ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! There are 53 members of the Riigikogu, but also Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski and Minister of Social Protection Kaia Iva. Attention! Today, I am giving an opportunity to ask a very specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U2	The first question is Krista Arult to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The grant for academic post-growth, i.e. doctoral student grant, has been EUR 422 since 2015. Everyone, both higher education institutions, but most certainly doctoral students, has been frustrated about this little support. At the end of last year, it was promised that the doctoral student allowance would be doubled. Unfortunately, this is not known to be done, but from 2018 the doctoral student grant will be EUR 633. For what reason were unsolicited promises initially made, and where did the money go, which was promised as doctoral allowance?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for this serious question. First of all, of the 422 euros you have referred to. It must be acknowledged that, indeed, for almost ten years, the doctoral student grant stood without change, it was some tens of euros below 400, and then in 2015 it rose by a few tens of euros to 422 euros. If we now look at the principles on which the current coalition works, I think that our promises and position are very clear on the support of doctoral students. We have agreed in the coalition agreement that the doctoral scholarship will be increased to ensure a high-quality follow-up in R &amp; D. Your question is certainly motivated by the fact that at the end of last year there was an opinion that it could double its head. You mentioned a sum of 633 here. In the final adoption of the state budget, the exact amount will be fixed in the Riigikogu; as far as I know, it will be slightly higher than 633 euros. The exact amounts were also identified by the government in the preparation of the country's budget strategy. We will certainly continue to maintain the principle that the support of doctoral students must be increased. Today, it can be clearly said that the country's budgetary strategy envisages an increase of EUR 5 million each year for the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U5	Krista Aru, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U6	Mr President! I'm going to continue with my PhD grant. In 2004, the doctoral student grant was 80% of the national average wage, which is 33,3% this year. And if the doctoral student grant can be raised to 633 by 2018, it will be 55% of the national average wage. What kind of message does it send to society? Margus Haidak, Head of the Department of Higher Education at the Ministry of Education and Research, comments that have also been published in the press, were that this money helps doctoral students, they work anyway. What, though, does such a message mean for our academic offspring?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U7	Thank you. I am absolutely sure that we must fully support and contribute to doctoral studies. It's not the percentages you brought in on your question, it's not an honor if it still falls to 33.3%, it's a bad thing. That is why the current government has set itself the goal of forcefully increasing this support. This percentage, which you have pointed out, may in the future be about 55% of the average salary 's tendency is, in any case, very strong in the direction of increasing the scholarship or support of doctoral students. I also think it is important that the increase is not a one-off increase, but that the country's budgetary strategy also provides money for the coming years. On the government side, I can assure you that we will do everything we can to find resources and contribute as much as possible to and increase the support of doctoral students. This is also demonstrated by the real fact, as you said yourself: the ratio to the average wage rises from 33% to 55%.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U8	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! In essence, doctoral studies are certainly very important strategically for a small country. My question concerns the Estonian University of Life Sciences and veterinary training and international competition. I've already asked you about this once. Have you been able to invite the Minister for Rural Affairs and the Minister for Education and Science to come to you and discuss this issue so that there is no situation in which the University of Life Sciences is forced to close veterinary training with its international accreditation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U10	Thank you. We have really been discussing and discussing this issue. I believe that today everyone is making an effort not to close any study programmes. But in the end, it is also a matter of the state budget, and the government will certainly make an effort to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U12	Next is Raivo Põldaru's question to Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Tallinn City Council has decided to build a new large hospital in Lasnamägi by 2025 called Tallinn Hospital, where the former two hospitals are connected. What is the Minister's opinion on the construction and concentration of such a hospital?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U14	Thank you, Honourable Asker. The short answer is that the Ministry of Social Affairs supports the establishment of the Tallinn Hospital. The longer answer is that already 15 years ago, when the optimal model of the Estonian hospital network was created with the involvement of both Estonian and foreign partners, it was found that there could be one hospital at the level of the central hospital in Tallinn instead of the current two central hospitals, the Western Tallinn Central Hospital and the East Tallinn Central Hospital. This is in addition to the regional hospital, North-Estonian Regional Hospital, and the special focus of Tallinn Children's Hospital. The new central hospital should perform not only the tasks of the central hospital but also the tasks of the general hospital in the areas of Tallinn and Harjumaa. I think this change could have been made a long time ago. This fragmentation of the health network in the capital of Estonia, the largest local government in Estonia and in the area of health care activity is not reasonable to maintain. Therefore, I am pleased that the city of Tallinn is also setting its own plans to start building a new hospital that connects the two existing central hospitals. Within this framework, we will also review the activities of maternity hospitals in cooperation with the state, the plan is to create a new centre based on North-Estonian Regional Hospital and Tallinn Children's Hospital. I think it's finally gonna be a good thing. But I'm sure it'll take a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U15	Raivo Põldaru, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I'd like to hear a little bit about whether you're seeing any problems with this construction, let's say, about the buildings that remain, about the frame. Have you begun your preparations? It is well - known that the number of beds is much higher than the number of beds in two hospitals today, and it is likely that more footage will be needed in such a situation. Since this unreasonable use of money has been common in hospitals all over Estonia lately in Pärnu and nearer here, do you not see any problems or opportunities to encounter problems here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U17	Thank you. First of all, I think the Tallinn Hospital project itself is an optimization project. Of course, the details will be revealed during the design process. I would point out that these are hospitals belonging to the city of Tallinn, i.e. they are not public hospitals. Both East-Tallinn Central Hospital and West-Tallinn Central Hospital are city hospitals and there will be Tallinn Hospital. The only public hospital in Tallinn is the Northern Estonian Regional Hospital. So for all the questions about how beds are planned, etc., the main responsibility is the city of Tallinn as the promoter of this project. However, the Ministry of Social Affairs legally confirms the so-called functional development plans of all hospitals in order to bring the state's health policy view to it. Of course, we are also prepared to discuss with the city of Tallinn the number of beds, the profile of different specialties. It certainly does not make sense for the new Tallinn Hospital to compete with the Northern Estonian Regional Hospital for certain narrow specialties. It's happening to some extent now. There could certainly be more of this division of labour in Tallinn. We have also met with representatives of the city of Tallinn. The works started already in 2016 and the detailed plan announced by Tallinn City Government is now in progress; the deadline for tenders is s. a June 19th. And when the plans are clarified there, we will certainly be ready to contribute with our strength and advice to ensure that the hospital is truly optimal, to meet patients' needs as well as population forecasts, both in terms of beds and in terms of the specialties to be planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U18	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! We all know that the health insurance fund is under a great deal of pressure and the cash flow is sufficiently negative given the potential need for services. You have clearly promised to reform the system here a year ago, including its governance. In Tallinn's current context, are you not afraid that if negotiations are conducted so leniently, it may happen that the existing resources will be overplanned and that the Tallinn Hospital will at one point become so large that it will exert pressure on the health insurance fund and adversely affect the medical system in Estonia as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U20	Thank you for your question. There is no doubt that we are making an effort to ensure that the hospital we are creating is optimal in terms of its volume and the provision of specializations. What I can say for sure today is that the necessary population projections for 2030 have been made by the Ministry of Social Affairs. We predict that the number of inhabitants in the Harjumaa region will increase and thus the number of patients will increase by about 2%. Therefore, given the relocation of the population within the Estonian state, it is actually necessary to increase the volume of service in the region. Of course, it is reasonable that this hospital should be designed to be optimal in order to ensure the financial sustainability of the hospital itself in the future. The health insurance fund's contracts for the use of public money in the provision of health care services are still based on the needs of our patients. If the hospital is over-dimensioned, it will be created more than the real need, then of course the Health Insurance Fund contract will not be able to cover the entire volume. This has also been said repeatedly to the representatives of the city of Tallinn, including myself personally to the assistant city head. So far, preparations have indeed been made in good cooperation, and I hope that this will continue to be the case. The functional development plan, which sets out these same volume forecasts, forecasts of specializations, is a document which I can endorse with my signature, and when it arrives at the Ministry of Social Affairs, of course we will talk through thoroughly and try to ensure that this project is financially sustainable and meets the real needs of patients in Tallinn and Harjumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U22	Maris Lauri's question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! The government is planning various tax changes that are likely to allow at least a reduction in tax burden. Inevitably, this means an increase in the deficit planned in the budget strategy. What are the specific sources of cover?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U24	Thank you. I completely reject the claim that the budget deficit is increasing as a result of certain tax changes. We have indeed decided in the government coalition that there will be no excise duty on packaging, there will not be a deposit tax, and we will increase the possibilities for completing joint declarations. Of course, we have also dealt with the sources of cover. Some of the main sources of coverage of this we have clearly stated in the media, too, are related to the administrative costs of the public sector. This does not concern, for example, the area of internal security, the External Action Service or constitutional institutions. We certainly want to review how public property can be used and managed more effectively. These are some examples of places where we can see the sources of the proposed tax changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U25	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U26	Thank you, Prime Minister. Your views on introducing or not imposing different taxes have been quite plastic and changed over time. Sometimes, if you cancel some taxes, it's very nice, but the new idea that arises may not be at all. Let me ask you the first question. I believe that the state's costs must be saved. What administrative costs at central government level, such as the economic costs of ministries, do you intend specifically to save?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U27	Thank you. The purpose of the savings is given separately to each Minister for Industry. Of course, we believe that administrative costs can be saved in every ministry today, and this is also one of the sources of withholding these taxes. These cuts certainly do not concern very important areas, which I have already pointed out: internal security, constitutional institutions, but also the External Action Service. These are places where administrative costs are not reduced by tax changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U28	Maris Lauri, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U29	Thank you. I'll come up with a little bit more. Thanks to the fact that our growth turned out to be higher than forecast, this will inevitably lead to an increase in the deficit by converting the structural deficit beyond what is currently stated in the national budget strategy, i.e. 0.5% will be larger and the European Commission's estimates will be 0.9% higher. What are you going to do to keep your promise?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U30	Thank you. We are based on what we have said about our monetary policy: Estonia's public finances are and must be in order; the budget rule that aims for structural balance will continue to keep our public finances in order. We are very responsible for these principles. This is also demonstrated by the fact that the country's budgetary strategy has already been seriously reviewed three times during this coalition: last November, this year and the last time the new chairman of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union wanted to review certain fiscal policy changes. In my opinion, the budget and the Estonian economy and tax policy have certainly gone in a better direction, and the government will finally hand over the budget to the Riigikogu in the second half of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U32	Monika Haukanõmme's question to Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We are proud to admit that we are an e-state. We have excellent solutions to make life easier for people, professionals and officials through the use of different databases, and it has certainly become much easier to move information. But the more we have different databases, the more important the quality and quantity of information in these databases will become. Since 2009, doctors have been legally obliged to carry epic crises into the health information system. Repeatedly, it has been pointed out that this is not what it should be. In particular, the implementation of the work capacity reform has revealed situations where data are not of sufficient quality, wrong decisions are made. For example, in the case of doctors, only 33% of bills are covered by epic crises, and in the case of psychiatrists they are questionable at all. What concrete steps will the Ministry take to ensure that data quality is improved in the health information system and that there is more data?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U34	Thank you very much. Indeed, this is a very important issue. It is true that the successful implementation of the work capacity reform has largely been based on a model whereby the need for a person to prove his or her previous health status, previous illness and other restrictions would be minimal, i.e. the information would automatically move from the health information system to the unemployment fund where the assessment of work ability is carried out. It is true that, even before the reform of the capacity to work has been implemented, and also now in the last year, when its implementation has begun, we have faced the challenge, or the expert doctors of the unemployment fund have faced a situation where the data on the health information system is often either inadequate or incomplete. What exactly are we doing in this situation? Firstly, for some time now, an IT development project to improve the data quality of the health information system has been underway. Its purpose is to specify the data in the information system, its content. On the other hand, it is of course necessary to ensure that doctors actually carry all the necessary information into the health information system. In recent times, when concerns have become more serious, especially with regard to patients with psychiatric diagnosis, in cooperation with the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, we have prepared a whole plan to improve this situation, how the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People can contribute to this and how the Ministry can contribute to this. But now my time has run out.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U35	Monika Haukanõmm, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You didn't really answer my question. The question was what exactly are you doing? Of course, family doctors need to improve the presentation of epic crises, etc., and different meetings have been held, but what are these concrete steps? Do you, for example, intend not to pay bills if a family doctor's or psychiatrist systematically fails to provide the information? Is there a decision on this? Or are there other options? Have you planned that, for example, clinical psychologists, logopedias and action rapes, who also play a very important role in the reform of work ability, would have access to the health information system? In fact, it is possible to take very concrete steps here. Why don't you give a particular example or tell us what was agreed with the House of Disabled People, what must one or the other do?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U37	Excellent! On 22 May 2017, the Ministry of Social Affairs met with representatives of the Chamber of People with Disabilities and discussed these issues. The following agreements were concluded: The Chamber of Disabled Persons meets its supporter, the Mental Disorders People's Support Organization Development Centre Avitus and the representatives of the Estonian Association of Mental Disabled People to clarify the expectations of working-age persons with mental disorders to solve data problems in the health information system. Secondly, the Chamber of People with Disabilities meets representatives of the Estonian Psychiatric Society to open up the impact and meaning of quality problems in health information system data in the process of assessing the working-age ability of people with mental disorders. The concern is that many psychiatrists say that they do not enter data to protect patients' interests in the health information system. People don't want to get a sign because it can have a negative effect on them. As the physician should be in the interests of the patient, this opinion is therefore common among many psychiatrists. We are trying to explain that it is actually the other way round that this step is detrimental to the interests of patients with special psychiatric needs, slow procedures, they may not get an adequate assessment through the unemployment fund, endless disputes follow, etc. This communication we will continue to do. Thirdly, the Ministry of Social Affairs transmits to the Chamber of People with Disabilities the aggregated statistics on what exists and what is missing from the data group on the health information system already established earlier in the Ministry of Social Affairs. Fourthly, the Ministry of Social Affairs prepares short instructions for family or specialist doctors on entering data into the health information system and forwards it to the Chamber of People with Disabilities. The House of Disabled people, in turn, distributes a brief guide to the target group. With this support, the applicant for an assessment of the ability to work can be instructed by a doctor. Fifthly, the new, broad-based health information system data problem group will not be set up, but the House of People with Disabilities will be involved to better address the situation. Now, speaking of accounts... Time's up again.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U38	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It is certainly a question of whether the incorrect execution of certain data or the lack of indication of the patient's interests are ultimately in the interests of the patient when certain decisions are to be made about him or her. If there is no information, I dare say these decisions may not be adequate. But in order to get to the doctor in the first place and assess their medical condition, there has also been talk about an e-registration system across the country. I would like to know how far it has come with a cross-Estonian e-registry in order to make the most of the free resources of the healthcare system in view of the capacities of different regions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U40	Thank you. The digital registration office does not improve the quality of the health information system data, but we will continue to work on it. I hope that by the end of this year we will reach the first pilotage in a couple of hospitals, and perhaps next year we will be able to expand it. Now what the Ministry of Social Affairs is doing to make doctors comply with the law. Indeed, the situation is exactly as a member of the Riigikogu Kruuse said that people suffer. When we look at the decisions of the unemployment fund that have been the most challenged, they relate to cases where the data on the health information system has been incomplete or incomplete and the expert doctor has not been able to make an adequate assessment. This has been followed by disputes that have wasted administrative time, but more importantly, of course, man himself has run and put himself in a difficult position. This is certainly neither reasonable nor necessary. The Ministry of Social Affairs has therefore initiated the monitoring of the monthly input of data, which compares medical bills forwarded by doctors to the health insurance fund by entering health stories into the health information system. If a mismatch is found in these data, the doctor will be contacted and informed of the obligation to submit data to the health information system, and it will explain why it is also necessary for his patients outside the health system to have other social welfare guarantees, benefits, aids and other services depending on how complete the data are. If this does not lead to significant improvement in the near future, we will certainly consider whether to include the Health Board, which is directly responsible for ensuring that the organisational standards for health care are met.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U42	Martin Helme's question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U43	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! In England, there have been three serious terrorist attacks over the last year, the last two have been very little apart, and although politically correct mainstream policy and mainstream media are cramped to avoid talking about it, this terror is, of course, directly related to Islam and Islamists, or immigrants. It is absolutely clear that Europe's external border is unguarded, that is what we are talking about from 2015 onwards. This means that the Schengen system does not work in its current form. I think that the people of Estonia, as well as the wider public, would like to hear the clear confirmation from our Prime Minister that our government is capable of doing something to protect us. In this regard, I have a simple question. Is the government also politically prepared to re-establish border controls at the internal borders of the European Union, namely to re-establish control of ports and airports? Do we have the ability to do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U44	Thank you, good questioner! I will start by answering your question naturally with sympathy, compassion for the seven people who died on this tragic day and those who were injured in the June 3 attack. The Prime Minister is certainly ready to stand up for people to move freely so that capital can move freely in business and our products and services can move freely. This is one of the main ideas at all in Schengen and in the European Union, and it must be fought for, regardless of what the mainstream media or some other stream of media write. I think that what we have built together today in foreign policy has a very high value. To be honest, I cannot imagine that all 27 or 28 Member States will close their borders. I don't think it's gonna do anything to fight terrorism or terrorists either. What is our lesson? Our lesson is certainly that information exchange, data exchange, cooperation at international level and within the country can be improved. Let it be the better surveillance of the European Union's external borders, whether it be a strong inhibition of terrorism and the financing of terrorist organisations, let it be more active cooperation with our partners and allies. I will certainly come back to the other part of your question if you give it a chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U45	Martin Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U46	Thank you. Sure, I will. I would sum this up so that I fully understood your response that our government does not have the political readiness to restore border controls. I ask whether you really think free border crossings are more valuable than protecting human lives, because this is the place of choice. And I ask whether you really think that it costs more to pass on the border than to maintain our security. Schengen is not about free movement around the world. The Schengen border is open now, and everyone who wants it will come. This is not Schengen's idea. The idea of Schengen is free movement within the European Union. And now that Europe has failed, as Prime Minister of Estonia, you will not be able to guard the European border. You can give an order to take control of the Estonian border. I have a simple question: do we have this ability when the decision comes?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U47	Thank you, good questioner! I think you should first find out who belongs to Schengen and who is not. You are rhetorically strong on your question, of course, by linking this terrible and tragic terrorist act and the cases of terrorism to the fact that we have no internal borders within the European Union or within Schengen. I really don't see a way to bring the parallels you're producing. In answer to your question: since 21 December 2007 border control has been temporarily restored in Estonia on two occasions. One case involved a meeting of NATO Foreign Affairs Ministers in April 2010, and the other was by the time of the visit of the then President of the United States, Obama, in 2014. Does the Estonian state have the capacity to temporarily re-establish border control if necessary? It is not a question of liking or dislike, but actually depends on risk assessments. While risk assessments indicate the need for this, the Police and Border Guard Board will be able to re-establish border controls temporarily within a short period of time. Yes, this capacity exists in the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U48	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U49	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! What you said about being able to restore such a circus can be done with a maximum of two to three days of border guard resources left by the destruction of your predecessors. You could see that now in Valga. Just don't explain to me that it's possible to close with the Defence League and anyone else's help, because I saw Obama's visit as the defence allies stood on the road and smoked. No one controlled the border between the two roads, and no one understood that it needed to be checked. How do you plan to eliminate this state-made crime disorder so that the Estonian border, including the southern border, can be controlled when the need arises?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U50	Thank you, Mr Uno Kaskpeit, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I'm really confused now. On the one hand, I see how powerful the EKRE and the Reform Party are working together, see a common perspective, and on the other, I hear you say that this is the result of the destruction of our predecessors. Can you really get a minus out of this plus so fast? But I really hope that the strong cooperation that the Reform Party and the EKRE have today is good, will take Estonia's political culture forward, and you will both stand up for important issues, such as the restoration of borders within the European Union. I have heard that you are also planning to put the European Union's question to the vote within Estonia. I don't know whether it's just the two of us or alone, but it's not a bad thing if we find such common elements in Estonian politics, it's a question of what subjects. I will answer you once again and assure you that it is not worth seeing danger in this sense. If the risk assessments show that border controls are needed, Estonia will be able to re-establish it temporarily. If border control needs to be fully restored, then Estonia is certainly ready for this, but it already requires much more investment, much more human strength. And, as I said, it would mean moving away from the basic idea or the source of the free movement that Schengen and the European Union give us. I see no reason today, no reason to build walls within Europe, not bridges.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U52	And as ordered, the next question is from Kristen Michal to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U53	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! The clarity of the country's direction is part of a culture of governance. The public needs clarity as to the actual position of the central party leading the government on the NATO-US partnership. The message of Mikhail Stalnukhin, who was entrusted to lead one of the most important committees in the Riigikogu, was yesterday that the US was not a reliable partner. Since I assume that you will now speak fluently another story, I would rather ask who, in this case, will be represented yesterday by Stalnukhin and Korb, Loone, Repinski, Kravtšenko, Novikov, Dmitriev and Velman, the Chairman of the Monetary Commission, who sneaked away from the vote on the Defence Cooperation Agreement with the United States.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U54	Thank you. First of all, I'm glad that Kristen Michal is back in briefing. I have seen you play a very active part here a few times, and I think that our debates with you have always been substantive and constructive. So thank you very much for taking the initiative again in this Question Time! Estonia is a strong supporter of NATO membership; Estonia is an active NATO member state. For us, it is important that 29 countries do everything they can to ensure peace in these countries. This is certainly one of NATO's main objectives. From this direction, I very much hope, no future government, but certainly this government will not deviate. This ally relationship we build every day. The fact that Tapa is currently soldiers from NATO Member States, both from the UK and France, who are rotating with the Kingdom of Denmark shows how actively Estonia has contributed to NATO and how important Estonia considers it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U55	Kristen Michal, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U56	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! I never got the answer to who they represent. But I have another question. When the government headed by the Centre Party took office, I remember the Russian ambassador said on the news that they were looking forward to good cooperation with the Estonian Government. I received a public invitation to the Russian embassy's conversation to clear my unfounded fears after I had mentioned in the Kapo Yearbook as the leading politician of the Central Party, Mikhail Kõlvart. I have a simple question: how often do the leading politicians of the Central Party meet with representatives of the Russian embassy in Tallinn, Ida-Virumaa, and what topics are discussed there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U57	Thank you. In any case, I commend you first of all to keep the Estonian flag high and not to be pushed off this path. How often do I meet ambassadors from other countries residing in Estonia? There have been bilateral meetings with the French ambassador, the Italian ambassador, the United States. If you ask about the Russian ambassador, there is such a custom at the Stenbock House that the Prime Minister will meet with all the ambassadors residing in Estonia at the same time, and, as I recall, at the end of last year, this meeting was also the Ambassador of the Russian Federation. There have been no more such meetings, nor have there been bilateral meetings.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U58	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! In fact, you did not answer the first question of a good colleague. Maybe it's because these ambassadors haven't had to listen under the blanket to the American voice to find out what's going on in the free world. In fact, it's embarrassing that you didn't dare take a stand about it. But here's what I'm asking you: the whole public knows that the Centre Party has two faces, if at one point this other side gets the majority, what will our relationship with the United States be like?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U60	Thank you. I'm glad you know the inner life of another party so well, but this is where you're wrong. The Centre Party is one-faced, the Centre Party has a clear view of the world. When we are talking about the dimension of foreign and defence policy, we have strongly supported the fact that Estonia is a Member State of the European Union as well as NATO and is also involved in other international cooperation projects, be it the introduction of the euro, whether it is the recent government's desire to join the European Union with those Member States wishing to cooperate more in the field of defence policy (I am referring to PESCO). So this has been the direction of the Centre Party. Of course, our direction in domestic politics is that we want Estonia's development to be more balanced. If you ask me what the worldview of the Centre Party is, I'm happy to introduce you here. The Centre Party is in opposition, I think I have not been wrong for ten years about the fact that people with low or medium incomes have to earn more. I am pleased that this government has undertaken and carried out a tax reform, an increase in the tax-free minimum from EUR 180 to EUR 500. I am pleased that we are doing everything we can to allocate additional money to health care and health insurance and that the treatment queues in Estonia are actually shortening. I am certainly also pleased that I think that cooperation with you has been extremely good. You have raised rural and agricultural issues on several occasions, and there are clear progress in this area too, such as top-up payments. Estonia's clearly balanced progress and development is certainly one of the core positions of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U61	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U62	Jaak Madison's question to Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U63	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! In recent days, there has been a strong controversy over the work of children in the summer, especially as Leafmen, and around whether the Labour Inspectorate has gone too far and it is over-regulation, or whether it still protects children's rights. Here's my first question. Maybe you have some background material and more information about what's really been going on there? I have heard information from both sides and, in fact, this situation is not so black and white, but rather cloudy and bordering. The second question could be this: do you see the danger that these well-intentioned decisions or mandatory guidelines for employers, even for the Express Group, could actually reduce the opportunities for children and young people to earn pocket money in the summer and get work habits that should be elementary in the course of each person's development?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U64	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Firstly, if you may, I would ask that you, as a known person, as the vice-chairman of the European Union Affairs Commission, maybe you will explain to your benchmate that Britain does not belong to Schengen, and maybe you will also explain that the people who carried out terrorist attacks in Britain have lived in Britain and have not crossed the border. You can certainly also explain that the majority of cross-border crime in Europe is discovered not at the borders, but within countries, in cooperation with police authorities from different countries, which in the European Union, including within the Schengen system, are working better and better on a regular basis. But now answer your question. Indeed, in recent times, the impression that the state is in principle seeking to prohibit the work of the Leafmen has also been the result of one press publication. No, I don't! Nobody's ever had that idea, and they're not coming. It is natural, right and logical, however, that when minors are recruited, just as when all other people are recruited, the current labour law and safety standards, the rules and laws adopted by the legislator are complied with. These same rules, to a large extent due to the various international child protection obligations, impose quite strict restrictions on the recruitment of children aged 7 to 12 due to their age characteristics. Indeed, as of last year, Ekspress Group is subject to one of the misdemeanour proceedings initiated by the Labour Inspectorate, as this company has violated labour law. They've tried to challenge it somehow. I ran out of time again, but I'd be happy to keep answering if you ask again.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U65	Jaak Madison, the question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U66	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! First of all, I have a suggestion that you stick to your grids. You were asked about the activities of the Labour Inspectorate, you should not spend half the time allocated to dealing with other issues that are not within your competence. But quickly to answer you: Britain's cases prove that it is precisely immigration that is a very big problem, especially immigration from foreign cultural spaces, such as Muslim countries, whose second and third generation descendants radicalise and do not fit into our society. Secondly, last year's terrorist attacks in both Belgium and France were perpetrated by individuals who, thanks to the Schengen visa space, moved freely within the Member States of the European Union and went repeatedly to Libya to get training. The same was found for those who committed attacks in Great Britain. So there is no point in demagogating or lying and justifying immigration policy, which has failed, forever through the so-called 'left-liberal agenda'. But here's my question about the right subject. Our goal is to protect children absolutely! The example is very good, but it is also a personal one. Where did you work as a child and where did you get your first work experience?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U67	Thank you. By continuing to answer the previous question, indeed, the recruitment of children aged 7 to 12 has some limitations in specific work and in specific areas. One of the most important restrictions is that they can work for up to three hours a day. This is an international restriction and the legislator has taken over this legal space in Estonia. When we are talking about this particular procedure, the situation is as follows. The procedure has been initiated on complaints from the police, parents and fellow citizens. I'm going to read you the contents of a complaint. 'The boy said he took leaves from the leafhouse in the morning, moved by public transport to Järve and started selling there at 8:00 a.m. By the time I went to lunch, the child had been working for 5.5 hours. The boy explained that he earns pocket money and that his parents are aware of it. By the time the job was finished, the boy said at 5 p.m., because he has to get to the paperhouse before 5:30 p.m., because then the paper house will be closed. ' This means that the working day of this young person, a seven-year-old child, lasted ten hours that day. This ten hours is also written in the purchase and sale contract that the Express Group entered into with the parent of the child, although the purchase and sale contract may not be concluded in this case, it is a contract of employment relationship. The fact that Ekspress Group has implemented 7-year-old children for ten-hour working days without a contract of employment is a very gross violation of the legal system in force in Estonia. The Labour Inspectorate has said that friends, these people can do this job, if the conditions are guaranteed, we will agree on this, this issue can be resolved. But this, of course, means that children's rights must be protected, there is no other option here. The state has a higher duty to protect children's interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U68	Urmas Kruuse, clarification question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! From a newspaper boy to a millionaire, there are certainly more examples in America. Since you have gone so nicely to help your honourable colleague the Prime Minister, I can ask you, under this question, how do you feel about the members of the Central Party Group who did not vote in favour of a cooperation agreement with the United States?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U70	Thank you. This question is now completely out of the question, but I will take this opportunity to continue talking about the Leafmen. Thank you for this opportunity. Once again, in this situation, the Labour Inspectorate has followed the law adopted by the legislator. Recently, the Riigikogu has, on the proposal of the Ministry of Social Affairs, amended the requirements for the recruitment of minors, simplifying it. We intend to launch an additional measure to motivate employers to recruit minors. We will motivate them financially, such support through the unemployment fund will come soon. We really want and consider it right that minors receive their first work experience during school holidays. I think it's right and good. But here, of course, we are talking primarily about children who are 12 to 18 years old, their physical and mental abilities make it considerably better. In the case of children aged between 7 and 12, as has been said, both in Estonian law and according to international regulations, the restrictions are the strictest and can only work three hours a day. We have also said, to press publications, that we will come and agree on how to use the website as a tool in the performance of their tasks. This is, in principle, possible, even though, under labour law and for the protection of children, it is justified to use older children, starting from the age of 12. However, in their case too, we are willing to admit that to some extent it can be classified as advertising, but in this case it must be very clearly regulated so that the interests of both children and the interests of employers are protected. A specific example is a very serious violation of labour law. Instead of admitting it and trying to find a positive solution, a war has begun against the Labour Inspectorate, who simply follows the law in force in the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U71	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U72	Honourable Riigikogu and Honourable Ministers! This vigilante, who will give a signal, will be able to put a question to the Minister within one minute. It should start by stating first the name of the minister to whom the question is addressed, and the minister will have two minutes to reply. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U73	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I would like to return to the conversation with the Prime Minister on border guards. As Mr Madison has already pointed out, we all know what Schengen countries are and how this border crossing is going. The problem is wider and very serious. I am truly amazed that our current government and your Prime Minister do not seem to report at all how serious this problem is and how freely millions of people, many of whom are hostile to Europe and within Europe, move freely. In England, we are talking about 20,000 people under special security. We know that Estonia's security authorities are also currently monitoring the Islamic backgrounds here. In Estonia, too, this problem is quite real. We know that there is a very high level of traffic between Finland and Sweden. We have the capacity to restore the border guard for two or three days, but if it is necessary to restore it for two months, for example, does Estonia also have this capacity?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U74	Thank you. Don't be confused! You mentioned refugees and their arrival in Europe. I believe you mean the European Union in particular. It is certainly solidarity that we have built on and continue to rely on. We are based on what the European Union has said: we are jointly and severally helping those people who are indeed war refugees, who have chosen the path of escape not to profit economically, but because there is war in their area, and it must be escaped in order to survive. The European Union certainly does not sit back. First of all, as I said, strengthening the external borders is a priority. On the other hand, I point out that the European Union has made efforts to conclude certain agreements with countries outside the European Union, such as Turkey. You asked how much it would cost. If we start restoring the Estonian-Latvian border in the form it was, say, before joining the Schengen visa space, it will require certain investments: cordon, border points and opening them with the necessary infrastructure. There is certainly a need to recruit several hundred additional officials and, of course, their annual salary and annual cost will also have to be taken into account in this case. If you ask how much it costs, for example, to manage a smaller cordon or border crossing point per year, it costs approximately EUR 200000 per year to restore a single cordon or border crossing point.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U75	I will conclude on this issue. Another member of the Riigikogu with a rapid reaction was Kristen Michal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U76	Thank you, good Chairman. I have a question for Mr Ossinovski. Since you have not answered Mr Kruus' question, I repeat that. As Chairman of the Social Democratic Party, do you consider it a problem that a third of the Central Party Group did not vote yesterday on the Defence Cooperation Agreement with the United States, and Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of one of the most important committees, gave a message that the US is not a reliable partner. What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U77	My view is that the US is a reliable and important partner. The Social Democrats support defence cooperation with the US, including the same cooperation agreement, which was demonstrated yesterday.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U78	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Last week, you were very passionate about being here for the protection of Secretary of Finance Sven Sester, and now it looks like he's still being replaced. My question is, what is such an inconsistency in the government's positions and what is really changing in monetary policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U80	Thank you. I'm sure you know IRL's inner life and certain personalities better than I do, but it's true that I really respect the current Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, as well as the entire office. I fully agree that the team works well when there is trust between the team members. And also when among them is the desire to make decisions, not to postpone them and not to make decisions. This government office has this trust, and there is a desire to make decisions. I think that the principles that the current government has agreed to come out of economic stagnation, see economic growth again in Estonia, give people the opportunity to earn more net income, solve the health care issue, pension reform, make parental benefits more flexible, give a new impetus to the agricultural sector, certainly Sven Sester has done a good job here. The decisions of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, as one of the coalition's parties in terms of personality, will be decided within the party. This has been good practice in Estonian political culture. But, of course, the Prime Minister always has the opportunity to say his final word, yes or no.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U81	In this frivolous knowledge, Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U82	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the plenary session on Wednesday at our 17th working week. The President of the Riigikogu continues to be prepared to adopt drafts and enquiries. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U83	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs, I am handing over the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. The purpose of this draft is to remove the incompatibility with §§ 12, 31 and 32 of the Constitution under the conditions of unemployment and unemployment benefit for the head of the company. To this end, the draft sets out the differences between the conditions under which the head of the company who lost his or her job is registered as unemployed, in order to enable him or her to receive assistance in finding a new job and unemployment benefit and unemployment benefit when looking for a job. In addition, for the purposes of equal treatment of economic operators, the draft also lays down the conditions for registering self-employed persons and their spouse participating in the activities of the company.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U84	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U85	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to hand over the draft Act supplementing § 341 of the Road Traffic Act. The aim of the draft is to increase the efficiency of road transport. According to the draft, the regulation on the specific transport of rough round wood will be extended to other types of transport. According to the draft, the cargo to be shared as a special transport operation may be transported under the conditions laid down in Regulation 114 of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure of 2015 when the special transport operation is carried out by a combination of vehicles which is part of the EURO V or of a less polluting EURO emission class. In addition, with the exception of the steered axle, all axles of vehicles in the combination are equipped with paired wheels and the actual mass of the combination does not exceed 48 tonnes for the 6-axle combination and 52 tonnes for the 7- or more axles. The special carriage takes place on the road network designated by the road owner, and the road owner may also impose additional conditions for the special carriage. The amendment will have a positive impact on the road transport sector, as it will enable the efficiency of transport and thus the competitiveness of the industry to be increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U86	If anyone came up with a question of who is the initiator of the draft, then this is the initiator of the Committee on Economic Affairs. There's no more calls. I have adopted two draft laws. The Governing Board shall appoint a commission to them, provided that they comply with the requirements of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, presence control, please! 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present. Honourable Riigikogu! Today's agenda contains a few clarifications regarding the co-rapporteurs. In the 328 debates on our sixth item, Raivo Aeg, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, will make a presentation. During the debate on item 14, Aivar Kokk, President of the Committee, will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs of a draft 434.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U87	Our first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Estonian Central Register of Securities Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Maris Lauri Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U88	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This is basically a good law. There are no complaints at all and we could vote. But there's one paragraph in there and one point that got there in the process. I'm not talking about the substance of this section, I'm talking about the principle. The principle is that a subject has appeared in the draft, which is absolutely not related to the content of this draft. This should have come to the debate as a separate draft. Nor is this subject so burning that it should have been dealt with so forcefully in this bill. It is therefore genuinely bad practice, and that is why the Reform Party is not taking part in the vote. To clarify, when someone starts to say that it has been the case before. We're grown-up people, we shouldn't use kindergarten claims that someone else did before. And secondly, if this is a bad thing and not the best thing that came out before, it does not mean that we should continue to do the same now and in the future. Each of us has the opportunity, if we are the practitioners, to reject such ideas and avoid them, but if they are pushed in, to always state our position. I've always done it, and I've got a clean heart in that sense. Now I really hope we all act that way. So, as I said, this is our group's protest against bad practice. We don't see any reason why it had to be like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U89	There is no further wish for negotiations, I will close the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 428. Honourable Riigikogu, since draft 428 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership to be adopted as a law, according to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, please perform the verification of presence! There are currently 87 members of the Riigikogu. I am voting on the draft law amending the Central Register of Securities Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 428. Please take a stand and vote. There were 52 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 428, with 7 abstentions. The Act amending the Estonian Central Register of Securities Act and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U90	The second item is the draft Act on the ratification of Protocol 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 408. The rapporteur is Ms Liisa Oviir, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U91	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft Act on ratification of Protocol 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms was initiated by the Government of the Republic. a March 20th. The first reading took place on 19 April and the deadline for amendments was 4 May. No proposals were received at that time, nor did the Committee on Legal Affairs propose amendments. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft second reading at a meeting on 16 May, in which Maris Kuurberg, the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, participated, in addition to its members. The Commission explained the way in which the various parties would be involved in the consultation procedure before the European Court of Human Rights under Article 3 of Protocol 16 to the Convention. The individual complaint also specified the issue of referral to the European Court of Human Rights. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided by consensus to put the draft on the agenda for the second reading of the plenary session of the Riigikogu by 7 June, to propose that the second reading be closed and put to the final vote. According to section 115 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the draft law concerning the foreign contract is discussed as a rule in two readings. The draft Act on the ratification of Protocol 16 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption, as the adoption of the draft will have a significant impact on the regulation of our legal proceedings. The amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure are set out in draft 404.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U92	Thank you. Questions for the waitress, please! No questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments were tabled, we will go to the final vote. The Honourable Riigikogu, the Home and Working Procedures Act again requires us to check our presence, as this is a bill that requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership to be adopted. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered. I am voting on the draft Act on the ratification of Protocol 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 408. Please take a stand and vote. There were 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 408, with 7 abstentions. The Act on ratification of Protocol 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U93	Our next item is the third reading of Bill 404 of the Act amending the Code of Civil Procedure and other Acts initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 404. Dear Riigikogu, can we go to the final vote? This bill, too, requires a majority of its component members to be adopted as a law. Please, let's do the presence check! 89 members of the Riigikogu are present. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft law 404 amending the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There are 82 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 404, with 7 abstentions. The law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U94	Third reading of Draft Explosives Act 418 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft explosives law initiated by the Government of the Republic 418. Please take a stand and vote. There were 82 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting draft 418, with no abstentions against 7. And that's how the Law on Explosives was passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U95	Now we begin the first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal to the Government of the Republic to amend the "Estonian Forest Development Plan until 2020" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. In the name of the initiators, the waitress is Küllik's Hatter. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U96	Good Chairman! Good Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U97	I'm sorry, Külliiki! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U98	Thank you. On 13 April this year, the Group of the Free Party launched a draft decision that we propose to the Government that we move to amend 'Estonian Forest Development Plan until 2020' as a matter of urgency. The need to change the current development plan already during this year has given rise to social concerns about deficiencies in the balanced management of Estonian natural resources and thinking about the future. People are increasingly mobile in their way of life. The eyes are open and we see what has happened to the national wealth, or forest, mentioned in our constitution in recent years. The so - called chessboards along the highways have raised many questions, misunderstandings, and even anxiety. We can say that in society the limit of tolerance has been exceeded. It's a big deal. It is our duty, Parliament, to meet the expectations of the people and to close the social divide created by the authorities. If we do not do so, we will act irresponsiblely and give the people a signal: we are not interested in your opinions and concerns. We are talking about the Estonian forestry development plan. This document is endorsed by the Riigikogu. On the basis of the development plan, a nine-year vision of trends in forestry will be developed. It provides for a large volume of questionable logging of timber, estimated at 12 to 15 million cubic metres per year on the basis of the current development plan. Good Riigikogu! We can already see by visual observation that the volume of logging has clearly gone too far. Why am I talking about visual observation? The reason is very simple: the forestry sector is one of the few, which is a very closed system in terms of the availability of its data. When preparing the bill, there was a lot of surfing on the Internet, opening links between different institutions. There is no interactive database where even quarterly figures would be aggregated on an ongoing basis. Forestry is an area whose indicators can be found in the annual books of different institutions. I would argue that such a blind system is one of the reasons why there are serious doubts about the volume of logging in society. We don't really know what's going on in our country. Secondly, the issue of the volume of felling is problematic, because the decision on the possibility of felling must be based on the growth of the forest, the calculation of which is undisputed between scientists. Unfortunately, we have the calculations of researchers at the University of Tartu, we have the calculations of the Estonian University of Life Sciences and we even have the calculations of the Ministry of the Environment. There are quite large scissors between them to create confusion and distrust of the whole system. You know, it's high time we nailed all the computers and other interested parties in one building for a week, so they can finally reach the long-awaited consensus. Agree methods for calculating forest growth! If you are unable or unwilling to do so, you have said again: we are not interested in the concern of society! We just like to fight because that's what Estonians do. Please make a deal! This is vitally important; it is necessary for the sake of both the forest and human health and peace of mind. And this agreement must have been reached before the forestry development plan for the next period, which is expected to be completed next year. A common understanding of the calculation of forest resources is therefore already necessary because a mature forest is not an instant, a rapidly renewable resource. This is the result of continuous work of at least two generations. And we really want to have a fully-fledged forest, which is our cultural, social and also economic foundation. Thirdly, with regard to the volume of felling, it is worrying that all forests, be they strictly protected, with minor management restrictions or freely managed forests, have been put together. According to the Free Party, it is essential to take this distribution into account when calculating forest growth. That would be responsible. We need to understand that logging pressures are greatest in managed forests. But then the growth of the forest must also be calculated in terms of the forests that are managed, not even the forests that are under strict protection. Otherwise, it is an obvious self-deception that we are cutting our finger with. And that goes for future generations. Fourthly, felling volumes and forest growth must be calculated by species of trees: birch and spruce, alder and pines and other species. Why is it so important? So that there is no overhaul and a distorted picture of forest resources. The data even exists somewhere, but the citizen can't get it. I recall that similar proposals have been made by the National Audit Office years ago, but this has remained the voice of the howl sea. Oh, I'm sorry, not on the sea of howls, but on the log of the forest abandoned as a result of the raid. Fifthly, 51% of Estonia is covered with forest, 44% of which belongs to the Estonian state, which manages it through the State Forest Management Centre (RMK). The rest of the forest is owned by private owners. In the development plan, we read among the lines a disparaging attitude towards the ability of private forest owners to manage their forests. Listen, it is a real failure of the Riigikogu that such an undertone has been approved in this Chamber in its own time! On the contrary, a private forest owner usually manages his property with a soul. He makes decisions based on the objective of constantly being able to obtain so-called harvest. Of course, there are also bad examples in every area of activity, but we must not make such a generalisation about our people. It is proposed by the Free Party that the development plan must take account in particular of the activities of private forest owners when allocating felling volumes between the state and private forest owners. RMK's felling volume is based on previous year's felling volumes that private forest owners have been able to obtain. Here is the proposal of the Free Party: a more modest limitation on the volume of felling should be imposed than the current development plan has 12 to 15 million cubic metres per year. Our wish is to freeze cutting volumes before the adoption of the new development plan, limiting it to 10 million cubic metres per year. We are ready to talk about smaller volumes, but in order to comply with the principle of balancing forest management, the volume of felling should be estimated at 7 to 10 million cubic metres. We can allow more than 10 million cubic metres per year to be cut if there is agreement between the parties concerned on the methods for calculating the increase, if we know clearly the volume of felling by species of wood and if a common understanding of the size of forest resources and the possibilities for using them has been reached in society. Sixthly, discussions on tax changes in recent months in this Chamber have confirmed the trend that the government is looking in every possible way for millions of euros in order to implement the electoral promises of government departments quickly before the elections. RMK has also been put in front of this wagon and, unfortunately, this has been the case for years. However, this time the arrangements from RMK to scrape the money into the joint boiler of the budget have been considerably tightened. If until now RMK's revenue from the Treasury has been received just under EUR 20 million, then for the following years it has been ordered to find at least EUR 33 million. Ethical question: can the forest, as our constitutional property, be a place of revenue for the state that serves merely the purpose of fulfilling political electoral promise? I don't think you can do that. And this pressure on RMK must be stopped. Good ambassadors! I will mark a few more observations regarding the current development plan. As we have all acknowledged, the development plans adopted in Estonia have remained a rather bureaucratic obligation. They have been designed in such a way that there is no clear understanding of how the development plans will be implemented and what they will cost. Of course, questions remain as to where resources come from to implement everything. This is generally the case with the forestry development plan. But what is particularly striking is the presentation of estimates and sometimes emotions, there are no clear and validated analyses. What is positive is that huge shortcomings in the scientific approach are recognised, but there is no record of how this problem will be addressed. There is no holistic approach. The handwritings of the authors of different texts do not add up; everyone wants to send a message, but you cannot directly. But this is not a collection of different authors; it is a development plan for the use of Estonian natural resources. I want to confirm that the development plan for the next period will be more knowledgeable and based on a more solid understanding that it does not depreciate anyone and creates opportunities for diverse forest management. Good Riigikogu! Briefly, too, from the pressure of logging, which we can all observe while driving on Estonian roads. A full forest is not a renewable resource in ten years. As I have already said, this is the result of at least two generations of consistent work, and we must bear that in mind. Unfortunately, the forest has become a direct business object. This is contrary to the current development plan, which states that the diverse and efficient use of forest requires a long-term perspective and that at least half of the forest must be updated in the areas of innovation cutting. At the moment, however, we are watching as Members of Parliament the violation of the law on sustainable development, which states in Paragraph 5 (4) that economic activity must not be designed to exceed the size of the margin available. As I have pointed out, we cannot talk about credible orders of magnitude unless there is a broad agreement on the methods of calculation to be carried out and the figures to be provided are currently not covered. This situation leaves room for constant violations of the law. As our legislator, we must not allow this situation to continue. It is not yet strongly perceived, but there is a pretty big battle going on in industry because of forest resources. The pulp and pellet industries require fine logs, i.e. non-mature timber, but the lumber industry primarily uses full, ripe logs. The current hasty logging decisions will at some point also pay off the industry itself. From wooden houses that have brought fame to Estonia, we can wipe our mouths clean. We can also wipe our mouths clean of our traditional natural environment and our management environment. What we see in Europe is happening. The country after the country has been wiped out in the dusk of history. There are fields everywhere that are more profitable in their climate than in our climate, but the forest could be more profitable in Estonia. Is that what we want? I don't want to, and I invite you not to. We must be proud that it is because of its forests that Estonia is a unique country that deserves to be visited. The role of the Free Party in this matter may be asked. We do not want to descend into any extreme. We are not in favour of speaking or defending. We're not in favour of a bullshit chase. We are in favour of diversified, balanced and sustainable forest management. We certainly believe that we must trust our people and, above all, as a country, create preconditions and opportunities for reasonable self-realisation. To do this, we must jointly ensure open and reliable governance, which requires open dialogue and one information room. This condition has not yet been met. Above all, we feel the information monopoly from government agencies and the incitement of prejudice. We must jointly break the unnecessary bureaucratic barriers. Do our legislative changes really mean the owner's responsibility for maintaining natural resources? Last week, the government adopted a painful decision that shows the attitude of state rulers toward forest owners. Once again, budgetary resources are being reduced for those forest owners who want to abandon forests with severe constraints. Owners will have the opportunity to dispose of it to the State on the basis of a land application, but the procedure for applications received will last an average of eight to nine years. This is not a reasonable period of time for the state to provide answers to its citizens. The Chancellor of Justice reminded us here last autumn that the government is currently clearly violating the Constitution. And that is what we ourselves are doing indirectly, because we are approving the state budget. So far, this inadequacy is justified by the lack of budget money. After the Chancellor of Justice's position, all members of the government coalition confirmed the improvement of the situation by answering questions, both in briefings and in other formats, in this Chamber. Now they say the money is more and the problem is going to work out in a couple of years. But it didn't exist. Once again, the process of processing the applications for the transfer of immovable property was watered down and the money hoped for was nipped away. The proposal of the Free Party to change the development plan and the ability to review the felling volumes reflects our respect and, in a sense, our humility to such a large and powerful natural resource as our dignified and diverse forest. Good ambassadors! The Free Party Group invites all of you to support the accelerated revision of the "Estonian Forest Development Plan 2020." In doing so, we need to achieve a situation where we have a common set of information and data on forestry. These data must become public and tracked on an ongoing basis. We must ensure reliable and responsible forest management by both RMK and private forest owners. We must also think about future generations that Western European countries have not been able to do. Learn from the mistakes of others! Changing the current development plan should improve the quality of the development plan for the next period, and this may also lead to a broad agreement on how to manage forests. I call on you all to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U99	Thank you. Before we go to the questions, I will remind you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, of what you may know anyway, but just in case. In the case of a draft decision containing a proposal to the Government of the Republic, you have the opportunity to ask each of the two rapporteurs a question. Please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U100	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! More than 20 years ago, this hall passed the law on sustainable development and uses terms such as 'critical stock' and 'usable stock' for renewable natural resources. The margin to be used is what's left over from the critical reserve. The Government of the Republic was obliged to define such matters. To this day, it has not been done for any reason, even though water has flowed into the sea for over 20 years. While the Prime Minister was Ansip and the Minister of the Environment was Reiljan, it was introduced for peat, but it expired last year's New Year's Eve. Should such a thing be required of the government in the case of the forest?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U101	Thank you, very good question! Indeed, the law on sustainable development is just a little over a page and a half long. It's not very voluminous, and it could be adhered to. I agree with the questioner's assessment that it is simply not desirable to do so, and I also agree that this would make sense in the case of forestry. As I said in my report, we are in an unreasonable situation: we are an IT state, but we are not in a position to get the figures from a single specific database on forestry on an ongoing basis, so these are the age of the forest by type of wood or, for example, the volume of felling by bond and assortment. Everything needs to be checked out in different yearbooks. The website of Statistics Estonia has different sources, one system is missing. And that is why it is very important that all critical stocks and planned stocks are clearly defined.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U102	No further questions. Thank you. The rapporteur from the Commission is Andres Metsoja, member of the Committee on the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U103	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed the proposal to the Government of the Republic to amend the "Estonian Forestry Development Plan until 2020" on 16 May 2017. Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Environment Marku Lamp, Head of the Forest Department of the same Ministry Riina Martverk, Counsellor of the Legal Department Merike Laidvee and, of course, representative of the Group of the Estonian Free Party Külmiki Kübarsepp were also invited to the meeting of the committee. Külliiki Kübarsepp noted that the draft was initiated by the Estonian Free Party Group on 13 April, for all the reasons which he also pointed out here today. He stressed that the concerns of the Estonian forestry development plan are highly estimated figures and the lack of transparency of national arguments. It is therefore proposed that an interim review of the forestry development plan be made before next year. In particular, the volume of felling should be reviewed so that private forest owners are also taken into account. The development plan identifies shortcomings in the actual realisation of cutting opportunities for private forest owners. Thus, the State should maintain its cutting capacity at an optimal level and logging should not be a mechanism for the implementation of the state budget. The development plan states that spruce growth and felling volumes are in balance, but in accordance with the principle of sustainable forest management, this principle should be respected for all tree species. The forestry development plan should also set out the principle that the average felling volume over the last four years, i.e. 10 million cubic metres per year, will remain in force. If more is cut, it will be at the expense of future generations. The Commission also held a discussion. The chairman asked when the Ministry of the Environment would prepare a new development plan. Vice Chancellor Marku Lamp replied that new ideas were already being gathered for this purpose and that trouble spots were being marked. It was also noted that the development plan takes on average two to three years to complete. The members of the Commission expressed the opinion that 10 million cubic metres of felling could be divided over several years, as the felling depends to a significant extent on the weather. Such a procedure would make it possible to make up for some of the little fellings in the warm winter later in the colder winter. There was interest in how many jobs would be lost as a result of these changes. Külliki Kübarsepp, the representative of the drafters, replied that the current estimates were that jobs would not be lost. There was also a traditional question of how much felling was last year, and Marku Lamp replied that it was nearly 7 million cubic metres and that overall, about 2,500 jobs correspond to 1 million cubic metres. There was also a brief discussion about the growth of the economic forest and how the forest was managed during the Soviet period. It was decided to appoint Andres Metsoja, member of the Environment Committee, as rapporteur for the draft 425, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 7 June and to hold a final vote. All these decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U104	Questions for the Commission's rapporteur! Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U105	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! Could you please specify the felling volume for 2016? As I recall, the Vice Chancellor did not say 7 million cubic metres, but 10.7 million cubic metres.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U106	I have here an extract from Protocol 117 to this sitting, and it specifically states that the volume of felling was nearly 7 million cubic metres. Perhaps it is appropriate to note that scientists believe that the optimal volume of felling is 12 to 15 million cubic metres, as you yourself mentioned. More comment than the protocol says, I don't know how.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U107	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U108	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Did the Commission also propose that the views of scientists be taken into account when drawing up the development plan? It appears from your list that only the officials of the Ministry of the Environment took part in the Commission's meeting, scientists were not included in the debate. I'm just going to do a little detour here on the subject. I listened to a very good scientist's report on the subject while driving a long way from the radio. In the opinion of this forest scientist, unfortunately, I did not remember his name, but the current volume of felling is normal, but it should not be larger. From the point of view of forest health, he considers the current felling volume to be appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U109	Scientists have said that the cutting volume has been around 8 million cubic metres in the last ten years. It has not been exceeded. But it is undoubtedly the forestry development plan that is a document that must be drawn up not only by scientists but also by various interest groups, because the forest is not only an economic resource. Indeed, we are all, in our own way, specialists in this field in the sense that we are making visual assessments, but this is just one of the research methods to understand something and draw conclusions. But, of course, we have very solid forestry scientists who can put an input bill into the development plan, and we have to trust them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U110	No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Free Party Group, Artur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U111	Good Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The faction of the Free Party has sought to clarify the subject of the forest bat as far as possible and has found that there is a great deal of confusion in the figures on which the various parties base their views. There is no common vision that will give us the assurance that the Estonian forest, more or less as it is today, will be preserved. There is no certainty about exactly what the alleged increase means. Some people talk a little bit the same, others talk a little the other way around. But one thing we are convinced of is that the pressure of the forest industry on more chopping has increased a great deal. And, as we know, there is a very large refinery in construction or planning, which will further increase this pressure. As the forestry sector is clearly unbalanced, the Free Party Group had to come up as a temporary measure with a proposal to reduce the volume of felling to 10 million cubic metres in the existing development plan for at least three years when the new development plan is being carried out. It is very difficult to find some other means until scientists finally find a golden medium with a unified approach, on which all scientists representing the various sides would say yes, that this is the best solution. Today we will also be discussing amendments to the Forest Act and the Nature Conservation Act, which aim to reduce the felling age of spruce. I ask you, too, when looking at this draft, to support our proposal to introduce our proposed amendment to the current development plan, i.e. to set a cutting distance of 10 million cubic metres a year! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U112	There is no further wish for negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments to draft 425 were tabled and therefore the final vote must be taken. Honourable Riigikogu, since the adoption of a draft decision containing a proposal for the Government of the Republic requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, we will carry out a verification of the presence. 43 members of the Riigikogu decided to register their presence. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic to amend the "Estonian Forest Development Plan until 2020" draft 425. Please take a stand and vote. There were 9 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adoption, 9 against and 1 abstention. The draft was not supported. Andres Herkel, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really do have a procedural question. Looking at this extremely small number score, I wondered what would happen if the vote in the Riigikogu Hall ended with 0: 0? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U114	Depends on what's being voted on. Generally speaking, as there were no more votes against, the decision would not be taken. But let's try!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U115	The next item is the continuation of the second reading of Bill 328 of the Law on the amendment of the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Waitress Raivo Aeg from the Committee on Legal Affairs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U116	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Let's continue to read the second reading of bill 328 that we left here some time ago. And he left behind because the Committee on Legal Affairs proposed that the second reading be interrupted. As a reminder, this is an amendment to the Penal Code to strengthen the attitude towards drink driving and drink driving. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 14 November 2016. The first reading took place on 11 January this year and the second reading was suspended on 5 April, which, as I mentioned, on a proposal from the Commission. The deadline for the new amendments was 11 April. No proposals were received from the Riigikogu by the deadline, but the Ministry of Justice sent a letter to the Commission and on this basis the Commission initiated three amendments. Two of these three proposals concern the Penal Code: Section 422 of the First Penal Code and Section 424 of the Second Penal Code. These are two sections which, on the day the draft was in the hall for the first time at second reading, the Riigikogu did not find support. However, the Ministry of Justice found in its letter that they were still important, and the Commission discussed them at its meeting on 11 May, which prepared the draft to continue the second reading, and also voted. As far as their content is concerned, § 422 is supplemented by paragraph 3 which states that if the driver violates the requirements of traffic or vehicle operation and this occurs when driving a vehicle intoxicated, 'the sentence is not left entirely conditional'. Point 2 of the same paragraph provides that the withdrawal of the right to drive applies as an additional penalty. Thus, if a probation is imposed, at least some part of it must be enforced, the probation cannot be applied in full. And secondly, the withdrawal of the right to drive can also be imposed as an additional penalty. This is necessary, in particular, in order to allow for the following amendment, which concerns § 424 (4) of the Penal Code. In the case of a more serious traffic offence where a drunk driver has caused serious harm or death to a person as a result of negligence, the punishment of the perpetrator must not be less severe than the punishment for driving intoxicated. Paragraphs 73 and 74 of the Penal Code are also amended, which also deal directly with the mandatory shocking for drunk driving, which was sanctioned in the Riigikogu on 5 April. The Commission's proposal is to take full account of this amendment. We also had a vote on the proposal, 6 votes in favour, 2 votes against and no abstentions. The second amendment concerns the current text of § 424 of the Penal Code: the current text of § 424 is considered to be paragraph 1 and three additional paragraphs are added to the paragraph. This § 424 refers to driving a motor vehicle, a off-road vehicle and a tram in a state of drink. To understand what we are talking about, I will explain that the current text of the law states that driving a motor vehicle, off-road vehicle or tram in a state of drink is punishable by a financial penalty or imprisonment of up to three years. It shall be deemed to be paragraph 1 and three further paragraphs shall be added. Paragraph 2 states that the same act, if committed repeatedly, is punishable by imprisonment of up to four years. Paragraph 3 states that 'the court may apply as an additional penalty for the act provided for in subsection 1 of this section for the withdrawal of the right to drive from three months', paragraph 4, that, in the case of a criminal offence referred to in subsection 2 of the same section, 'the sentence is not left entirely conditional', that is an analogous change as in the first amendment and, as an additional punishment, the withdrawal of the right to drive is applied, which is also analogous to the first amendment. This is justified in particular by the amendments to § 73 and 74 of the Penal Code, as I referred to earlier. The proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs is to take full account of this amendment. There was a vote and, like the previous proposal, 6 votes in favour and 2 votes against. The third amendment concerns the amendment of the Penal Register Act. Its content is that § 2 of the draft law relating to the amendment of § 24 of the Penal Register Act, in particular the time limits for the deletion of criminal records, could be completely excluded from the draft. The author considered that this is a more important and broader issue, which needs to be addressed in a complex way, and so it is not appropriate to start reviewing this regulation here in such a narrow framework. The proposal is to delete § 2 completely from the draft. The Ministry of Justice has a plan to take a much wider approach to this issue. The position of the commission was to take full account of this proposal. The result of the vote was the same: 6 votes in favour and 2 votes against. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda for the plenary session on 7 June, that the second reading be closed and that the second reading be sent to third reading when the second one is completed, by 14 June 2017 and then that the final vote be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U117	Külliki Hatter starts the round of questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U118	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Please, can you confirm that these amendments will resolve the problem referred to by the Attorney General, that the shocking is intended to put all offenders together and not to approach individually? The hooligans and those who have crashed because of a health problem, they're like one of them. Is this taken into account in the solutions proposed by the Ministry of Justice or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U119	This draft refers to drivers repeatedly caught in criminal drunkenness and to the application of shock-freeness to punish them. No, I don't think there's a plan to punish sick people with a shock spell.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U120	Hatter, question two!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U121	Thank you. I will try to clarify the arguments of the courts. The Courts have been very critical of this draft because they are deprived of discretion. Do the amendments increase the discretion or remain the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U122	It's a debateable question. In some respects, discretion is reduced when minimum penalty criteria are set. The discretion is reduced in the sense that parole cannot be applied in full in certain cases. In some respects, this sentence must be enforced. That is the question that the courts raised. But it is now both political and legislator's will to point out that criminal drunken driving, especially repeatedly in criminal drunken driving, is still such a serious offence that it is reasonable to raise the so-called minimum threshold of punishment and thus give a very clear and concrete signal to society that such conduct cannot be tolerated in any way and deserves much more severe punishment and attitude than it has been so far. We know enough about cases where drunk drivers have caused road accidents with severe consequences, but they have not received any real sentence for deprivation of liberty. And it is quite widely known in society that when the sentence of imprisonment has been sentenced to parole, the person who committed the act, after the trial, comments that I was never given anything, got parole. There's no parole in society that's quite a punishment. So to give weight to punishment, to condemn the act and to show non-toleration, I think this is a very practical step.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U123	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no more questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Three amendments have been tabled for Bill 328, and we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The second proposal is also presented by the Committee on Legal Affairs, a decision: to take full account. The third amendment is also the decision of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which is the decision of the lead committee: to take full account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 328. The Estonian Reform Party Group of the Riigikogu has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft 328. This will inevitably lead to a voting procedure. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code and related amendments to other laws (strengthening the attitude towards drink driving). Please take a stand and vote! 28 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 48 against. The Reform Party's proposal was not supported. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U124	Today's seventh item is the continuation of the second reading of the draft Law amending the Law on Public Transport, Traffic and Public Duty Act 188, initiated by members of the Riigikogu Einar Vallbaumi, Ivari Padari, Vilja Toomas, Andre Sepa, Kalle Palling, Johannes Kerdi, Remo Holsmer, Jüri Jaanson, Ken-Marti Vaheri, Meelis Mälberg, Laine Randjärve, Anne Sulling, Marko Mihkelson, Urve Tiidus, Toomas Kivimägi, Jaanus Marrandi, Deniss Borodichi, Heidy Purga, Keit Pentus-Rosimine, Tanel Winter, Eerik-Niles Krossi, Kalle Laaneti, Igor Gräzini, Juhan Partsi, Kristjan Kõlljala and Martin Kuke. I would like to present a speech chair to Vice-Chairman of the Economic Commission, Toomas Kivimägi!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This is a bill initiated by these 26 members of the Riigikogu already on 25 February 2016. The first reading took place on 19 April of last year. On 1 May the Commission presented a new text as a whole and the Committee on Economic Affairs therefore proposed that the second reading be interrupted in order to give members of the Riigikogu, as well as the so-called market participants and other interested parties the opportunity to examine the draft and express their views and opinions. I am very pleased to say that by the deadline for submitting amendments, by 31 May 2017, an amendment was received from the members of the Riigikogu and the political groups, which means that we are very close to adopting one of the best laws of this session. And we're pretty close to that for two reasons, above all. Firstly, we have decided, to a large extent, to equalise the terms and conditions of the carriers on the basis of current taxi drivers and on the basis of an agreement. And we are also very close to this agreement because we have been able to make the taxi market much more liberal in the draft. I'll name a few things. The duty to train a taxi driver is lost. Secondly, which is extremely important and somewhat even peculiar: the current taxi drivers will also have the right to provide services via the information society platform if this draft is approved. Thus, if the meter is present in the car, but the ordering of the carriage and the pricing have taken place via the information society platform, the charge for the journey is not based on the meter's reading, but on the maximum price determined on the basis of that platform. And the third amendment, which is certainly also very fundamental, great and welcome, is that if the current area of activity of taxi drivers is very broadly limited to the administrative territory of the municipality that has issued the taxi licence, the draft states that the right to provide taxi transport services throughout the territory of Estonia. However, it is an important condition that the requirements laid down in the territory of another municipality must be complied with. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed other proposals received at its meeting on 31 May. One of the proposals was from the Estonian Association of Leising Associations, who asked for clarification that the consent of the owner of the vehicle could be required when issuing the service card if the applicant is not the owner. This was not supported by the Members of the Commission. Mr Kiisler found that this was too much bureaucracy. This is still a matter between the owner and the driver and it does not matter whether the large mileage of the vehicle has been achieved by providing platform-based taxi services or for any other reason. There is therefore no reason to impose a separate notification obligation. Hindrek Allvee, of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, also said that the purpose of the draft is to simplify procedures, and any additional requirement would make the process slower and more complicated. Following the debate, Aivar Kokk asked if anyone would support the proposal of the Association of Leasing Associations, and no one signalled it. So no such amendment was tabled by the Commission. The second, only amendment tabled by the Riigikogu was tabled by the Centre Party Group. I have it in Protocol 1, but in the list of amendments it is in Number 2. The content of this amendment is that, if the draft requires the carrier to submit to the passenger, after the journey, a written reproduction form of the driver's first and last name, etc., where all the information is available, then the proposal of the Group of the Centre Party is that the carrier must submit to the passenger the driver's first and last name, photo and attendant card in a form which can be reproduced in writing before the journey begins and notify the maximum travel fee plus taxes. If the destination of the journey is not immediately specified, the passenger must be informed of the price components. Therefore, if, according to the draft, the carrier has to submit in writing a summary of the journey in the form to be reproduced and all related to it, the proposal of the Centre Party Group is that, when I make this order, all the information that I listed above must also be given in the form to be reproduced in writing. Mr Savisaar presented this proposal at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. In his view, the final price should be announced in a form which is capable of being reproduced in writing, as this is the only way for the customer to prove, if necessary, that too much money has been taken from his account. Hindrek Allvee, of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, said that there are provisions in the Consumer Protection Act requiring the price of the service to be notified in advance, and that other services do not require that the price should be reported in a form capable of being reproduced in writing. Even in a normal taxi, the customer is not given a price list. Aivar Kokk argued that such deception is already taking place, and the authors of this amendment are also of the opinion that there are a lot of frauds. It's like when I order, there's a price, but when I finish the race, a lot more money will be taken from my card. That's when Aivar Kokk said there's already a cheat. The information society service system provides an offer below the average cost of ordinary taxis, but after the provision of the service a charge is charged which is higher than the average normal taxi charge. The speaker said that the draft cannot be based on the assumption that the providers of taxi services ordered through the information society service wish to deceive customers. Business can't be built on fraud. There is no reason to trust traditional taxis more than on-demand via the information society service. The customer confirms the price offered when ordering. At the moment, no maximum price has been set, and the price may be different if a time tariff higher than expected is imposed because of some traffic obstacles. This bill, however, fixes the maximum price and this problem falls away. Mr Kiisler pointed out that a feedback programme had also been carried out for the information society service and that the contract would be terminated with managers who received bad feedback. This amendment was voted in the Committee on Economic Affairs and the result of the vote was that there were two members of the Committee on Economic Affairs in favour of the proposal. I consider it important to mention their names: they were, of course, Erki Savisaar and Märt Sults. Toomas Kivimägi was opposed to this. I do have here that according to the protocol, Jaanus Marrand, Siim Kisler and Aivar Kokk were neutral, but I would rather say that they did not take part in the vote. They can correct it because they didn't really ask if anyone was impartial. I just dare say that the representatives of the IRL and the Social Democrats in the Committee on Economic Affairs did not take part in this vote and did not express their opinion. It is also important to reiterate that this amendment is not supported by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications either. This meeting of the Commission also discussed the proposal of the Association of Car Enterprises. They proposed that the price be set by the carrier in the classic taxi service, as is currently the case with the so-called "conventional services." Currently, the price of taxi transport is set by the local authority. In the Commission, this proposal was not supported, particularly because we actually want to liberalise the possibility of setting the price of taxi transport with the draft. There are currently only two time tariffs: night and day. According to the draft, the local authority can set countless different time tariffs. For example, if another tariff is to be set for New Year's Eve, this option will arise. There is still a need to guarantee certain price stability. At this very sitting of the Commission, I now rush to ensure that procedural decisions were taken afterwards. Firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 7 June (consensus). Secondly, to propose that the second reading be stopped (as well as by consensus). Third, send the draft to third reading when the second reading is completed by 14 June (also by consensus). This substantive debate, however, was resumed at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs on 5 June. By that time two amendments had been received, both from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The first was to replace the word 'authorisation' in § 58 (2) (3) of the CCI, which is to be amended by § 1 (11) of the draft law with 'tax authorisation'. It's kind of a terminological flaw that had gotten in. The Commission supported this by consensus. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also proposed to supplement § 96 (14) of the Act with the following wording: 'The professional competence of the transport manager referred to in § 44 (5) of this Act is also evidenced by the valid certificate of professional competence of the taxi driver issued before 1 November 2017. ' It has something to do with this, as I said at the outset, that the requirement for professional training as a taxi driver disappears, but in order for it to be possible to prove its professional competence, such a change had to be made. So, if I've ever been through a cab driver's professional training, I've got the skills I need to take these races. In fact, it has nothing to do with these trades, but so-called occasional services. For example, if I order a nine-seater bus and I want to drive it to Hungary, it is not on the basis of a taxi tariff, but on the basis of such a separate regulation. It is precisely for this occasion that this provision has been introduced. This amendment was also unanimously supported by the Commission. Now one more line. I would like to draw attention to the date of entry into force, which has not really changed, although the Commission discussed it very seriously and at length. According to the draft law, the date of entry into force of the draft law is 1 November 2017. The members of the Commission had a keen desire to bring this deadline forward, but discussed the matter at length with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, we found it more reasonable to give more time for any possible additions to the registers and any other changes. Then, by the time it comes into force, everything works. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications explained why a longer deadline was needed. The first reason is that, if there are many paper and service offices-based procedures for issuing both the service provider card, the vehicle card and the licence, the aim is to make it fully electronic for the user by 1 November. Secondly, it is also such a proud goal that one of the convention driver taxi drivers who wants to apply for a taxi driving licence, a driver card and a attendant card from 1 November does not have to submit any documents. These documents would all be automatically available from the registers. There are some exceptions. For example, if a person who wishes to carry a taxi is not the owner of this vehicle, he or she will naturally have to submit a contract showing that he or she has the right to use the car. And it is also a proud aim that such a permit procedure should not be a one-off procedure, but that there should be constant background checks on companies, drivers and vehicles. This e-solution is intended to lead the world. I think it is reasonable to give more time to respond to such an ambitious challenge. So once again, the date of the possible entry into force of this law is November 1, as was originally the case in the draft. To sum up quickly, I will say once again that three amendments have been tabled. The first, which is terminological, was unanimously supported by the Commission. The second amendment has been tabled by the Centre Party Group, and I talked about this for a very long time. Two people were in favour of this, one was against, and three members of the Commission did not take a position. The third amendment concerns the driver's certificate of competency. All members of the Commission were in favour of this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U126	Dear waitress, thank you very much for your comprehensive report. Well, maybe that's part of why you don't have any questions. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U127	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, You could say about this bill: long done, beautiful. Who remembers the first draft of this bill, some asked whether piracy was legalized or what was happening. In the same area of activity, you have to pay taxes and do all kinds of other things, and you don't have to do anything else. I remember that there were very different opinions and many questions in the Commission, both during the time of Thomas's leadership and in my time, and there seemed to be no way to move forward with this draft. The opinions were from the wall to the wall. The breakthrough took place in mid-March when we had another debate on the same draft. I want to thank you here for Tallinn Transport... what is it called? The office that a lady visited us in the Commission and brought us all to the ground, from this corner and that corner, and finally we reached the middle of the floor. I had the honour of writing down a few lines that should definitely be included in this bill so that we could move forward at all. It was interesting that both the initiators and the members of the Commission largely agreed with these proposals in the Commission. The first was to equalise the minimum conditions for taxi and freight transport services, i.e. the licence, the vehicle card, the passenger card. The second objective was that taxiing does not limit activity to the borders of municipalities, but can provide services throughout the country. The third amendment was that the training of taxi drivers could be carried out by taxi companies. Fourthly, a taxi can also provide a platform service and at that time the meter does not have to work. Companies providing platform services must be registered in the Estonian register so that there is no such situation that taxes go somewhere else. Thanks to several discussions, I believe that a very good draft was born, which I recommend to all members of the Riigikogu to support. And if there was a question here as to why some of the Centre Party's proposal in the Commission voted and some did not vote, then I must say that the IRL Group will certainly support this proposal. When I place the order, I need to see when I get in the cab that the price is what the deal was. Not that when you get in a cab, they say the price is different. If you're going to the airport or some meeting at the last minute, there's no way you can give up the ride. I would like to thank everyone who participated in this draft so that they could come together from one corner and another corner on the middle floor and we had four different opportunities to provide taxi services, so everyone has equal responsibilities and rights. Everyone has to pay taxes and everyone can be checked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U128	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Three amendments have been tabled for the 188 draft. The first proposal has been presented by the Economic Commission, the decision of the lead committee: to take full account. A second amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U129	The Reform Party Group is asking for a second amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U130	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the second amendment to the draft law 188. This has been done by the Estonian Centre Party Group; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. 53 MPs voted in favour of the amendment, 27 against and 1 abstention. The amendment was also supported in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. The third amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 188. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U131	The eighth item is the second reading of Bill 396 amending the Forest Act and the Nature Conservation Act. Mr. Rainer Vakra, Chair of the Environment Committee, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U132	Ladies and gentlemen, Good manager! It is my honour and pleasure to introduce to you the procedure of the draft law amending the Forest Act and the Nature Conservation Act in the commission between first and second reading. I would remind you that the draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 6 March this year. The first reading took place on 22 March, and the deadline for submitting amendments was set here together at 4 p.m. on 5 April. The Group of the Estonian Free Party and the honourable members of the Riigikogu, Anneli Ott and Jaanus Karilaid, tabled amendments to the draft. In addition, the Committee on the Environment finalised 12 amendments. During the period between first and second readings, the draft has been dealt with twice at Commission meetings: 8 May and 16 May. At our meeting on 8 May, the representatives of Vormsi rural municipality, "For the Protection of the Forest of Viimsi" and "Forests of Estonia," Ambla Forest Association, Forest Owners of Central Estonia, Viljandi County Forest Society, Estonian Forest Association and Kohila Forest Society took part and presented their proposals for amending the draft. At the meeting of the Commission on 16 May, representatives of the Estonian Free Party Group presented their amendments, also attended the meeting and made relevant draft proposals by representatives of the Estonian Green Movement and, of course, representatives of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The presentation of the Commission's amendments was also discussed at this meeting. In conclusion, the Commission, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, as I have already said, drafted 12 amendments, in addition to five proposals from the Free Party Group and one from the delegates of the Centre Party. Let us examine the amendments. Amendment 1 I believe that one of the most important changes is that we are supplementing § 1 with a new point 3 and adding § 6 (21) to the Forest Act, according to which the Government of the Republic has the right to impose restrictions on the surface area of the cutting stock in order to ensure the natural balance of the forest if it is reasonable to assume that the volume of cuttings may exceed the growth of the forest being managed. The aim of the amendment is to provide in the Forest Act for a measure that the State can implement when there is a real risk that the volume of felling will exceed the growth rate of the forest, with a view to the natural balance of forests and sustainable management. The Commission unanimously supported this proposal. The next proposal is to supplement § 7 (4) by saying that representatives of ecological, social and economic interest must be represented in the working group. This point is particularly important because it is also intended to involve those interest groups and civil society organisations that have not been involved so far, i.e. to pay attention not only to the economy but also to the social and ecological aspects of forest problems. The third proposal is submitted by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. This was fully taken into account by the Commission. Its content was to amend one word in the draft: in the introductory phrase of Article 10 (1), the words'may support' are to be replaced by'support'. And what's the reason? The author of this draft has proposed an amendment to the provision with a view to making the grant more secure. The formula'may support' may reduce subsidies in the future. This proposal was supported by both the Committee on the Environment and the Ministry of the Environment. So let us delete the amendment'may support', i.e. the word'support', which is unambiguously understood by everyone. Proposal No 4 complements section 10 (2) of the Forest Act. According to the current version, support may be granted to a private forest owner, forest cooperative or consul. According to the amendment, which is substantive and forward-looking, a private forest owner with smaller forest ownership will be preferred as a beneficiary in the future. This point was in several proposals. For example, it was proposed to prohibit legal persons from receiving support in the future. Finally, the Commission considered it reasonable to provide guidance to the Ministry through law and to provide that private forest owners with smaller forest ownership are preferred. Proposal No 5 was based on the proposal made by the Committee on the Environment and was taken into account in a consensual manner. The aim was to make it clear to everyone who is the beneficiaries. In this way, we would like to delete point 6 of § 1 of the bill, which caused confusion. There was a list of different criteria that the legal person had to meet in order to receive support. In the case of a natural person, these requirements do not apply and this caused confusion. Many had the impression that natural persons would not be eligible for further support. That's why we're taking out this point at all. Proposal No 6 has also been taken into account in full. Its Environment Committee has been submitted, the aim is to amend § 10 (6) of the Act and to replace the text in section 4 of the Act by "forest association or company that does not have a valid deletion warning entered in the Commercial Register or the register of non-profit organisations and foundations' with the text "no valid deletion warning'. The amendment is necessary in order to eliminate the notion that the project would deprive natural persons of support and to provide unambiguously that the support will continue to support private forest owners, whether natural or legal. Amendment 7 concerns clear cutting strips. In the draft act, the following point is deleted: 'in the first sentence of paragraph 41 of paragraph 11 the words 'by cadastral or management unit' are deleted. The amendment is due to the fact that the draft amendment would result in a shift to allocation-based forest inventory, which could lead to an increase in the price per hectare of inventory and in some cases encourage pressure from growing forest buyers on private forest owners. Maybe that's when we stuck with the law. Forest management inventory will continue to take place on a land-based basis rather than by cadastral or management units. I will next introduce Amendment 9, which is certainly remarkable. This concerns the new regulation on harvester operators. Our analysis has shown very clearly that we still have harvester operators who do not recognize yew trees in the forest, for example. It will be almost impossible to compensate for the damage they have caused. If the yew tree is sawn down, it's impossible to put it back. As harvester operators make decisions in the course of their work that determine the state of the clearing, the aim is that they must have a level 4 invitation to the harvester operator acquired under professional law. Here are the requirements for Level 4. This change requires a transitional period of five years. This means that all those who wish to work as harvester operators in the future will have five years to comply with Level 4 requirements. Next, we have two proposals with the same content. This has been done by two ambassadors from the Centre Party, Anneli Ott and Jaanus Karilaid, as well as the Free Party. It involves lowering the felling age of spruce trees in higher growth areas. These proposals were not supported by the Commission with 4 votes: 2. Proposal No 12 deletes a point which amends § 29 (9) and is worded as follows:'((9) Prior to the renewal of the cutting area, no new clear cutting may be made on the forest allocation bordering the cutting area, unless: (1) the total area of the cutting area and the total area of the new cutting area do not exceed the maximum area of clear cutting provided for in subsection 11 of this section; (2) the langs are located on the property of the different owners outside the protected natural object and shore limitation zone. " Its contents, as revealed, are as follows. While the first version of the draft, after first reading, gave the border neighbours the opportunity to apply for additional clear cutting through the Forest Communication, later, when analysing it, it seemed reasonable, on the one hand, because it would lose the possibility that one neighbour would restrict the logging of another neighbour, but, on the other hand, it seemed that if we mathematically collapsed, we would open a new Pandora box. If the wording was laid down, as it was originally written, I am thinking of applying for a clear cutting permit, then we would see clear cutting of 14, 21 and 28 hectares in Estonia. So we stick to the current law, according to which the maximum clear cutting distance is 7 hectares and can be shared between our neighbours. We didn't go this way to increase the ceiling. I think it is important from the point of view of the Estonian forest that we do not change with a light hand those very important principles that are laid down in the Estonian Forest Act. Those affected by this point are very few in Estonian society, but only in a few decades. However, they have received attention in journalism publications, such as the newspaper of the country and elsewhere. I believe that the objective of putting this point in the forest law in its own time was that the Estonian surface would remind us of the chessboard, so that we would not have huge ceilings, is in any case reasonable. We should stick to that. That is why we proposed in the Commission and supported by consensus the idea of excluding the amendments. The same is true of the proposal made by the Estonian Free Party, which bears the number 13. It has been very logical, it seems to be a peasantly understandable way of thinking that we are setting a 12-month time limit on the logging notice. If the time limit of 12 months is full, then the neighbor can submit it. Unfortunately, the problem with logging notifications is that they can be presented in different sizes. If, for example, a notification of 1.5 hectares is submitted first, it can be submitted in one year's time, for example, 1.4 hectares. And if you go on like this, the Ministry of the Environment was determined to promote mass clear cutting. The Committee on the Environment therefore did not accept this proposal. I would stress that we have stuck to the current version, which means that a ceiling of up to 7 hectares has remained in force. Amendment 14 is made by the Committee on the Environment and concerns local authorities and the protection of green areas. We supplement section 42 (3) of the Forest Act and it sounds that the planned city, as a green area of the settlement unit, cannot be cut without the consent of the local government. The felling shall be coordinated with the local government before the notification of the forest is made. This means that the local government does not have the ultimate veto right. But it gives the municipality the opportunity to negotiate and negotiate. I would like to reiterate that this applies only if the municipality has also designated this area as a green area with a general plan and their protection and conditions of use have been laid down. We have three other proposals, including the last two on when the law will apply. Proposal No 15 was based on the proposal from the State Forest Management Centre that the forests managed by the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications be managed and financed by RMK. The Commission supported this by consensus. And another very specific proposal for inclusion, which concerns the state forest and RMK in particular. This is a proposal to supplement § 43 (9), according to which, when managing forest near the settlement unit, the state forest manager involves the local community or residents in planning forest management work. In our view, it is clear that communication with the population must improve significantly before any felling is carried out. And the next two amendments are about the entry into force of the law. One is referring to an increase in the qualification of the harvester driver over a period of five years and this provision will enter into force five years after the entry into force of the rest of the Act on 1 September 2017. The Committee on the Environment also took procedural decisions: to put a draft of 396 on the agenda for today's sitting, to close the second reading and, if the second reading is closed, to put it on the agenda for the plenary session on 14 June and to hold a final vote on the draft. All these decisions were traditionally taken by the Committee on the Environment by consensus, i.e. by one vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U133	Heidy Purga will open the round of questions to the waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U134	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I do not think that this issue has been thoroughly discussed by me, and certainly by other Members and, above all, by the public. It hasn't been explained enough. This is a very emotional subject. I and very many of the others in our group certainly cannot support this draft. To look back, several specialists, such as Asko Lõhmus, Toomas Frey, and also the press spoke out in Rainer Cuba and Tarmo Tüür, have made statements that have not been refuted or satisfactorily substantiated. For example, over 80 years of age, the surface area of spruce managed has decreased by as much as a quarter over the last ten years, or the annual permit for spruce cutting exceeds the quantity of tree forest ripened in cutting. And most importantly, bringing down felling age would mean more felling in RMK's forests and also greater dividends. Mr Vakra, as chairman of the committee, do you support this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U135	Thank you. I'll start at the end. So let's specifically review these cutting volumes of RMK. At times, it seems to me that each of us here and outside the hall is the owners of the Estonian state forest, so we can call ourselves shareholders in some ways. If we look at the felling volumes of the State Forest Management Centre, they have spread over the last 4 to 5 years between 3.5 and 4 million cubic metres, almost twice as much as the cutting of private forest owners. When it comes to dividends, the amount of dividends has not come because more forest has been cut, but because RMK has clearly made fewer investments. I think I agree with you on this point that RMK's investments should recover. That is why the Committee on the Environment, by consensus, drew up a letter to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance and Minister of the Environment at the beginning of the year in which we proposed in the 2019 budget strategy that the dividend income of the State Forest Management Centre be kept within EUR 10 million and not increased. The larger amount of the state budget has not come from larger cutting volumes, but, I would stress, from investments. This has been a matter of priorities and it certainly needs to be changed. As for the tree felling age, I agree with you. My first higher education is environmental and ecological. This is a very emotional issue and I am pleased that it is on the agenda again and again, not only in this house, but also in various publications and various debates, such as the workshop on the timber industry, which took place today under the leadership of the Committee on the Environment. Ladies and gentlemen have also written about this today, such as Lauri Luik. I am a member of the Forestry Council and I know that there were indeed the people you mentioned there and agreed that they would agree to reduce the tree's felling age. In return, 27000 hectares of grove forests and forests located on state lands will be covered by strict protection. At the moment, I assure the honourable Reformer that I believe that this 27000 hectares should have been protected earlier. If we look at who has had a chance to do this, I must say that the Reform Party had this opportunity for a long time. As for the felling age of the spruce, Kalle Palling and Rainer Vakra were the two people who did not really support the felling of the tree's felling age. But there is a very strong point in this bill. Only 0,2% of the area of Estonia's forests is affected by the clearing of the spruce. If we support today that the Government of the Republic can restrict the area of the cutting area to ensure the natural balance of the forest, if there is reason to assume that the volume of cuttings may exceed the growth of the forest being managed, then for the first time we will create a mechanism by which the Republic of Estonia will have the opportunity to ensure that we do not cut more than it grows. I quote here the former Minister for the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimit, who emphasised at first reading in this Chamber that we have drawn a very clear red line in the political agreement of society. For the first time, the coalition agreement also states that we will not cut more than we will grow. And now, for the first time in history, there is a mechanism to actually ensure this and how to react if such a shameful thing should happen in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U136	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U137	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Do you not think that, when it comes to growth, the arguments put forward may not be correct? A number of scientists, as the pre-questioner pointed out, have raised questions and no consensus has been reached. I also referred to this in the debate on the fifth item. The Free Party has commented on this issue in this Chamber on 13 April, when it was a matter of great importance as a national issue. There, too, the problem was brought up in the same way. What has the Committee on the Environment done to ensure certainty in the number of spruce growths? How do we know you're not screwed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U138	Thank you. We certainly rely on the inventory of the state forest, i.e. statistical forest inventory, short of the SMI. If we look at the 2015 figures, the increase in forest management in Estonia was 13.9 million cubic metres. On the previous point, these figures were discussed, let's make them clear with decimal places. The increase in managed forest was 13.9 million cubic metres and the felling volume was 10.1 million cubic metres. I believe that, if a new Minister for the Environment is to be appointed in the near future, one very clear task we could give him is that all future forest transport permits could be electronic. At present, this is the case in almost 75% of cases, so basically we still have 25% to go. Then all the speculations we are discussing today will be canceled in order to place this decimal place where, as we would basically be able to monitor, in real time, by means of an app or otherwise on a smartphone, the extent of the logging capacity of the Estonian forest. Currently 75% of the cargo is digitised, 25% more to go. But in the case of RMK, for example, it is already 100%. So in the case of RMK, it would in principle be possible to see in real time tomorrow how much of the Estonian forest belonging to us all will be cut. I believe that this is an undertaking that should be done in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U139	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U140	Thank you. Good Rainer, you have recently quite actively supported tree conservationists and taken the floor to protect nature at all. I don't think this bill is very close to your heart. But you're the chairman of the Environment Commission. Why do you allow this shit to go to the big hall if you actually had a chance to keep it out of here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U141	I don't agree with you. Very many of the points that the Committee on the Environment has put in here are made up by me. This, of course, is in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment. Be the example of the Government of the Republic's right to restrict the area of the cutting-up bar. In fact, the harvester man sees what kind of trees he cuts off. We know from a number of examples that this has not been understood. Or the same question that the size of clear cutting strips does not increase, the maximum size is seven hectares, as it has been so far. And, of course, there are two good points on inclusion. As regards inclusion, I will immediately give an example of Viimsi, where I think the residents felt very justified resentment for the activities of RMK. And another, no less important, is that in the urban environment coordination with the municipality is still necessary. So there are a lot of good points here. What would happen if we did not give the government the opportunity to quickly impose restrictions to ensure natural balance? In reality, the Estonian state currently does not have a mechanism to guarantee that we will not cut more than the increase. This is specifically for private owners to decide because, as I said, the average felling volume is that just under four million cubic metres per year, RMK, the state and seven commas with something, or about eight million cubic metres, are cut by private forest owners. If they wanted to chop 16 to 17 million cubic metres at one point, we now have no legal limit on how to prevent it. That's right. I understand that it may be astonishing that this is the case. You could say, but then we'll cut down on the state forest. That's a very sensible idea! But in discussing this idea, when we decided on the subject at length, we still came to the point that the Government of the Republic should be given the right to limit the cutting volume. Why? Because for RMK, the "zero' point is 2.7 million cubic metres per year. If it's under it, it's bad. Of course, in the end, RMK's felling volume from its current 3.8 million to zero, but this means that we must all find new sources of money together in this hall. 2.7 million cubic metres per year is the volume of felling for which RMK is at zero in terms of revenue and expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U142	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U143	Thank you, good Rainer! In many places in the media and social media, you have directed your resentment at reform parties and said that look at what you have done to the Estonian forests. Just as a reminder that the lunar cutting age will be lowered and your left-wing government will take extraordinary dividends from RMK. There's nothing to do about it. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister for the Environment of the Reform Party, has said that neither in his time nor during Mati Raidma, the felling age of the spruce would have been reduced. It's not just a matter of individual counties where the land belongs to bonite classes A and 1A. In fact, the change concerns 75% of Estonian spruce and 35% of Estonian pine trees. Why do you do that when you say you want to protect the forest?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U144	Once again, I assure you that no party will arouse our resentment. But, of course, it is sad that the Reform Party did not show the same determination at least in words when this item was voted on in the Committee on the Environment. Then it would have been different. Let me remind you, Mr. Palling, that you and I were against lowering the tree's felling age. I am not going to name people here who were in favour of it, but there were reform parties among them. In a way, it is indeed an emotional question. I have repeatedly expressed an idea that has pissed off the leaders of the private forest federation. If it's the owner who hasn't done anything in his 20-hectare forest, for example, and lets this forest rot, then they think it's a bad owner who hasn't taken care of the forest. As a naturalist, I say, on the contrary, it is not a bad one, it is a very good and sensible owner. This makes the forest a very large number of species that would not otherwise live. You don't have to label it like that. As many as there are owners, there are different desires and desires. As far as the cutting volumes of RMK are concerned, I repeat that, unlike dividends, cutting volumes have been the same in recent years, even when we had had a reformist Minister for the Environment. However, the current government has indeed significantly reduced RMK's investment in the roads to be built by almost 90%. That money will be taken out as a dividend. It has nothing to do with felling age. But if we look at history, one thing has constantly upset me, and I have made some accusations about it, perhaps indeed, to the Reform Party. The thing is, in a private forest, there's a second rule for spruces in their first growing place. In time, they were opened from behind, as I say, a back door or a basement door. According to law, there are like two parallel worlds, one with age and the other with a number of centimeters. 26 centimeters is the diameter the tree must reach so that it can be cut down. In good habitats, such a spruce is 50 or 60 years old. This is also the reason why the Committee on the Environment has received very few letters from private forest associations and private forest owners. They've been in the woods long ago with a measuring stick. They've been taking down spruce like this for years. However, if a measuring stick is used, a 2 centimeter error may occur when measuring the prescribed 26 centimeters. So "good woodsman" finds a way to take down a 24-centimeter spruce. Half of Estonia's forest land is in the hands of private forest owners who have taken down a tree in this way for many years. And here I would ask who have been the ministers who opened this back door. According to law, RMK could also use the same measurement of centimeters. I have asked many times why you raised the issue of the tree age in the first place and put it into law. In explaining its principles, RMK has made it very clear that they are managing the forest from the age of the trees rather than from the thickness of the trees. Consequently, they have also proposed this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U145	Eerik-Niles Kross.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U146	Thank you, good manager. Good speaker! You have said many times today how important it is not to be cut more than the increase. At the same time, there have been several researchers in this Chamber who have claimed that more than 70% of the increase should not be cut for sustainable management. More than 90% are currently being cut in Estonia; Estonia is one of the first countries in Europe in this sad ranking. I don't understand the logic of your understanding. In order to be sustainable, no more than the increase is allowed to be cut. And private forest owners do bad when they cut down too young a tree. Then it should be regulated in some way, but we will come up with a bill that aims to allow RMK to do the same. It's no reason that RMK wants to do the same. Why do we support cutting our felling age?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U147	I have explained the situation to you for a very long time. The current law also allows trees with a diameter of at least 6 inches [26 cm] to be cut down in good habitats. It's not about wanting anyone. I asked no rhetorically very specific question as to what the minister was behind this decision. I think you have every reason to look back in history. Why has the law been amended before? Why do I keep stressing the growth of the forest? Because this is the main specific indicator that's the limit. If we leave this point out, I'm just asking what might be instead. That's a very good idea. It's 70%. I also agree to provide that we will cut only 50% of the increase. But there are no restrictions in the law right now. If we do not adopt this law today, next year we can also cut 19 or 20%. There are no conceptually agreed limit values in the existing law, as in the case of oil shale, which can be extracted by 20 million tonnes per year. The same border was agreed with scientists ♪ Asko Lõhmus and the other members of the forestry council. All parties, who have always been around the table when discussing forest issues, agreed that the reasonable limit would not only be 27000 hectares of forest protected, but also the growth of economic forests. I stress the word 'economics', too, is very important, because the term 'forest growth' is often found in the maze of our numbers, which is considerably higher. In the case of the economic forest, we have excluded the growth of forests growing in protected areas. So we are only talking about forests that can now be managed by law. And in this respect, we do not have any restrictions on how it can be regulated if we see that pressure on the Estonian forest is increasing. Unfortunately, the Estonian state does not have this capacity. We can create this mechanism for the first time in the history of Estonian forestry in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U148	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U149	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We understand that the budget needs money. We could leave the woods alone. Here's my question. If now the proposal of the Free Party does not find support for cutting age, will you also support the adoption of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U150	I repeat, as far as the cutting volumes and dividends of RMK are concerned, the dividends coming into the budget are not at the cost of increased logging, but because RMK does not contribute as much to the forest roads as it has done so far. That's one. Secondly, I repeat that in addition to reducing the felling age of trees growing in good habitats, there are other important points in the draft. I am thinking, in particular, of setting a limit on cutting capacity. I firmly state that this limit should in future be equal to the increase in the forest. This is clearly more important than the tree's shave. I have talked a lot about this with many ecologists who have also performed in this hall. This point has also been coordinated with Asko Lõhmus, whose proposal was certainly to provide for the management of economic forests. We're only talking about economic forests. I believe it is worth listening to forest scientists from both sides, not only those who are specifically involved in forest management, but also those who have more ecological backgrounds. I'm sure Mr. Smell is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U151	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U152	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Now I don't understand your logic. Please explain why you have gone this way, that you are lowering the felling age of the spruce, which, according to your own assurance, primarily serves the interests of RMK. Why have you not come up with the opposite solution, perhaps to resolve the back door problem you mentioned? It would then be 80+, which would be much more useful from the point of view of Estonian nature. As a preliminary remark, RMK's annual report has come out freshly and it can be considered that last year's operating profit was the highest in the last five years: EUR 50,6 million, or EUR 14,4 million more than in 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U153	Thank you. I'm familiar with these numbers. As far as harmonisation is concerned, I regret that the Free Party did not propose that we use one parameter, whether age or number of centimeters, both in private forests and state forests. There are many sportsmen in this hall who know that the forest is a poor man's coat. We really should agree whether we measure this coat by length or by weight. In any case, we should ultimately choose one parameter. I raised this issue in the Forestry Council, which is actually the development of this original idea of the Forest Act. There, however, the idea was voted down with one voice. That is why this parameter has not reached this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U154	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U155	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Toomas Frey, who knows the spruce best, not only in Estonia but also elsewhere, has said that it is the Act on the Ruining of the Forest. Now when I hear that the Chairman of the Commission and the Vice-Chairman of the Commission are against cutting down young spruce, I ask: what is going on? Who tells you and us to chop younger trees? In such a situation, would it not be gentlemanlike for you and the Vice-Chairman of the Commission to resign and give the opportunity to those who do not agree to submit to such a dictatorship?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U156	Thank you, very good suggestion. Palling is also willing to comment on this proposal. But I'll comment for him, too. In the Riigikogu, there are both the chairmen of the committee and the vice-chairmen of the committee, but ultimately every member of the Riigikogu has one vote. We're not playing dodgeball here where the captain has two or three lives. I don't know what it's like in your party if anyone has a dictatorship, if anyone can tell you what to do. I believe that every member of the Riigikogu is free in its decisions, both in the committee and in this large hall. And I am pleased to tell you that you can show your determination in today's vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U157	Mr Palling! There are no negotiations yet. A little later, when the negotiations come, I will be happy to give you the floor. It's just the main report right now. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U158	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good chairman of the committee! Today, a conference of the Estonian Wood Industry Association took place in the conference hall of the Riigikogu under the leadership of the Environment Committee, where only the speeches of the representatives of the industry were held and the Riigikogu represented only the Chairman of the Environment Committee. Why was such a conference planned for such a day when such an important bill and its amendments are already being discussed and voted in the Chamber of the Riigikogu? You were one of the organisers of this conference, please explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U159	Good colleague and schoolmate Artur! Your ability to develop conspiracy theories is beginning to cross all kinds of boundaries. I don't know if it's because you're in charge of a special anti-corruption commission or something else, but it's certainly remarkable. This conference, in cooperation with the Forest Industry Association, was already the fourth in line. We've been doing this for four years and always on Wednesday of the first week of June. Whether we want it or not, I understand that all political parties agree: the Estonian export and economy engine and the leading public budget implementer is the forest industry. And the forest industry can be developed in a variety of ways, with different visions. The aim of the representatives of industry has always been to ensure that as many members of the Riigikogu as possible can participate in the conference so that as many as possible can understand the activities of the Forest Industry Association, their vision and their wishes. I can tell you that there were no members of the Free Party there today, but of all the other parties, with the exception of the EKRE, a total of 10 to 15 people were present in the Chamber. [[Someone in the hall comments that the EKRE representative was present.]] Was there an EKRE? In that case, I'm sorry! So about 15 members of the Riigikogu were listening to these presentations. The fact that the event ended up on the same day that we have the second reading of the draft amendment to the Forest Act is a coincidence. I honestly admit that I agreed with them that next year we will hold the fifth, anniversary conference, where we will discuss the future of the Estonian forest industry again. And that does not depend on whether or not the amendment to the Forest Act is approved today. I believe that the forest industry must continue to be developed in Estonia. Industry has realised that they have made a number of mistakes in their communication. In summary, looking to the future of Estonia, attention needs to be paid to how to manage the forest in a more modern, innovative and sustainable way. No one in this hall is saying that forest management should be completely discontinued and 40,000 Estonian residents left unemployed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U160	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U161	Thank you. Good Rainer! I'm gonna start with where you ended up, with future plans and a broader concept. It still seems to me like cutting a log or pinching a log. Why can't we solve the issue of forestry as a whole and discuss it here? Why do we have to put some small details on the table in the process of amending multiple laws? What's the rush? Why can't we just sit down, take the whole forest area, discuss it, explore how one or the other change affects the whole concept, etc.? Why are we so desperate before the big summer here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U162	Thank you. I am sorry, my good sportsman colleague, I do not know what Member of the Commission you are now. The Committee on the Environment has been discussing this amendment to the Forest Act and the issue of forests in general for almost a year. As a marathon, I'm sure you know that if we discuss a law here for a year, it's not rushing. I think that our awareness in this hall is so high that we can also discuss details such as the age of the tree, the size of the clear cutting hectare, the size of the clear cutting elang, is known to be seven hectares, coordination with local authorities, involvement of RMK, how many centimeters could be the diameter of the tree to be cut in good places of growth. I dare say that the qualifications of the Riigikogu in forestry are so high that we can deal with such details. I believe that there are a number of laws in which much more important provisions do not receive such attention. And the reason is very simple. The environment and nature themes are of increasing importance not only in Estonia but also elsewhere in the world. This is the result of an increase in the population, a result of people's understanding of what it means to change the level of development of everyday life. Without the environment, there is no point in the Committee on Culture, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Social Affairs, because without clean air, clean water and the environment, none of the Commission can do its job. It is therefore perfectly understandable that we also pay more and more attention to environmental issues in the Riigikogu. And because this is also done in society as a whole, of course, we are pleased about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U163	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I have a specific question about Amendment 2. It is very well mentioned here that representatives from groups of ecological, social and economic interest must participate in the working group. Why are there no representatives of cultural interest mentioned? After all, the forest is still one of the designers of our cultural space and cultural languages. I think it's a huge deficit in this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U165	I believe that culture here is divided into social and ecological culture. But your reasoning is correct. At the same time, I know that several cultural conferences and major cultural symposiums are dedicated to the subject of forests this year and next year. It has been an honor to be involved in their preparation. So your comment is correct, it must certainly be taken into account and why not also be included in the law in the future. In this case, however, the legislator has assumed that both the ecological and the social aspects are relevant to the cultural issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U166	Eerik-Niles Kross.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U167	You said that the subject has been under discussion for a year now, and that would be like a long time. Things are slow in forestry. Some plans are discussed in Finland for 20 years if communities do not agree. It seems to me that we are now witnessing a quite large crisis of confidence between RMK and, let's say, between the people and a large part of this hall. Right now, it is like RMK is involving the Riigikogu, not the Riigikogu is involving RMK. Would it still not be more reasonable to take time off and make it clear to the stupid members of the Riigikogu why such a thing is needed? We are now giving a couple of RMK officials the right to decide half of Estonia's forest land, decide what can be cut there and what cannot be cut. In the case of private owners, it's quite different. First of all, there are a lot of them and they have smaller pieces at their disposal, which does not put the entire Estonian forest at risk. But if we're just making noises about felling age, it's a very serious decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U168	I'll go over it then. Let's go through two thoughts together again. First of all, this decision was agreed in the Forestry Council, where there are representatives of all the parties involved, including the people you have repeatedly mentioned here. It was agreed that 27000 hectares of land and salumes would be protected on the territory of RMK. It's done. This was a counterbalance to the decision to lower the tree's felling age. Secondly, it covers only 0,2% of the area, i.e. trees growing in good habitats. Thirdly, as far as the comprehensive law is concerned, with my environmental education, I am very happy that we have so many nature friends in the Riigikogu. If we had discussed this matter five years ago, it would probably have received much less attention. So right now, I'm really happy. But once again, there are four or five very important points in this bill. First, the right of the Government of the Republic to impose restrictions on the surface area of the cutting area in order to ensure the natural balance of the forest. The size of this bar is still seven hectares, no more. Next, the involvement of RMK and the requirement to coordinate with the municipality. That was the summation of the thing that I got a verbal urva patch from the private forest union, so we're making the law of the forest a little too harsh. At the same time, I think it is more positive than we have been able to tighten up the law. But what you're saying turns out to be the opposite. I admit that as an environmental friend, I like the thinking of the Free Party and the suggestion that we do not talk separately about RMK and private forest owners. If we are talking about stricter restrictions, I really do not understand why we accept that, as you said, private owners are going to come from 26 centimeters anyway. Why aren't we harmonising? I would also say that if we want to harmonise, we will call again and discuss all these 100000 private forest owners. Why don't we tighten up the regulations that apply to them, too? When we look at nature, as Lauri Luik has written, there are no price tags in nature. In nature it does not matter whether it is a private forest or a state forest, we must look at it as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U169	Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U170	Thank you. I'll help you, Rainer! You here thought if all this had happened five years ago, it wouldn't have gotten any attention. I don't think five years ago a proposal to reduce the felling age of spruce would simply not have been brought to the Riigikogu! If it's not enough money, then we should talk about it honestly. After all, Rainer, you and I both understand that it is not possible to change the laws afterwards. If you bring the numbers, cutting volumes and dividends for comparison this year, the lowering of the felling age of the spruce in this year's RMK dividends and cutting volumes will not change anything. This is a longer-term problem and you probably have already taken into account in the country's budget strategy that in the future RMK will provide dividends that will enable investments to be made. If larger dividends can be taken from it, it is possible to fix a dead city hall at the cost of cutting down a living forest, which does not really make sense to repair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U171	Very nicely put, Mr. Balling! However, I refer once again to the letter from the Committee on the Environment, which has been read out from the outset, signed by Rainer as Chairman of the Vakra Commission, and which was unanimously supported by all the members of the committee, including Mr Kalle Palling. After all, we wrote a letter to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of the Environment and also to the Chairman of the Board of the State Forest Management Centre concerning the dividend income of RMK. Our very clear proposal was that in 2019 the dividend income of the State Forest Management Centre could be limited to EUR 10 million and not increased. As far as I am concerned, the Committee on the Environment has not yet passed over the proposal. So, Kalle, you and I have at least had some weight so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U172	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U173	Honourable waitress! There's one little thing that bothered me at this conference, and it still bothers me right now. The theme of this presentation is 'The life and activities of Rainer Vakra and a little bit of the Estonian forest'. I think, I do, I think it's right... The forest is impersonal, and it's a matter of nation, whether it's in front of the Vakra or behind the Vakra. In general, it's me-me-me-I can't tell, buddy, like this! It's just rude. But now: if you do a good thing with bad motives, then it's a good thing suspicious. Once again, I ask a very clear question, and I insist that the answer must not be offensively personal to me. Is one of the motives for your behaviour the fact that RMK's dividends relate to the budget? I look forward to a political response that does not begin with the words 'I personally'.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U174	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U175	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U176	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Rainer! Your ecological hypocrisy really amazes me. The way you have answered a number of questions makes me roll my eyes. It's such a good old demagogue school. Congratulations on that! I come back to my previous question concerning this conference. We all understand that the main problem with this law is that economic pressure on the forest has increased enormously. If the Committee on the Environment organises a conference on the same day that the legislative changes under economic pressure are being discussed in a large Chamber, it is simply not right. Do you admit that economic pressure is forcing this legislative change now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U177	On the contrary, I am trying specifically to say that according to feedback from persons involved in forest management in different ways, for the first time in the history of the Estonian state, we will have the opportunity to actually delineate the area of the cutting-up bar and set these limits in an accelerated manner. It's caused a lot of resentment. I would have been delighted if a good colleague, Artur Talvik, would have come there today and heard it. This is a very clear and very specific restriction, which is certainly not meant by the need for money, profit greed or other such things that you have mentioned. As far as the whole of this ecological story is concerned, I have pointed out several times that the points that are included in this draft offer for the first time an opportunity to frame the management of the Estonian forest. Nor can I fail to note that four of the six proposals of the Free Party were taken into account. In one case, you also realized that if such a wording went through in your soul, of course, you wished well, then the clear cutting techniques would grow to see that infinity, if the neighbours, regardless of each other, were able to submit cutting notifications within 12 months. Indeed, this proposal was not supported. However, if four out of the six proposals of the opposition have been taken into account, I would not dare to express the impression you did. I think we agree with you very much and in the same boat.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U178	Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U179	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on the Environment. I get the impression that if the law is handled in such a way that the public does not understand well, it will be set back. I myself have been in contact with private operators and I have also read in the media that this law is more of a fear of setbacks for the private sector and the sector as a whole. We met with the leader of RMK, who said that this change would rather be nice to have, but unlike you, he was not ashamed to say that it was necessary primarily for the purpose of generating revenue in RMK. I have a simple question: did you discuss in the Commission that there might be other ways of implementing the budget in the future rather than at the expense of the forest?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U180	No, I didn't. The budget issue has not been related to the Forest Act. Once again, it is possible for everyone in this Chamber to vote on this amendment today. I hope that the Reform Party will show determination by voting against the fall of the tree's shave. I also repeat that the Committee on the Environment was in favour of this not to fall, Mr Palling and Mr Vakra. We have exactly 101 possible voters. As an old wolves of Parliament, you personally know that whether or not this change is going to work depends on how those people who are in this Chamber today vote. So it's in all of our hands. At the same time, you could say a few positive words about the remaining amendments, but ladies and gentlemen have been modest in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U181	Igor Gräzin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U182	Now, here's the thing. I mean, you gave us a very big compliment. We're real professionals! And you also gave an example that the Riigikogu is so hard that it knows how large the area of one hectare is. We did it! We did it! But this raises the question of why this debate today is still so less professional. I mean, the first point is that the Committee on the Environment invites Valdur Mikita and other cultural and forest semiotics and everything starts with it. But you started with cutting volumes, all kinds of table-things, in other words, like you said, beautiful things like greed for profit and need for money. The expression that these are beautiful things is yours. Why did you start backwards and why is there no professional debate on such an important subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U183	Mr. Gräzin! We have reached a second reading with a bill entitled 'A bill to amend the Forest Act and the Nature Conservation Act'. As Chairman of the Commission and rapporteur for the Commission, I have to use the me-form and I have an obligation to give an overview of what proposals have been made in the Commission, how they were voted on and what happened between the first and second readings. Everything you are talking about was going on, and I do not know whether you were at the debate or not at the first reading of the draft. You should not confuse the stage in which we are dealing with the bill. If the Riigikogu supports this draft in one form or another, our third reading will be on 14 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U184	Please, Terje Trei!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U185	Thank you! Good waitress, good chairman of the committee! I'm confused. I understand that we in the Commission, almost unanimously, with only a few exceptions, decided that the shaven or the number of centimeters will now be harmonised. I'm confused. I am generally opposed to differences, and that is why I was also in favour of reducing the life expectancy of the so-called trees, since the private forest owners are already based on the number of centimeters. All in all, it's going to be the same thing. I do not recall that it would have been advisable to propose an increase in the number of centimeters or to ensure that private forest owners have the same conditions. Have I got something wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U186	Member of the Committee on the Environment, you must be commended. I also responded to the representatives of the Free Party. Indeed, 50% of Estonia's forests are based on the so-called 26 centimeter principle and the second 50% is based on the age of the trees. You have rightly understood that the only proposal to harmonise it is on the table, and no proposal to equalise it in any other way has been received. No one in this Chamber or outside the Chamber has made a different proposal to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U187	Please, Barbi Pilvre!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U188	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! You were on the committee against the fall of the tree's felling age. Did you argue with the abundance of species that occurs in spruce trees when they're 60 years old, or did you have some other arguments?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U189	I must say, listening to these questions, that there has been a question from one side and from the other, and I am glad that we have finally reached an ecological approach. From my background, I know that there are many different ways of thinking. It has been thought that owners who do not manage their forest today, or do not make any kind of cutting, are bad forest owners. On the contrary, I think that they are good forest owners. I have a background in the environment, and I think we could actually focus on species diversity. Friends, we understand in this hall that it doesn't matter from a nature point of view whether we are talking about a private forest or a state forest that is the owner. The puppies that live in the woods, believe me, they don't know who owns the specific forest according to the papers. Therefore, it is reasonable to harmonise the rules in any case. And where the rules apply, it's up to us in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U190	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U191	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Can you explain that in this Chamber, too, there is an expert opinion that the current growth calculation is not a criminal? There are completely different concepts of what we mean by growth and what the ratio of growth and cutting should be. Do you agree or can you confirm that we have everything correct in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U192	There have been different numbers, there have been different opinions. One confusing moment has been that when talking about growth, an unobserving listener does not notice whether it is an increase in economic forests or even forests. That's what's behind the different numbers. After all, a very large part of the Estonian forest is protected. When we talk about the economic forest, the growth rate is lower, but in view of the growth of Estonian forest, it is more than once. The increase in managed forests is 13.9 million cubic metres. Having met several times with the officials responsible for this statistics in several institutions, we have gained confidence that there is no reason to doubt these figures. As far as logging is concerned, the next Minister for the Environment, no matter who, one particular task we could give him from this hall: all transfer licences should be electronic. This means that we can see in real time what has been cut out of Estonia's forests. At present, this figure is 70%. There's a rumor that somewhere, there's a hole that transforms the statistics. But having been more familiar with the subject, it has become the impression that everything can be calculated. I believe that next year's task at the Ministry of the Environment could be to make all transfer licences electronic. This means that each of us can see in real time how much forest has actually been cut in Estonia, literally with the accuracy of cubic metres. I think that this would be the only right way in Estonia as an innovative e-state.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U193	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U194	Thank you, Rainer, for this educational discussion. I will finish by asking such a question. Let me get this straight. In fact, you share the view that it makes sense to move towards harmonisation of regulations in the economic forest. If we have given the owner the right to manage, whether it is a spruce, a cover or a pine tree, then in a forest where the state does not intervene by granting protection, the owner could decide for himself what is right at the moment to take down the trees. He does not have to wait for the pathologist to intervene when the value of the property has actually decreased. When it comes to RMK, as shareholders, we have actually lost the resource.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U195	Yeah, you can safely say that. I would like to reiterate that all forestry experts mentioned here, such as Tüür and Mr Lõhmus, are all members of the Forestry Council. And this principle was agreed in the Forestry Council. One of the important pillars was that 27000 hectares of land and grove forests would be fully protected, i.e. there would be no management. I guess these are the decision-making points. The Forestry Council believes that when we talk about an economic forest, it is reasonable to manage it, and when we talk about a forest where something needs to be protected, it must be protected. The line's gotta get in there. I, of course, think that the more we can protect the economic forest, the better. Therefore, I have been publicly reprimanded by the private forest federation on several occasions, but I really think that the forests of Estonia, including those that are manageable and in the hands of private owners, are ultimately part of the Estonian nature, the Estonian environment. In them, too, the owner should not be given the opportunity to do what he wants. There is no such possibility at present, in good growing places the tree must have a diameter of at least 26 cm or a tree of at least 60 years old. What is important is that we do not end up like what happened in the previous composition with another draft, which suggested that reasonable people should drink a glass of wine or something like that in Kadrioru Park. That sounds great! But it came to the conclusion that, unfortunately, we still have so-called tar drops among us, who think that if you are allowed to drink a glass of wine by not stirring others, then it also means that you can take a bottle of vodka and drink it at the Town Hall Square. It's the same in forestry. In my opinion, in Estonia we are not prepared to delegate all decision-making to a private owner who can do everything he wants on his territory. Therefore, the restrictions that we want to impose are, in any case, reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U196	Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U197	Thank you, good manager. Chairman of the Committee on the Environment! I'm gonna end up with a question like this. We live in rather revolutionary times, and the daily newspaper constantly tells us what changes in government. Do you know the position of the future Minister for the Environment on all these issues? On which side is it: is it more necessary to use the forest sustainably or to increase RMK's revenue? What's his position?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U198	Thank you, very good question! Unfortunately, I cannot answer that, we can certainly ask the future minister together. At the moment, Minister Marko Pomerants is, and I believe that he stands for the forest to be managed economically and economically, not just with budgetary needs in mind. But ultimately, good questioner, I must stress that we will not escape responsibility in this Chamber. You may ask Rainer Vakra personally 30 times, but the final decision will still be taken by all of us in this Chamber. The age of the fall in the tree comes to the vote here and it is known how many votes are needed. So no matter who the minister is, decisions are made by the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U199	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U200	Thank you. However, on this last thought: would it not be more appropriate to interrupt the second reading of this draft until we find out the position of the new minister? It would be very lame if we decided this once, once again. I very much hope that you will support this proposal by the Free Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U201	Thank you. I believe that the IRL is consistent in its ministerial choices and its policies. I don't think all the principles that have been protected and developed so far are now changing. And I still have to come back to the fact that the Free Party proposed six amendments to the draft amendment to the Forest Act, and the Committee on the Environment supported them by a consensus of four and the same was taken into account in substance. We didn't increase the ceiling. It was a bigger red towel in the eyes of all environmental friends than any other suggestion. The ceiling was 7 acres [7 ha] in size. That's the maximum. The average clear cutting distance in Estonia is 1.6 to 1.7 hectares and the maximum is 7 hectares. I cannot fail to mention once again the government's right to impose restrictions on forestry on a daily basis, the substantial increase in the licence requirements of the harvester manager, the involvement of municipalities, the notification and coordination of RMK. This draft contains a great many points that are clearly aimed at ensuring the ecological diversity and sustainability of Estonian forests. With regard to this so-called'six' issue, it was agreed in the Forestry Council in precisely this key that, in addition to the existing protected areas, 27000 hectares of forests were protected. This decision, my friends, will be made by us in this Chamber, I dare say, in the next hour. So there's no reason to talk about RMK, the RMK Council, about any invisible forces I don't know. This decision will be made by us in this Chamber, and I think that the Riigikogu has shown in today's discussion the ability to bite this nut.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U202	Dear waitress, No more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Arthur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U203	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Environment Commission! If you follow this debate here, frankly, the question arises, whose interests it was in bringing it to the bill counter. Why did this bill even start now, why did the Ministry of the Environment come up with such an initiative? I didn't get an answer. Okay, the current government may want to turn the law towards the budget implementation mechanism and towards increasing RMK's profits. Maybe there's an explanation. But, broadly speaking, looking at these problems and looking at these solutions as well, it can be said that there has actually been much more confusion than there was before this law was broken down in Estonian forestry. New regulations will also be laid down for private forest owners, and so I will come back to my question: I do not understand why we have opened up this law at all. These debates that have taken place in society still show that one can be very sure: the balance point in Estonian forestry is out of hand, and it is out of hand because there is too much economic pressure to cut up the forest in Estonia. And this economic pressure, regrettably, concerns, above all, the changes that this draft intends to introduce, serve above all the purpose of making greater profit from the state forest. I want to mention three things that should be emphasised before we vote on this law. First of all, we do not have a balance between different values and hierarchys. As has been said on several occasions here too: economic interests must not dominate ecological and social interests and, as Krista Aru said, cultural interests linked to our forest. One more thing I am absolutely convinced of: there is no adequate information on the state of our forest. Data on all measurements are so varied and conflicting that no agreement has been reached. Certainly one of the most important conclusions is that a social mode of action is needed to ensure a balanced management of all values, social and economic values. Our wish is not to be rushed by the adoption of amendments to the Forest Act, so that the various parties meet in one more room and agree on where there is this balance point in the Estonian forest. Only after that can we move on. As far as I am concerned, this progress could also be made in the new development plan, which is quietly being prepared. Honourable Riigikogu, we must understand that the draft amendment to the Forest Act must probably be brought back to the table, because we need to reach a social agreement. Unfortunately, it is not now. To conclude my speech, I announce that the Group of the Estonian Free Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of the bill 396 and the reason is that there are several reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U204	Thank you. These several reasons have been accepted by the Governing Board. Next please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U205	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, [[Sighs.]] I listened to Rainer's speech here for a long time and, of course, I feel sorry for him that he had to stand on the remote for so long. It was as if it were a naturalist, a person who wanted to preserve the biodiversity of the forest, but it was reflected from all his answers that Rainer was actually defending state capitalism and that it would be possible to withdraw larger dividends from the state's profit union. However, if you look at a number of privatisations, it makes perfect sense. I will, for example, bring up the question of Levira and the TV Tower, which was similarly put on a socialist bulwark. Rainer, you're a socialist and you're supposed to protect public capitalism. Right! But when I come back to the Forest Act, I think this is a package of extremely unfortunate changes, especially in the communicative key. Many people, including many cultural figures, have stood up in a social debate because it is as if a private forest owner gets hit there, a forest industrialist gets hit there. Artur Talvik also called and mocked the environmental committee of the Riigikogu, because on the same day a forest industry conference was held in the Riigikogu. It's been four years at exactly the same time in the same week, so there's no need to look for a "back door" or a plan. In my opinion, things must be discussed with the industrialists here in the Riigikogu so that members of the Riigikogu can also take part in the debate in their busy schedule. It would be rather embarrassing if there was a conference in the Riigikogu and no one from the Riigikogu would go there. As my good colleague Kristen Michal said, this very unfortunate amendment seeks to reduce the felling age of the spruce because, in the long run, I stress that in the long run, I will get more out of RMK. Of course, this year will not be able to change anything afterwards, and so dividends will not be taken this year by cutting the age of felling, but by abandoning investment. But in the longer term, the country's budgetary strategy can record a larger number in this area. That's it! But I was going to quote Kristen here and, indeed, this amendment will put the future of the whole sector under attack. All the emotions with which the wounds were torn open were not reasonable. Perhaps it is not wise to fix the felling age of spruce and forest as a fixed number. Perhaps the relationship between growth and cutting is important. Surely it is important that the owners be treated equally. Then why are we lowering our felling age to 60 years? Instead, let us determine how we will manage our forests in the future! In fact, forests should be managed in such a way that when the forest rots, we do not have to wait 20 years to see the trees rot. In this case, it should be possible to start chopping in the economic forest. But now they're doing half a move, and that half a move is being made to take dividends bigger than RMK in the future. A lot has been asked why owners are treated differently. In my opinion, the fact that half of the Estonian forest is at the disposal and management of RMK also places RMK more responsibility for preserving the biodiversity and diversity of our natural environment. You cannot approach RMK as one owner of half the state forest and the rest of the forest owners are exactly the same owners. No, it's not! RMK will certainly have a much greater social responsibility than any small forest owner, who will certainly all view the forest as Lauri Luik wrote in Postimees today that the forest is a poor man's coat. The forest has been managed and managed from generation to generation. Certainly these changes, which make it easier for private forest owners to submit notifications and manage all of them, are steps in the right direction. This is certainly not about lowering the tree age in the state forest. That is why I cannot, and I know that many colleagues are also able to support this draft today. Instead, we support the Free Party amendment and also...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U206	Would a good speaker like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U207	Yeah, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U208	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U209	We support Jaanus Kariladi and Anneli Ot's amendment to the paragraph, which reduces the felling age of spruce by 20 years, to be deleted from this draft. But to RMK, the Ministry of the Environment and the new Minister for the Environment, who was in this Chamber a little while ago, this important discussion will not be attended by the newer tie and shirt, I wish you success in these future discussions! And if RMK still has things to do, let's talk about RMK! The Minister for the Environment must also take up the protection of private forest owners if anger is unduly directed against private forest owners. This is certainly not what the forest industry or private forest owners deserve to see them hit today, too. As I said before in my question, to all those people who, in this hall, are looking around with anxious faces because they are harmed by what is being done to the forest, and some are probably because they do not quite understand what the reduction in felling age really entails, cutting their age is not a microscopic change. This concerns 75% of Estonian spruce and 35% of pine trees. This is a very serious change. Do those people who signed the coalition agreement agree that they are going to spend a lot of money on the renovation of the city hall? Do they know that the annual additional dividends from the State Forest Management Centre may go to finance the attempt to resurrect the dead city hall? There will be no conferences in the future, there will not be an enormous increase in conference tourism. It would make more sense to contribute to nature tourism in Estonia, because the forest is an asset that many other countries no longer have. If we look at the share of tourism in gross domestic product, these figures are completely comparable to those of the forest and timber industries and their contribution to gross domestic product. So, indeed, I very much ask you to support the amendments tabled by Anneli Ott and Jaanus Karilaid and the Group of the Estonian Free Party! If you decided by conscience, you would probably at least consider supporting them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U210	Next on the line, please! Colleagues Artur Talvik, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U211	Kalle Palling mentioned my name, and I would like to make it clear that neither I nor the whole Group of the Free Party had any desire to pronounce or mock the Estonian forest industry. On the contrary, we understand very well the role played by the Estonian forest industry. But the fact that the Committee on the Environment is so stupidly planning a conference on the forest industry on the same day that the important points of the Forest Act are being discussed in the hall is a very fucked-up act. It can also stain the forest industry.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U212	Does my colleague, Kristen Michal, have a reply or a wish to speak on the matter? A microphone for Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U213	I have a line. I just want to say something to Kalle Palling's words, just in case, so that the new minister, Siim Valmar Kisler, doesn't look bad. He told me he was going to pull out the tooth of a younger child, so he doesn't pick a tie or a jacket. Don't think bad of him!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U214	Thanks for the information. Now we all know that, and we are also waving to my colleague, Siim Valmar Kisler, who is currently on the balcony. Now I'd like to ask for a speaker chair, Küllik's Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U215	Good vice chairman! Good ambassadors! Indeed, the Free Party Group has taken this active role in order to speak on matters of major importance in society. And forest as our cultural, sociological and economic assets is an important subject to be devoted to. It is very strange when the chairman of the committee ridicules the political groups and the MPs, who pay attention to the various issues on this issue. The forest sector protects the debate! But let us look, for example, at the composition of the RMK Council: there are also two socialists and two representatives of the IRL. There are no opposition representatives! There is no way a debate can arise and this possibility has been deliberately eliminated. And now they're coming to defend this bill as a noble self-style ecologically educated person! This is not appropriate in a democratic society. We need to understand that the open debate is more useful in terms of the integrity of our forest. I would also like to make this remark that we were talking here about the SMI as a method of forest inventory. When you open Wikipedia, you will see that Wikipedia says that as a method of measuring an SMI, it is useful to monitor trends, but not to make long-term assessments. Therefore, not all of our increment calculations can be based on the SMI alone. That is why we have emphasised: please, various scientists, forest owners, institutions, sit down, keep your feet and find a middle road that would make the calculations certain! We want to make sure we don't cut fingers for future generations by cutting the forest. It is the question of forest growth that gives rise to mistrust in this Chamber as well. That is why we cannot say today: yes, it is sensible and sensible to lower the felling age of the spruce. At the same time, we read in the media that we have 25% of the spruce cut more than we could. And rather, it is very clear that the spruce's shave should be frozen. There are also many questions we are not talking about here today. It is strange to me that the ecologically educated person has not spoken of the root-washing that has reached our forests as a result of poor forest management. Hopefully, thanks to technological progress and our higher awareness, we will not create new fires. We are among the best compared to Europe, of course, we have healthier forests, we have what to show. There was an interesting meeting this morning in our group with one of the interest groups. There was a bit of a scratch in the story that, yes, I want to take down and sell a forest with a 36-year-old good bonite on a plot of land, because I need that money. The word'sale' was repeated almost at the beginning of each sentence! This raises the question of whether we are still on the right footing. I understand we need to renew the forest to improve her health. Juveniles, thinning cuts, clear cuttings, whatever must be done. But it must be done in such a way that our forest is preserved, and we have property to grow on. If we say yes in this Chamber today to the lowering of the felling age of spruce, we, as members of the Riigikogu, amplify the crisis of confidence in our society and we cannot allow that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U216	Next, please, Andres Metsoja!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U217	Dear Vice-Chairman, Dear Members, Good Artur, maybe we should get back to the forest industry and the lobby. I understand that Parliament has always had a meeting in the first week of June with the forestry sector, where forestry issues are discussed. It's not some speciality or some topical lobby, it's more of a tradition. And I think the traditions should go on. It's a good thing to say that when they cut into the woods, the chips fly. Figuratively speaking, when the law of the forest is made, chips fly. Some chips are serious, some maybe a little quirky, but it is clear that the forest theme is always close to the Estonians. And that's very good. Our society has reached a certain breaking point in general. Younger generations who come on have grown in a second information room than older generations and the forest has seen other values than just economic benefits. In today's discussion, I did not like this 'turned' approach to all of our assets managed by RMK, which I am a member of the Council as a representative of this hall. You see, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that these spruce trees, which grow on a land with high bony roads, make up 0.2% of the entire forest land. To turn the debate into a long-term source of revenue with which to fill the state budget, I find it strange. Perhaps we could talk about perhaps leaving 27,000 acres of old land and salumes in use and chopping there. In fact, there is a very big compromise on this point. And that compromise makes sense. We have spoken in the public, and also in this Chamber, several times, that if we take areas into protection, it must be compensated. It was only recently that we had enormously wondered about this in relation to the problems of the private sector. But I think that state property is exactly the same property, and if we have decided that it is an economic forest, then people are responsible for managing it, not protecting it. In return, we have taken steps so that 25% of forest land is protected and 10% of it is strictly protected. In my opinion, this is a very healthy attitude when, as a society, we finally reach the stage where we trust the owner and really let him manage his forest land. It is very wrong for us to have a spruce planted on farmland during the Soviet period cut down only to the intervention of a pathologist. In fact, proper wood that could be used to build houses may have become fuel wood by then.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U218	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Ladies and gentlemen, please give the waitress a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U219	I understand that the hall is relatively saturated with this issue, but I do not think we should demagogicise this debate. The forest must always be taken seriously; it must be protected; it must be managed. And I think that the Forest Act has been discussed by economists, scientists and forest managers, so we have taken a step closer to public perceptions. However, much remains to be done, and we will work to do so! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U220	Thank you. There are no further requests to speak. We have received 18 amendments and we will examine them. The first proposal has been presented by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is to take this into account in part. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The ninth amendment tabled by the Committee on the Environment, the position of the commission: take full account. The tenth amendment has been tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Anneli Ott and Jaanus Karilaid, the position of the commission is to disregard it. And now we have such an interesting situation that there are both requests for speeches and speeches on the ground. Speaking on the spot, Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U221	Thank you, Mr President. I am asking for this motion to be voted, because Anneli Ott and Jaanus Kariliid are fully in agreement with the Free Party's proposal not to reduce the felling age of spruce.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U222	Got it. Colleagues Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U223	To make the right suggestion from Andres. Everyone, please press the green button!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U224	Thank you. Let us, of course, put it to a vote, but before that we will begin preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 10. Members of the Riigikogu Anneli Ott and Jaanus Karilaid have tabled this proposal; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Ladies and gentlemen, please take a stand and vote. 28 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 40 against and 2 abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 11 to the draft has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the position of the commission is to disregard it. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U225	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, I ask that we vote on this proposal. And since it can be seen that those people who would be willing to support us are not, as in the case of the previous proposal in the Chamber, I ask for a five-minute break so that they can come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U226	Five minutes break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U227	Honourable Riigikogu, as you can see, was a recess at exactly the right time. Many of us had a good opportunity to congratulate today's birthday children, who are our good colleague Enn Frontland. Happy birthday to you again from all of us! [[Let's hear it.]] We will now vote on Amendment 11. It has been submitted by the Estonian Free Party Group; the position of the commission is to ignore it. Ladies and gentlemen, please take a stand and vote. 31 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 45 against and one member of the Riigikogu was impartial. Amendment 11 was therefore not supported. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the position of the commission is to disregard it. This proposal is not to be voted on in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act. The 14th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 15th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 16th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 17th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 18th and last amendments have been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and the position of the commission is to take full account of this. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 396 be terminated. However, we have also received the proposal of the Estonian Free Party Group to interrupt the second reading of draft 396 and we will go to the preparation of this vote. I shall put to the vote the second reading of the draft proposal of the Estonian Free Party to interrupt. Please take a stand and vote. 26 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 396 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U228	The ninth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on study grants and student loans and the Act on Employment Capacity Support initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the Chair's Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Hunt!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U229	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable fellows! I will give an overview of what happened in the Committee on Social Affairs in preparation for the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on student grants and student loans and the Act on Employment Capacity Allowance. I also recall that the first reading took place on 18 April, the deadline for the amendments was 3 May, and the Social Affairs Committee, of course, also addressed the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu for an opinion. A little bit of what this bill contains. Parents of children with deep disabilities had the right to write off student loans already under the Act adopted in spring 2013, which entered into force in 2014. On this basis, this right has been extended from the parents of children with deep disabilities to the parents of children with severe disabilities. The procedure has also been accelerated and made more effective. So far, the Ministry of Education and Research worked on the cancellation of student loans for parents of children with a deep disability and the Ministry of Finance at 80 to 100 percent of the student loans for inability to work. From now on, the parties to the proceedings will be the borrower and the credit institution in debt relations, one institution representing the country and this is the Social Insurance Board. This will certainly make the whole procedure more flexible, faster and also clearer. Now an overview of what took place on Monday, 29 May in the Committee on Social Affairs. In addition to the members of the committee, Anneli Habicht, CEO of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, and Natalja Omelshenko, adviser to the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, were invited. The committee had turned, as I mentioned, to the Riigikogu Committee on Culture for an opinion and the Committee on Culture gave us a supportive opinion. The Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and the Association of Estonian Student Unions gave their opinion. They very much support the draft as regards the extension of the benefit to parents of children with severe disabilities, but expressed the opinion that, in fact, there should also be support for those who have not been identified as having a disability after taking out loans, but in whose family children and parents with a deep or severe disability have started to study. The Estonian Student Association presented its written position; they did not show up, but it was the content of their proposal. Anneli Habicht, as I said, participated in the session by the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People. In response to the question raised, Ms Omeltshenko explained that the cancellation of the student loan was not to support the education of parents of disabled children or persons with no working capacity. The aim of the draft is to alleviate potential difficulties in coping with unexpected difficulties. So that's the position. There were also views on how these parents could still be supported in the future. After all, every person acquiring education is of great value to Estonia, and those parents who care for their disabled children deserve some support. Both the Student Union and the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People will find this. At this meeting, the Commission took the following consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 7 June, to propose that the second reading be closed and that the draft be sent to third reading when the second one is closed, by 14 June, then by Wednesday next week, and then by the final vote on the draft. The Committee on Social Affairs also discussed this issue on 5 June and then decided on procedural documents on the draft. That is my little overview of this bill is basically limited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U230	Thank you. You have questions too. First please, Monika Haukanõmm!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U231	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! Perhaps you could open up some historical background, explaining why it had previously been decided that parents who apply for student loans would receive help in the way the bill states? This regulation does not extend to all parents of children with severe and deep disabilities. Please explain simply for the sake of history. We know that there is a very specific reason why such a decision was made at the time. This knowledge may explain a little about the position of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and the Association of Estonian Student Unions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U232	Thank you very much for your question. Indeed, we also talked about this in the Commission. The representative of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People received this information from the Commission, but perhaps indeed for the sake of the verbatim and other good colleagues, this explanation is important. It may be said that this law was the beginning of a mother's story in Touch Points magazine. This mother is Kaire Parts and I'm about to say to the verbatim that I have permission to name her. The story was about how he started studying as a young person, studying higher education, and graduating from higher education. He had taken a student loan to study. When she got married, a child was born with a deep disability. The mother was forced to stay home to care for the child. He couldn't work in what he learned, but he had to pay back a very large student loan. This story was, in fact, an incentive to initiate this law. As has already been said, in spring 2013, it was adopted and launched by the Social Democrats. It is true that we have launched a bill aimed at deleting the student loan for the parent of a child with both deep and severe disabilities. During the process, I have explained that the Government of the Republic came to a negative position on this draft. Our Social Affairs Committee was then chaired by Margus Tsahkna and the current Mayor of Tartu, Mr Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U233	Mr. Glass.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U234	Yes! I'm so sorry! Mr. Glass led this committee. They discussed this bill, and it gave rise to a draft, which provided for the possibility of deleting student loans for parents of children with a deep disability. The current government coalition has agreed that this regulation will extend to the parents of children with severe disabilities, and I think it is right to treat parents in a difficult position in the same way. After all, they have taken a student loan and are now in difficulty in repaying it because a child has been born into a family with severe or deep disability. One reason was that, at the time, higher education was largely subject to a fee and that many could not obtain higher education without student loans at all. At present, however, higher education is generally free of charge. Certain costs are of course always, but there is no compulsory annual fee. A loan is always taken in a situation where a person knows what his or her chances of repayment are. This decision will be carefully considered. However, I very much agree, and it was also the idea in the Commission that parents who have taken student loans and wish to pursue higher education, but they have difficulties in repaying the loan, should somehow support them, whether with student support or in some other way. However, this is already the aim of the following drafts. I would like to stress once again that the aim of this draft is to supplement the law that came into force in 2014 so that equal rights and opportunities are guaranteed for parents of children with deep and severe disabilities. The limit between severe and deep trees is sometimes very vague.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U235	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No, I don't. In that case, we will not open negotiations. I would like to stress once again that no amendments were tabled, so the proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 417. Second reading of the bill is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U236	The tenth item is the second reading of draft law 407 on the resolution of labour disputes initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a presentation by Maris Lauri, member of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U237	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will review the procedure for the draft law on the resolution of labour disputes after first reading in the Committee on Social Affairs. Let me remind you that the first reading took place on April 12th. The deadline for amendments was 27 April at 5.15 p.m. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups. However, several interest groups submitted their proposals and opinions, namely the Estonian Judicial Association, the Estonian Bar Association, the Labour Inspectorate, the Central Organisation of Trade Unions of the Workers' Trade Unions TALO and the Estonian Trade Union Confederation. There were also several amendments from the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Committee on Social Affairs dealt with this draft at three meetings: 15 and 30 May and 5 June. On 15 May the Commission discussed amendments to the draft with representatives of interest groups and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Stakeholders presented their views, the Ministry of Social Affairs gave explanations, members of the Commission were able to ask questions, receive explanations and discuss possible solutions. On 30 May, a debate was held on specific amendments, involving representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs. As a result of the debate, the wording of a few amendments was clarified. At the same session, procedural decisions were also taken, which I refer to here. It was proposed that the draft be placed on the agenda for the plenary session on 7 June, that the second reading be closed, that the draft be sent to third reading when the second one is closed by 14 June, and that a final vote be proposed thereafter. All these decisions were consensual. At its meeting on 5 June, procedural documents were approved, with some linguistic and regulatory corrections. The following is an overview of the topics and amendments that were at the debate on 15 and 30 May. The question of financing changes arose at the meeting on 15 May. A representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs said that there would be no additional resources for the Labour Inspectorate, but a written procedure would be set up, which should be cheaper and also allow better use of resources. The Ministry is involved in planning the financial resources needed to pay the heads of labour dispute committees. The question is that there is an increase in remuneration. The circumstances surrounding the procedure for selecting the heads of labour dispute committees were also discussed. According to the draft, managers are hired on an open-ended contract, but have to undergo an accreditation every three years. There were three issues. Firstly, whether the manager should be a fixed-term or permanent contract, secondly, how long the contract should be or how often the accreditation should take place and, thirdly, whether the accreditation should take place at all. The last question was raised by the trade unions. The representatives of the Ministry justified the choice by admitting that each option has its own advantages and disadvantages. As a result of the discussions, the Commission's draft initially maintained the solution proposed by the Ministry of Social Affairs. There was further discussion on the settlement of mutual claims, the dispute on the compromise, where it was found that, when the compromise is reached, the chairman of the Labour Dispute Committee must ensure that the parties understand the content of the compromise unambiguously. It must not confirm a compromise which does not meet the interests of both parties. In conclusion, it was considered that no additional provisions need to be added, such as the request to withdraw the compromise. It was discussed how to cover the costs of the proceedings. The principle is that the costs are borne by the parties themselves. This led to a debate on the organisation of sign language translation and the cost coverage. The representatives of the Ministry and Labour Inspectorate explained that the Labour Dispute Committee has traditionally been approached by a member of its family. Later, the Ministry sent information to the members of the Commission specifying how this problem has been resolved in practice. The answer was satisfactory and the subject was no longer dealt with in the forthcoming Commission meetings. The Labour Inspectorate proposed to supplement the draft with the right of workers posted to Estonia to apply to the Labour Dispute Committee. This right had arisen in December last year, but was not included in this bill. The question of the subordinateity of labour disputes was also raised, particularly in cases where labour claims are merged. Now for the amendments. In total there were 29 amendments, all of which received consensus support at the Commission meeting on 30 May. There were quite a lot of amendments, but it was mostly a revision of the wording, which makes the draft text more understandable and easier to understand. Inaccuracies or erroneous references in the original text were removed, for example, the word 'party' is replaced by 'party', etc. Several amendments relate to the fact that there was some confusion in the original version of the draft with the issuer of the regulation concerned, either issued by the Labour Dispute Committee or by the President of the Commission. Of course, the President of the Commission is still issuing the regulation. A number of amendments were therefore tabled. I will also suspend some of the more substantive amendments. The first amendment concerns the right of workers posted to Estonia to apply to the Labour Dispute Committee. The second amendment introduces the term 'work dispute'. The third proposal allows for a higher variation in the salaries of the heads of labour dispute committees. Originally, the salary was 90 to 100% of the basic salary of the national conciliator, and now 80 to 100% of it is laid down. The justification was that the workload varies between committees. Amendment 17 states that the application submitted at a later date will be combined with the first application submitted for joint examination. Amendment 29 concerns the entry into force of the draft. If, in general, the Act enters into force on 1 January 2018, paragraphs 67 and 68 enter into force in general. These are transitional provisions on how to move from the current system to the new system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U238	Thank you. There are no questions for the rapporteur. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. Then I won't open negotiations. 29 amendments to this draft have been received from the lead committee and we will examine them. Amendment 1, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, position of the commission: take full account. Amendment 2 is the position put forward by the Committee on Social Affairs, which is the opinion of the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 3 is tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, the position of the commission: take full account. Amendment 4, author's Social Affairs Committee, position of the commission: take full account. Amendment 5 is the position put forward by the Committee on Social Affairs, which is the position of the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 6 is the position put forward by the Committee on Social Affairs, which is the opinion of the commission: take full account. Amendment 7 is the position put forward by the Committee on Social Affairs, which is the opinion of the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 8 is the position put forward by the Committee on Social Affairs, which is the opinion of the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 9 is the position put forward by the Committee on Social Affairs, which is the opinion of the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 10 is the position put forward by the Committee on Social Affairs, which is the opinion of the commission: take full account. The 11th amendment is the position of the Committee on Social Affairs, which is presented by the lead committee: take full account. The 12th amendment is the position of the Committee on Social Affairs, which is the opinion of the commission: take full account. The 13th amendment is the position of the Committee on Social Affairs, which is presented by the lead committee: take full account. The 14th amendment is the position of the Committee on Social Affairs, which is the opinion of the commission: take full account. The 15th amendment is the position of the Committee on Social Affairs, which is the opinion of the commission: take full account. The 16th amendment is the view of the Committee on Social Affairs, which is presented by the commission: take full account. The 17th amendment is the position of the Committee on Social Affairs, which is the opinion of the commission: take full account. The 18th amendment is the position of the Committee on Social Affairs, which is the opinion of the commission: take full account. The 19th amendment is the position of the Committee on Social Affairs, which is presented by the lead committee: take full account. The 20th amendment is the position of the Committee on Social Affairs, which is presented by the commission of reference: take full account. The 21st amendment is the position of the Committee on Social Affairs, which is presented by the commission: take full account. The 22nd amendment is the position of the Committee on Social Affairs, which is presented by the commission: take full account. The 23rd amendment is the position put forward by the Committee on Social Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The 24th amendment is the position of the Committee on Social Affairs, which is the opinion of the commission: take full account. The 25th amendment is the position of the Committee on Social Affairs, which is presented by the commission: take full account. The 26th amendment is the position of the Committee on Social Affairs, which is the opinion of the commission: take full account. The 27th amendment is the position of the Committee on Social Affairs, which is the opinion of the commission: take full account. The 28th amendment is the position put forward by the Committee on Social Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. And the 29th amendment is also the position of the Committee on Social Affairs, which is presented by the lead committee: take full account. We have examined the amendments to draft 407; the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 407. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U239	Today's 11th item is the second reading of the Act amending the Act on the President of the Republic and the President's Rules of Procedure Act 436 initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like to ask Jüri Adams, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for the presentation of the chair by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U240	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The first reading of this bill was two weeks ago when we had a long night sitting. We discussed it quite early this morning, around 5:00 a.m. Since then, no proposal to amend the draft has been received. Neither has the Commission itself made any amendments. In the meantime, the Government of the Republic has given a favourable, supportive assessment of the draft. If there were rules of procedure such as once before when I was in the Riigikogu, we could have adopted such a draft at second reading, but right now our brilliant yellow book requires us to go to third reading, too, even though none of us has the right to make any amendments. That's all I'm doing right now. If there's any questions, I'd be happy to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U241	Thanks to the waitress! There don't seem to be any questions. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? I don't want to, then I won't open negotiations. As the rapporteur said, there were no amendments to the draft. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 436. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U242	The 12th item on the agenda is the second reading of the draft Act 432 amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws resulting from the cessation of the activities of rural governments initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Mr Padar, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for a presentation by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U243	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft for second reading at its meeting on 29 and 30 May. Seven amendments were tabled by 24 May. Their author was the Estonian Free Party Group. A total of 15 amendments were received when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs included proposals for them. I would like to mention the seven amendments made by the Free Party Group in two blocks. The first block concerns the supervision of administrative acts of local authorities. According to the current regulation, supervision of administrative acts would go to the Ministry of Justice. Colleagues have thought that this supervision should go to the Chancellor of Justice, and the people of the Free Party Group have proposed this in two amendments. In the Commission's debate, it was also stated that the Ministry of Justice alone might not be enough and perhaps the Chancellor of Justice would be the right place. They also asked if the Chancellor of Justice had been consulted. The people of the Office of the Chancellor of Justice had not been consulted during this debate. When I later discussed the matter with them myself, it turned out that this would mean creating a completely new capacity for the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, and this is simply not possible in this limited time. The Commission therefore supported the continuation of the monitoring of administrative acts by the Ministry of Justice, as initially proposed. The second block of amendments by the Free Party Group concerned regional planning. It is currently the case that county planning is planned to be responsible for the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, the organisation of the development of the county stays with the joint local government organisation. It would seem reasonable that a joint local government organisation would also be left to the county planning side. The problem is quite understandable, but it was nevertheless found that in this case, where county planning is part of the state's remit, it should remain the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. There should be no such greater contradiction or problem here. As the theme of planning has developed its own standards over the years, they are not wanted to change them in this case. At the same time, however, it is highly prepared that, if local government associations have formed over time, they are strong and can handle their tasks, then regional planning can also move towards a joint local government organisation. At the moment, however, it would be more reasonable to leave it with the Ministry of Finance. Now there are the amendments made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In general, these are changes of a technical nature, such as those concerning the State Support Services Centre. The State Support Services Centre will be reorganised into a government agency. The State Support Services Centre, in particular as regards land mortgages, must be able to make administrative decisions independently. The amendment was also made with regard to the introduction of the regional decorations. The amendment provides that the Ministerial Regulation on the establishment of decorations for counties will continue to apply following the repeal of the mandate rule on the basis of which it was granted on 1 January 2018. So this means that it is possible to pass on the decorations of the county in the future. The Ministry of Finance requested that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs be accompanied by an amendment according to which the functions of manager of state assets are performed by the Land Administration in the cases provided for in the Land Reform Act and its regulations. This amendment was also supported. One amendment concerned the fact that the Government of the Republic may designate a ministry which has the power to authorise a body empowered to exercise the rights of founding or membership in state-owned non-profit organisations and foundations. The delegated authority is a public authority in whose possession the sovereign authority has transferred the assets under its control. An amendment was also introduced to clarify the competence of civil status officers in the county centres. The content of one amendment was that the application for a new first name, surname or personal name cannot be submitted digitally. If a person wishes to obtain a new first name, last name or personal name, he or she must address the institution in person. This was an overview of the amendments that were discussed. The commission decided to submit the draft for second reading on the agenda of the session of the Riigikogu on 7 June and to propose that the second reading be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U244	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U245	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! An absolutely necessary draft at this stage of the development of our society. But we also know that the county government has many other functions in addition to the roles and areas set out in this draft. Are you in the coalition discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs about this, for example, what about the security councils set up for all rural governments, which deal with the whole issue of county security in the long term and, of course, the resolution of current situations?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U246	I will be honest with you that this issue has not been discussed separately either in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or in the Committee on State Reform. In the Committee on State Reform, we have had this draft almost three times before us and there has also been a representative of both associations of self-government, the Cities Union and the Rural Self-Government Union, but this issue has not been raised.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U247	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U248	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Commission waitress! We have discovered in the group that around 30.35% of the amendments do not really relate to the abolition of the reform of rural governments. Did you discuss in the Commission why this has happened? Was it because of the comfort position of government agencies that if anything needs to be changed, we are already bringing it in here? What are the Commission's observations or conclusions? We have considered in our group whether to propose an amendment to exclude all of these, because such changes definitely need to be discussed in the various committees. But we found that since the county governments have really lived their time, we are not going to slow down the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U249	Once again, it is fair to say that we did not discuss this issue at either of the meetings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs during the procedure for this draft. It would therefore also be interesting to look at your review in order to see what amendments are then that do not directly concern this process. We did not have such a question in the Commission's discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U250	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U251	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I will continue in the footsteps of my colleague Kalle Laanet. The rural governments carry more, some less, some also had a sense of regional identity and cohesion. Is and how much did the Commission discuss whose ownership it would remain? Whose job is that in the country anyway? This was clearly the task of the rural governments; they did so in very different ways, but they certainly did.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U252	Thanks for asking. I cannot say that this has been discussed separately in the Commission. However, this has been discussed in various previous debates, both at the Riigikogu's Committee on State Reform and at county visits. And I do not know of any already existing or future joint local government organisations that would not be willing to assume this identity. This readiness is entirely there. Yes, there have been a lot of questions about who is organising 100 events in the Republic of Estonia, as they are coming soon enough, already in February. But as far as I've had personal contacts with the joint local government organisations, they've all said they can handle this. I think they're gonna handle this nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U253	Kalle Laane, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U254	Thank you. I'll continue along the same line. One of the key roles of rural governments is the organisation of public transport, including air, ferry and bus traffic. What happens after 1 January? Who's the partner? What took place within the framework of the draft discussed by the Commission was, after all, a total blurring by the MKM. They couldn't answer any questions in that key. What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U255	It is currently agreed that public transport companies will have to ensure transport by 1 January. If they don't, then the Road Administration will take over these tasks, that's what we all know. Maybe I can tell you on January 2nd whether or not the hole is in or out. I would really like very much to hope that in the process of redeploying tasks there will not be a situation where the islanders do not know who has been ordered to cancel the midnight ferry. I do not believe that we will have a situation in which MKM does not respect or attach importance to any guidance or proposal coming from the level below when making its decisions. Having been inside this whole debate, I seriously believe that all such decisions of the midnight ferry will be taken in such a way that local people will get it too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U256	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U257	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Let us admit that this draft is, in principle, a cluster bill with many aspects. In the meantime, the Chairman of the Riigikogu has sent a letter to the chairmen of committees with a mandate from the Council of Elders entitled 'Inclusion of the second committee in the draft procedure'. The letter points out that such involvement is too rare for us, but it would make sense to deal with draft laws. Maybe this letter came a little late for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I think you're having trouble with the chairmen here at all. I don't think there's a chairman at the moment. Has the Commission been able to do so, and has it used this opportunity to address other committees, either on public transport issues or on a number of other aspects? Can we say that the Riigikogu has handled the draft properly?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U258	It is true that, when discussing the draft, we also talked about the fact that it would be good practice for such large and voluminous drafts to be sent to other committees to express their opinion. Personally, that's what I'm thinking, too. However, we have not addressed other committees for an opinion on this draft. There's definitely one reason for this, which I'm not going to hide, that's the time side. This has to be borne in mind that in two or three months, where there has been a great deal of knowledge of where this bill is going, this has been discussed well within the Riigikogu at many levels, but no position has really been asked from other committees. My personal opinion is that, in view of the future, it is reasonable to ask other committees for input and views on such voluminous drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U259	Hatter, the second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U260	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Commission waitress! You also mentioned limited time. It must be noted that, as a result of the important activities currently under way, quite a number of the services provided by the state automatically move to other state institutions, i.e. services that have been offered locally, will be centralised in Tallinn. Does the Commission intend to order or produce an analysis in the near future or to develop a safeguard mechanism? For example, in the case of plans, it has been said that in two years, solutions are intended to ensure that county planning stays on or on the ground. What are the guarantees on the part of the Commission that this temporary solution, as has always been emphasised in the debates, will not remain permanent?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U261	The Commission's guarantee is a well-formed protocol. If, in essence, I have tried to continue to think in my mind about what further moves are and how this whole process is going to take place, then one thing that is clear is that for a lot of things, it is now kind of a notional decision to do so, but it is also understood that there are risks to one or the other. These risks have also been highlighted very specifically, for example, by the Association of Municipalities and the Cities. These have not been directly amendments, but so-called hazard statements. This is certainly a very important material for the future. In the first half of next year, we will see how this transfer of tasks has gone and whether, for example, funding has actually come to the fore or not. Is there somewhere behind any of the wordings that Satan is hiding? This particularly concerned the social sphere, or does the wording just need to be corrected? So the whole guarantee is that there is a very clear record of the procedure, a very clear protocol. And reasonable state control would in this case look like an assessment of these danger points as the process progresses and see if there is a need to reverse something or if there is a way forward. For example, is there a real situation where funding from the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice should be doubled in order for the Chancellor of Justice to supervise the administrative acts of the local governments? I'm not saying it has to be like this, but if we see that the supervision of the Ministry of Justice isn't enough, we'll get to the next stage.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U262	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U263	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, At the beginning of the presentation, you said that the supervision of the plans would probably go to the Ministry of Finance, at least for the time being. Do you think these new, hopeful municipalities will be able to deal with the plans themselves immediately if they are still elected in mid-October and the next year will have to start to deal with these things very quickly? What does it look like and how will the legal entity be resolved so that they are really competent and legally competent to resolve these issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U264	Yeah, we talked about this for a really long time. What do I say? At the moment, the absolute majority of the plans in today's county dimension have already received such pre-coordination from the county elders. Perhaps at the end of this year, there will be no flood in connection with planning. The plans have been confirmed. Plans are pretty long, I remember seven years in the case of county plans. In any case, the intermediate period is enough to really form strong self-government associations that can be trusted and given the task of regional planning where necessary. After all, all over Estonia, the situation is extremely uneven. We have a situation where one county is one municipality and where, say, the path is set down and very clearly planned, to detail how to work together in the future. And we have regions where self-government associations are expected to come, which are central to several counties and whose formation is a much longer process. Local government associations are coming somewhere, which are expected to be on top of several counties, somewhere the initial cooperation will be tested, even in the case of a joint public transport centre. I believe that this is a question of year-to-two, where it still becomes clear how strong these municipal organisations will come. Municipal organisations can then be given additional tasks in the future, and if it is found that regional planning should no longer be a national issue, but should be a self-governing issue, it will be.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U265	Krista Aru, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U266	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! County governments have played a very important role in the history of our statehood. And how precisely, clearly and unambiguously things have been negotiated, such as the handing over of the archives of the rural governments, the transformation of the symbolism at the disposal of the rural governments to the local governments, or I don't even know where? Have these questions been addressed at all? Has there been any mention of them in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U267	All this topic has been discussed and it is clear that the Ministry of Finance has also developed its own work plans on how to deal with symbolism and how to deal with archiving. I have repeatedly stated my point of view that it would have been the best administrative reform for me if the sign next to the country's government door had been replaced and the county government had become a rural municipality government. Then these things would have been a little easier. But it is clear that such a county identity must undoubtedly be built and maintained in the future. It is possible that, in the post-administrative reform phase, the identity of the county is geographically much more extensive, whether it is called a "band language area'. So, yes, I have great respect for the identity of the county, and I want it to be preserved and strengthened in the future in planning life.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U268	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! I will open negotiations where everyone will be able to speak. The Külliki Hatter is the first to use this opportunity. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U269	Yes, the time for rural governments is over, but in some ways this necessary step in itself will still come so unexpectedly. I would mark a few questions in terms of positive criticism. It is still unclear when the government coalition will come to the substantive question of administrative reform, which is the responsibility and issues of the state, which is the local government, the private sector and the business sector. At present, we share quite mechanically tasks from one authority to another, or change the structure, but there is very little change in substance. What we have noticed is that the changes have become more Tallinn-centred, i.e. more we see centralisation under the Ministry of Finance. After all, quite a number of amendments detest the necessity of the Minister of Public Administration in the Government Coalition. So far, it has been more of a portfolioless minister, not a permanent one. It has been known that he will remain in office until this moment, until the state reform has been carried out. However, whether we have reached a state reform at all today, that is another issue. The question of supervision. One of the great concerns and observations of the Free Party Group is, I apologise. just that the Ministry of Justice is not the institution that can carry out administrative supervision of local governments. During the Commission's debate, my colleague, Jüri Adams, gave a very simple example, in my opinion, of the individual who can carry out checks or supervision. This has been partly the subject of our amendment, so that this person can be the Chancellor of Justice. Under the law, the Chancellor of Justice has these powers and powers. He'd just get more jurisdiction. There is, of course, a question of staff and burden here, but it is certainly manageable. It is simply a matter of political will whether or not we want to exempt ministries from this continuous inclusion of supervisory tasks. We have, above all, been guided by the fact that ministries must be executive agencies and help in shaping Parliament's policies. Whether they have to carry out so much of their third tasks or activities is doubtful. Can I have more time just in case?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U270	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U271	The next issue, which was also marked by the Commission rapporteur, is the subject of planning. In this respect, it was positive that the planners' association sent a letter to the Commission to this effect, which also asked whether the county decisions had to be made at ministerial level, at the Ministry of Finance, or whether the role of the local government associations could be increased through the reform of the rural governments. Of course, here is the question of what role the local government associations take themselves, because they can be formed on a regional or regional basis. I think it's right that if we make changes, they could be longer-term. If we move the same tasks between different structural units every two or five years, it will cost us more. It would make sense to make changes with a longer view. Another very worrying point is that the term 'Minister responsible for the field' is introduced on the basis of both this Act and the law on the organisation of local government and the law on the amendment of other laws on the next item on the agenda. Why is it dangerous? After all, the government has said here that there will then be more flexibility in the coalition negotiations to change the names of ministers and their areas. But the consequence is that for the citizen, and I believe that also for the members of the Riigikogu itself, it becomes unclear who is ultimately responsible for one thing or another. I, too, have to admit, at times the question arose when three tasks are mentioned in the same law within three sections or sections, and there are not only one minister, but two ministers. This pursuit will become difficult for the citizen and the issue of accountability will be opaque. That is not a good attitude on our part. Secondly, if I am not mistaken, the Chancellor of Justice has also paid attention to this procedure, which is already opaque and rigid, will become even more opaque, because at one point you will no longer understand who, where and what. The consequence is that it will rather become more round and parliamentary supervision of the government, executive power will become even more marginal than it is now. As I mentioned, there are one third of the changes that certainly do not relate to the cessation of rural governments. However, we in the group found that it is not worthwhile for us to start drafting amendments on them one by one, but rather for our common interest to put an end to the activities of the rural governments. But to the Chairman of the Special Committee on State Reform, perhaps such an observation that perhaps the Special Committee could provide a guarantee here. I do hope that, from 1 November, the chairman of the committee will not move towards Brussels. Perhaps one of the outputs of the Special Committee's activities could be to analyse the results of the abolition of rural governments and draw conclusions from the reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U272	Thank you. There's no more words. I'm closing the negotiations. However, with little delay, a good colleague Jüri Adams responded. Please, the speaker's free!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U273	Thank you, Mr President. In a sense, it is sad, but it was predictable that we would not have the right debate on this issue in the second reading either. We cannot really discuss the drafts at first reading according to the current Rules of Procedure. At first reading we do not have the right to speak, now at second reading we could give speeches, but, in fact, a political decision has already been made that the law is essentially adopted today. After all, the content of the law no longer has any meaning at third reading. If any changes occur, they are spelling and other linguistic changes. I have complained about the shortcomings and vices of this draft on several occasions in this panel and I maintain that, together with the law on administrative reform, it is probably one of those drafts where future generations and next Riigikogu formations accuse us of being the rubber stamp of the Riigikogu. In this case, we have voluntarily put ourselves in this situation, and that is sad. I would like to make one question more precise, although not much can be said about this time. This is the same question of supervision that Küllik's Hatter mentioned in his speech. I recently had the opportunity to ask our current Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, why these matters of supervision are in Estonian law so and not otherwise, whether there have been any errors here. Reinsalu replied briefly, and I think very accurately, that if there are errors in the law, these errors have been made in the law for a long time. It is true that supervision has been defined in many different ways. This question came to the Riigikogu then I can't say the exact year when the law on law enforcement was being dealt with. We started with the fact that Estonia had only the supervision of rural governments. At present, there are a wide range of supervisions known about Estonian law, some of which have been given a separate name and others have not been given a name. There has been a special mention of official supervision, which was not previously in the law, perhaps because it was such an elementary and self-evident thing that it was not considered necessary to issue it directly. We have also started to call supervision all the activities that are carried out in ministries in the leadership of their professions. The Ministry of Education controls and supervises the work of all municipal educational institutions. Start calling it supervision. Well, that's quite an idea. It used to be just a day-to-day job, now it's called surveillance. We have one type of supervision officially defined as administrative supervision. Administrative supervision is defined as the work carried out by a higher-ranking public authority in relation to a subordinate public authority. This is again one of the kind of mentoring and checking work that does not need the supervision name. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U274	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U275	There is no clear common denominator for these matters why they should all be called monitoring. Why can they not be mentioned at all or called otherwise? In any case, it is true that if the law currently being discussed is asked what will happen to the supervision that the rural elders now have over the municipalities, then it will be lost. It is lost in the sense that it is assumed that one part will go under as if it were the ministers of the sector. But, hey, this isn't surveillance! This is part of the day-to-day work of the ministries, it was before and will continue to be. And what's supposed to go under the Justice Department with this bill, basically, could have found other places. For example, a separate post could be created, for example, within the jurisdiction of the Chancellor of Justice, as we have proposed. The question is that supervision is needed and cannot be the routine work of ministerial officials. Any monitoring shall begin with the decision to initiate the monitoring procedure at all. As a general rule, these are borderline cases and require a "considered' decision. A deliberate decision cannot be made by ministerial subordinate officials; it must be the one and only top official who makes such a decision. And in this case, it's not. Let's see how it goes in the future. I repeat what I have said before: far more important than the supervision of municipal legislation or of individual acts is whether a citizen who does not like something because he thinks it is wrong or, on the contrary, he thinks that the right thing is not done, has an addressee to whom he should turn to such concerns, and where, if the suspicion or observation is confirmed, some kind of act follows. All these things are dissolved in the design now proposed. The internship will show you what happens next. On the experience of my legislative work, I would say this: if one thing is called different names in different fields, it is not a great accident yet, but if different things are called the same name as'supervision', then there is an evil flock.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U276	Thank you. There's no more calls. We are going to examine the amendments. 15 amendments to the draft have been tabled. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the position of the commission is disregarded. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U277	Thank you, Mr President. We are asking for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U278	Let us move to the preparation of the vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the first amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. Nine members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 42 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U279	Thank you, Mr President. I also ask for the vote on this proposal, which leads to supervision by the Chancellor of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U280	Let us move to the preparation of the vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 13 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and 49 against. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U281	Thank you, Mr President. The Free Party Group is asking for this proposal to be voted on and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U282	Let us move to the preparation of the vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote Amendment 8, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 46 against, one member of the Riigikogu abstained. Amendment 8 was not supported. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U283	Thank you, Mr President. I ask that we vote and support this amendment, which will allow regional plans to be dealt with by local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U284	We will soon be voting on this amendment. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 9, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, please take a stand and vote. 19 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 45 against and no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 10 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U285	Thank you, Mr President. As there will always be more votes, I also ask for this proposal to be voted and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U286	We shall proceed to the preparation of the vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the 10th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 19 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 48 against, one member of the Riigikogu abstained. Amendment 10 was not supported. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U287	Thank you. Please vote and support.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U288	Let us move to the preparation of the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 11, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 17 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 49 against and no abstentions. Amendment 11 was not supported. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U289	Thank you, Mr President. The Free Party Group also asks for the 12th amendment to be voted and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U290	Let us move to the preparation of the vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote Amendment 12 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 49 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 12 was not supported. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. Amendment 14 has also been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The 15th and the last amendment to this draft have also been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account of this. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 432. Second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U291	Today's 13th item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act and other laws relating to the implementation of administrative reform initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Helmut Hallemaa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to speak as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U292	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, These two drafts are interrelated and are two sides of one thing. The question here was whether we have reached something with administrative reform and state reform. I'm sure we are, and actually, we're moving on from day to day. While the administrative-territorial reform under the Administrative Reform Act, i.e. a change of borders, is now on the table to put an end to the activities of rural governments. The draft 433 concerns the division of tasks which, after the closure of the rural governments, will either be transferred to the municipalities or will remain shared by the municipalities. The draft was initiated by the government. 17 April 2008 and it passed the first reading in this hall on 10 May. The time for the amendments was 24 May and the second reading was held in the Commission on 30 May (this is reflected in Protocol 118). A total of 18 amendments were tabled to the draft, three proposals were led by 12 members of the Riigikogu, Kalle Laanet, and the Estonian Free Party Group submitted one proposal, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs presented 14 proposals based on proposals and analysis by the Ministry of Finance. The first four proposals were disregarded by the Commission and 14 of the Commission's own proposals were taken into account. Nine members of the Commission were present at the Commission's hearing on 30 May. Jaak Madison was replaced by Henn Põlluaas and Peeter Ernitsa was replaced by Erki Savisaar from the side. As the subject is voluminous and concerns both the relevant cooperation organisations and several ministries, Merje Muiso, Legal Adviser to the Regional Development Department of the Ministry of Finance, Olivia Talle, Head of the Department for the Financial Management of Local Authorities of the same Ministry, and Adviser to the Planning Department of the same Ministry, had been invited. Ain Tatter, Head of Road and Rail Department, and Hindrek Allvee, Head of Transport and Traffic Department, were present from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Estonian Association of Municipalities was represented by financial advisor Märt Moll and legal adviser Tiina Onegate and advisor Anne Läns. In addition, a number of organisations had put forward their proposals, which were also considered more in-depth by the Commission and responded to by the officials of the respective ministries. The proposals were submitted by the Tartu City Government, the Pärnumaa Association of Municipalities, representatives of small islands, the Estonian Cities Association and the Estonian Association of Municipalities. I am trying not to read each line of the minutes, but to take stock of the debate on the proposals made by the various organisations and of what has been taken into account and which has not been taken into account, and then to pass on the debate on the most important amendments. Olivia Taltu replied to four questions from the Municipalities Association, which provided some substantive answers to the questions. The first question concerned the planning of the development of the region and the related task. The Estonian Association of Municipalities was concerned about whether all the money that rural governments have for planning development at the county level would be passed on to local government organisations or to the authorised organisations of local governments. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that all the resources currently available in this area would be transferred to a joint municipal organisation which the municipalities themselves would appoint. The second question concerned the development of the business environment. In the first reading version of the draft law, it was clearly formulated as a task for municipalities, but it has now been withdrawn. We learned from the reply of the Ministry of Finance that this withdrawal was proposed by the Minister of Finance on the coordination round. The reason was that such a task could not be so directly assigned to the municipalities, it would be decided together with solving the issue of the revenue base. It was also a question of joint agencies and joint agencies. The Association of Municipalities was concerned that it would become complex. Here was the justification for this.. and it also makes sense that there is, in fact, one option for municipalities that has so far been lacking. It is an opportunity to set up joint agencies and joint agencies managed by joint agencies as joint organisations of local authorities. Municipalities will be able to agree with each other on common functions and this will not reduce the role of local governments. When we also addressed this issue in the Committee on State Reform, I had the feeling that within the local government associations themselves, from top management to simple specialists, there are also quite different opinions on the role that local government associations should play. When the heads of the local governments were in the State Reform Commission, both of them believed that the issue of granting the status of a public organisation to the local governments had been discussed and not supported. In fact, the practice still shows how one county or another develops. Or if they want to make one municipal union over several counties, this is now coming up under the new law. One of the themes that has been dealt with well in the enquiries in this Chamber is the right of self-determination of settlement units, especially villages, and the movement of villages. According to the second-reading text, this area becomes more liberal, because if it was up to the council to decide on these issues first, or, let's say, by qualified majority, then in the future, it can be done by simple majority in accordance with the law and this will make things easier to solve. I myself asked the Commission whether this was the solution. Olivia Taltud replied that a working group met at the Ministry of Finance to discuss this matter, both local government associations and the Kodukand movement were represented. It was jointly agreed that this matter would still remain a matter for the municipalities, because there are actually money issues behind it when some settlement units move from one municipality to another. The last question by EMOL concerned the organisation of public transport from 1 January 2018. The municipality association was concerned about how municipalities would join the county transport centres, whether it was always voluntary. In fact, it is a matter of organising the public service, the public transport of the county, and the municipality decides how it is more appropriate for it to join. One question echoed the thought, and I asked myself that if, now, because of life itself, the law has transformed the county transport centre into a regional transport centre, would it not move the direction that transport centres will be reduced if desired? In fact, there is still a chance to form transport centres from the county. A number of regions have been welcomed here, where the establishment of cross-county public transport centres is already being discussed. The main reason for the discussion was the transfer and organisation of the development of the county. According to the draft law, development is to be transferred on the basis of the decisions of the local government councils and in such a way that at least two thirds of the municipalities and two thirds of the population of the region must be covered in the local government association or other joint organisation, and the municipality of the county centre must also be represented in the joint organisation which organises the development activities. In the draft submitted to the Commission, there was still a provision that, if not all municipalities joined, the transfer would be completed by the Minister of Finance. As a result of the debate, it was removed from the law, because it really has nothing to do but confirm this. In the current draft option, if these conditions are met, the development of the region will be transferred to the joint organisation selected in the county. These organisations may be different, these tasks may actually be carried out by joint agencies set up by the municipalities themselves, if this is considered necessary in some counties. Tiina One-gate, Legal Adviser to the Association of Municipalities, raised the question that the law does not have a clearly fixed time when the development function has to be transferred, when the councils have to take a decision. In the course of the Commission's work, we decided that this should be done by 1 February 2018 at the latest. When I meet the municipal associations, I have also heard the question of whether it could start earlier. In fact, when the bill becomes a law, it is the legal rule that will arise and today's municipalities will be able to make the relevant decisions. These decisions in the merging and merging municipalities will be transferred to the new municipalities and, if necessary, the new municipalities will be able to make new decisions. Why is it good that the deadline was postponed to February 1, 2018? If this function is to be continued in the county development centres, which are predominantly foundations, it cannot be done until 1 January next year, when within the new limits municipalities will become legal entities because the founder's obligations cannot be transferred. Merje Muiso, of the Planning Department of the Ministry of Finance, commented on the proposal of the Tartu City Government, according to which the general plans already in force could be implemented in new, merging municipalities without the right of appeal from the residents. The Ministry of Finance's official said, and in fact the Commission also agreed, that it was not possible or reasonable to take away from them the right of the people of the new municipalities to challenge one or another. He praised the general plan of Tartu, which is really good and will be completed by autumn. But the municipalities and their people who join Tartu have still given their opinions and assessments of the overall plan of the second municipality. In the new circumstances, it is a single municipality and the right to challenge a general plan or parts thereof should not be taken away from people. The representatives of Kihnu, Ruhnu and Vormsi Island suggested that similar rights for the formation of local governments, such as those of the county authorities, could be granted to small islands. In this debate, both Olivia Taltud and Sulev Liivik commented that associations of local governments, which are independent legal entities within the county, especially now in the context of the new law, will have quite large legal opportunities, which are also covered by resources. Small islands which do not have the status or legal status of an administrative unit cannot be granted such rights. When discussing the question, everyone had this sense of mind, as a member of the Commission, Mr Kalle Laane raised this issue, so that the procedure for the Small Islands Act could be quicker and could then solve the small islands issue by giving them greater opportunities. Ain Tatter from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications commented on the proposal of the Pärnumaa Municipalities Association. The content of the proposal is that municipalities and associations of municipalities can participate in the planning of renovation of local roads, especially in the allocation of resources. It is currently carried out on the basis of a road maintenance plan approved by the Government of the Republic and within the limits of the resources allocated to the Road Administration. Ain Tatter informed us that, within the framework of the transport development plan, the Road Administration will be accompanied by a working group that will analyse the principles of road ownership and road maintenance management and will also consider ways to change them. One possible scenario envisages the creation in the future of a fund for the repair and renovation of roads and for the organisation of road maintenance where these works would not be so narrowly limited to a road maintenance plan, but would also allow local needs to be taken into account. The first amendment tabled by 12 members of the Riigikogu created the biggest discussion during the discussion of the amendments. Its content is that § 1 of the Local Government Organisation Act, which lists the core functions of the municipality, adds to the task of long-distance services, ferry traffic and air traffic management based on a survey of residents' mobility needs. We stated in the committee that the question raised by Mr Laane, together with the other 11 members of the Riigikogu, is basically important. The aim is undoubtedly that the issue must be discussed and that these essential services must be guaranteed for the inhabitants of the smaller islands and also for the inhabitants of the larger islands. But I myself think, and the other members of the Commission also mentioned, that this is not a matter of this local government organisation law, but should be resolved in the Public Transport Act, if such a need exists. Actually, it's more complicated. If, as a core task, we foresee to all municipalities, also Kihnu and Ruhnu, the organisation of air traffic, ferry traffic and long-distance routes, this is obviously beyond the control of the authorities. This probably was not the point of the proposers, but, according to the wording of the proposal, this is what will happen in the context of this law. Another proposal put forward by the same group of MPs concerned the right to amend the statutes, rights and names of the local government unit's government, manager, etc. The law currently includes the functions of the municipality and the city administration, the mayor and the mayor of the municipality, and the procedure for their appointment, but the plan is to grant this right to the municipalities themselves. In particular, we were talking about the manager or manager of the Saaremaa municipality, where one of the options was to name the manager of the municipality as the city's elder. The Commission did not support this proposal. Among the major proposals made by the Commission on the basis of the proposals made by the Ministry of Finance, the planning of long-term public health development can be mentioned as one of the central tasks of the municipalities. It comes from the Public Health Act. The proposal to rename the county transport centre as a regional transport centre is a result of life itself. There was another proposal from the Free Party Group, which is actually important in substance, but we found in the Commission that it does not fall under the regulation of this law. The proposal concerns the resolution of issues in a crisis or martial law situation and the establishment of evacuation sites. This issue should be resolved within the framework of the Emergency Act. The remaining questions were less detailed and some were technical in nature. All the suggestions have been distributed to you. Finally, procedural decisions were taken: to put the draft on the agenda of today's meeting on 7 June, to propose that the second reading of the draft be stopped (consensus decision) and, if the second reading is closed, to send the draft to the third reading. At the time of the vote, Ken-Marti Vaher, Mart Nutt, Anneli Ott, Ivari Padar, Erki Savisaar and Helmut Hallemaa were present.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U293	Now it's time for questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U294	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The Free Party's proposal is based on the conviction that population protection issues should be directly part of the municipal reform, all the more so as the concept of population protection must be completed by November. Have you understood in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs how administrative reformers make population protection work at community and self-governing levels? To be honest, when the outgoing minister answered the same question on Monday, we did not really understand it. It is very easy to say here that we are putting this question into another law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U295	Thank you. Yeah, of course, it's easy to say that we're putting COKS in that law. However, as I said at the outset, the idea of the draft law 433 is primarily to transfer the functions of the rural governments to the municipalities and their joint organisations in order to carry out the tasks together. The scope of this law is summarised in four parts: sports and youth work remains the responsibility of the municipalities; municipalities have the right to set up joint agencies and joint institutions; the issues of public transport on the county routes are resolved; this is the responsibility of the Public Road Administration, but is the responsibility of the regional public transport centres; the development of the county is to be carried out jointly in the future. Defence and defence of the population, security at all, are undoubtedly extremely important issues and they have been dealt with in the framework of the Emergency Act in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Here too, the local government associations play a very important role. But it is a national task, it cannot be fulfilled by one or another municipality. I think that putting this at the heart of the municipality is too little, given the importance of the matter. All the more so since this is a public task, public funding must also be involved in putting this responsibility on local authorities. One more thing I didn't mention in the report. The Commission also raised the issue of substantive administrative reform and its financing. This was raised by the Legal Advisor of the Estonian Union of Cities. Mr. Liivik and Mr. Olivia Talle, as representatives of the Ministry of Finance, brought us this knowledge, after all, on the side of the coalition, that the Ministry of Finance has submitted a memorandum to the government which sets out both the movement of tasks and the possibilities of financing the revenue base. It has already been on the table in the government office once, the debate is continuing, and it will certainly get here quickly. Of course, I'd like it to get here even faster. But it will be resolved, the country's budgetary strategy already has the means to do so. Next year, the revenue base will increase with the Equalisation Fund by 30 million, the next year by 45 million and the next year by 55 million. This distribution is not an easy issue, but it will certainly be resolved. So the issue of human safety will not go unnoticed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U296	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U297	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I will persist in the footsteps of my colleague Andres Herkel. You yourself mentioned on several occasions that this bill talks about the core tasks of local government. Excuse me, but isn't the protection of the local population one of the core tasks of the local government? Who knows their area, their people, their opportunities best? Why are you putting it on the country in an indefinite way again?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U298	Thank you. I think I have already answered and then I will say again that this is an important task for local governments, but it is also an important task for the state. I have always stressed everywhere that we have important cooperation with external partners to ensure security, but just as important, good Krista Aru, is internal security. I think this is a very important national issue. When we addressed this on several occasions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the context of the Emergency Act, the issue of inter county cooperation also arose. We will take Viljandi, where we will probably have to go two ways, towards Pärnu and Tartu by working together in the field of security. There are many other areas like this. It's a county level now. Obviously, it is not possible to solve these issues within only one municipality. This is still a much wider issue, which also necessarily requires public resources. So together, we will be good at making sure that it is formulated in the following laws. This law, which is on the table here today, concerns, in particular, the division of tasks that are transferred from rural governments, and it is not the final division of functions. As stated in the Memorandum of the Ministry of Finance and together with the local government associations, there are different options for both division of tasks and allocation of financial resources, i.e. to restore the revenue base and increase the compensation fund in practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U299	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U300	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Commission waitress! I will continue on the subject of my colleagues. The concern is that the protection of the population, including the model of crisis situations, has not been updated in Estonia. The very clear observation of the population protection task force is that local authorities are already obliged by their nature to provide primary services relating to accommodation, catering, water supply, etc. Now it is a question of who guarantees these resources? Where do these instruments come from? As long as we postpone this topic, I understand that it has been tried here to discuss it, we will not get anywhere. You mentioned that you represent the coalition's positions. Please introduce what is the coalition's vision of the concept of population protection?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U301	Thank you. No, here I am still clearly representing the views of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I bring to you the debate that took place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I certainly didn't say I represented the coalition's views. I said, as information, that this coalition had a coalition agreement to restore the local governments' revenue base. It has now reached the country's budgetary strategy in 2018 to 2021 and has been regularised as a national document. We had a discussion on 30 May, and by that time the document on the basis of the income base of local governments, which had been prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and local government organisations, had moved to the government. At the level of the government office, this has been addressed and is being discussed, and it certainly has to get here as a matter of urgency. Let's wait! I'm looking forward to it myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U302	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U303	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Secondly, I would raise the issue of the self-governing status of villages, which you mentioned. I admit that we could also have retabled this subject in the form of an amendment to the draft under discussion. How do you predict when these villages, where the vast majority really want to move from one municipality to another, will be able to realise that desire? When will the councils agree to this? At present, however, this situation still seems completely hopeless, because everyone is holding on to as many people as possible, for the sake of this stupid 5000 population criterion. When will these opportunities open up?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U304	Thank you for your question. That's a great question! You say the local authorities are holding the villages. In fact, of course, they're not just holding the villages. Everyone is being held, and we all know how people have been invited to remain in one municipality or another in the course of the administrative-territorial reform. People are, of course, important in many ways, both in terms of working hands, in terms of the number of inhabitants, but certainly also in terms of the local government's income base. It's natural. As I said, and that is what I really asked myself in the Commission, there has been a significant delay in the second reading version of the draft text. Until now, a two-thirds qualified majority was necessary to change the administrative-territorial organisation of councils. According to the new version, if we adopt it before Midsummer, now the Commission has planned that the third reading will be on 14 June, when we finish the second reading today, there will be an opportunity to do this more easily. Yes, such questions are and are viewed differently. In fact, this was also a proposal by the local governments themselves, because in the debate of the Commission, Märt Moll, the financial advisor of the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, spoke about why this procedure has been made easier and why such a shift has taken place. Well, you have to choose the optimal midway here. On the other hand, the European Charter for Local Government stipulates that the important issues of local governments cannot be decided by anyone else, and the number of people living in one local government where they are located is a crucial question of the organisation and existence of the local government. So this right of local authorities must be respected, preserved and protected. I have also said here that the Ministry of Finance was tasked with making this easier, and now it is settled so that the majority requirement falls from two thirds to 51%. After all, this is a great simplification at municipal level. The people who have expressed this wish before the administrative reform must now begin to do so. There was a time, and it wasn't a long time ago, in 2005, when Türi was made, there was no chance. The southern end of Türi rural municipality might have been interested in joining Võhma at the time, but at the time there was no such opportunity at all. Now this possibility exists, and this possibility extends even more when this bill becomes a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U305	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U306	Thank you, good vice chairman. Helmut, I congratulate you on the fact that you are from the very remote area where you are standing now, repeatedly and repeatedly saying that the concept of administrative reform is not quite right to be used in law, because it is an administrative-territorial reform. Has the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed when an administrative reform will be undertaken, which really concerns what I said in my speech on the previous item, i.e. that the tasks and responsibilities of the state, local government, the private sector, the local community should be reviewed in substance? It is likely that the Special Committee on State Reform does not have the right to a legislative initiative; it is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. What role has the Committee on Constitutional Affairs played? It has been said about the government of the Minister for Public Administration that since they have so much to do with administrative-territorial issues until 17 June, they will not be able to deal with substantive issues. Will and when the Riigikogu go to help the Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U307	Thank you. The Riigikogu can always help, and I think that in one way, another way or third, we have done so. After all, in committee discussions, we certainly give good and best input and we ourselves receive input. I don't think you're pretty accurate about one thing. I'd even say more. In fact, these are the two drafts that are on this table, after all, very substantive things. The fact that county governments are shutting down as a public administration is a big matter of substance. When a good colleague, Jüri Adams, spoke, I would also have liked to comment that the rural governments, in fact the same movement, were established as early as 1993 when the rural governments became state. After all, they are currently largely a unit under the administration of the Ministry of Finance, in many respects already in the status of the department. And the fact that the Ministry of Finance is so big is actually a matter of agreement with the local governments. The topic of municipalities, regional policy, and also planning plans, all of them were in the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. There was a bilateral agreement that they would be transferred to the Ministry of Finance. In fact, Finland was an example. The main question for local governments was the question of resources, and the main annual discussion of the cooperation body of local governments with the state went to the revenue base, to the money. So I think that these are very substantive things, and as I said, maybe it really has sounded too little here. But you can't really cuckoo until you've laid eggs. In fact, we have to do this quickly. After all, the same local government revenue base, which is extremely important, has been severely and unfairly cut since 2009. The sixth largest city and seventh municipality of Estonia Viljandi have lost nearly 50 million, fortunately the kroon. It is a very large resource that is missing, we have not been able to do very many things, one, the other and the third. I think it's been like this in every municipality. This issue will be resolved, it will be on the table in different variants, and these options will be discussed. I think this is a crucial matter of substance. It is certainly important to mention the meaning of jobs here too. We are losing nearly 900 jobs with these two major reforms, administrative-territorial and administrative reforms and the restructuring of rural governments. For this reason, I think that it is also very important for public authorities to move to county centres in order to maintain high-wage and qualified jobs regionally. These are important things, but we definitely have to move on from there. I dare say to Jüri Adams that even now, rural governments do not do much of this task of administrative supervision of local governments. They have exactly the same or, I think, maybe even a smaller role than the Justice Department units will have in the future. The Minister of Justice has stressed in both the National Reform Commission and other committees that the Ministry of Justice still retains the legal supervision of administrative acts as regards the content. Whether something is in conflict with the Constitution or not, the Chancellor of Justice is currently looking at it, and that is what the Chancellor of Justice and his office will do in the future. I have been at two meetings where a representative of the office of the Chancellor of Justice has said that they do not have the capacity and perhaps the great will to take on the day-to-day legal supervision of administrative acts. These issues of constitutional institutions are certainly on the table and are on the table up to the President's institution, but they come to the next stage of decision-making. At the moment, it is very important that the things that have been initiated, the reorganisation of the rural governments and the assignment of the tasks arising from them, the increase of the revenue base, be resolved quickly before the new municipalities become operational.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U308	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur from the Commission. Once again, from the protection of the population. We have a population protection task force that must reach the result or the initial output by the end of this year. Public protection issues have not been addressed in the course of the administrative-territorial reform. This requires cooperation between different ministries, it needs to be coordinated at government level. How has this issue been addressed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in connection with the reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U309	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U310	It has been dealt with in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs within the framework of the Emergency Act and, in fact, the Minister of the Interior has personally visited us to talk about it. The Minister of Justice has also spoken on this issue in several committees. The subject is important, but as the task force is still working, nothing can be put into law until the task force has brought the results of its work to the table. I still think that this is a broader issue and must be resolved across the country on the basis of one set of rules. It's a national mission. If this task goes to one municipality or another, or to carry it out together, it must be accompanied by resources, financial resources. It's as simple as that. Of course, this is a very important matter, and so far it has been dealt with by security councils at county and regional level as well. What about them? They go partly within the jurisdiction of the local governments' joint organisations, associations' associations, and partly within the administration of ministries. But the self-government associations need to get stronger, and I think it's going to be. There was also a time when it was seen that they were taking over the status of a rural elder and a rural elder. It will take some time, but the question is topical and important.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U311	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U312	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm looking at page five with § 543 'Social Guarantees for Officials and Workers'. It states that the council can pay up to a maximum of six months' salary to a person who has worked for two to eight years and to an employed person for more than eight years. What do you mean, it's okay? Can anyone prohibit the council or tell us what kind of money he's paying someone? Don't you pay any more, and what happens if someone's worked for less than two years? Accession processes were not agreed until less than a year ago. Will some employees then receive one month's compensation or what is the solution? Is this only a council decision, and the council can only grant compensation within the limits that the law states?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U313	Thank you, good question! Clearly, social guarantees are important. I owe you an answer, I guess we'll have to look for it together. There was one thing not mentioned here that has actually come up with the draft second reading. This is that the reduction in the income base for forced-joined municipalities will also be compensated for. This draft was not included in the previous options. But this social guarantee thing is definitely the only one that can make these decisions here. I owe you an answer, I'm not gonna invent it here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U314	Aivar Chef, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U315	Thank you. This is a very important issue, and you opened up this issue even more in the case of coercion. What does this mean that, when forced to join, does the mayor and the chairman of the council receive compensation for 12 months and the employees receive the same bill, or how is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U316	I was actually thinking about local governments here, not guarantees for local government employees. This was not foreseen by the earlier draft options for forced merger. In the second-reading bill, these things have been introduced. As far as officials are concerned, I will remember the question, and I am sure you will get an answer. This issue did not arise in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U317	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Kalle Laane! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U318	Ladies and gentlemen, Good manager! Of course, we are moving in the right direction with these two drafts. It has been said for a long time that administrative reform is needed, years and years, and now we are on this path. But we all remember that one of the aims of the administrative reform is that there should be stronger municipalities, who can be granted more rights and who are more able to organise people's lives in a particular territory. As usual, decisions need to be made in the process of change. It is therefore clear why I argued with regard to the previous draft that some things have not been resolved. It is clear that the places in Estonia are different, and there is also a difference in how some sort of life-management issues should be resolved somewhere. Consequently, 12 members of the Riigikogu submitted basically three amendments aimed primarily at adding flexibility to the Local Government Organisation Act. I must correct the previous waitress that it was not about Saaremaa or the city elder of Saaremaa. This was just an example of how to make things more flexible in law, because the current constitution says we have cities and municipalities, and the Local Government Organisation Act says that we have parish elders and mayors. These names are not included in the Constitution, and since in future all administrative units will be of different sizes, it was our proposal that the decision on the driver's name should be more flexible. It was, I would say, a more cosmetic amendment. The second, much more important, proposal was to give the municipality the opportunity to organise public transport, which would include, in particular, ferry traffic between the major islands and also between the smaller islands and air traffic between these islands. The content of this proposal is that at the beginning of each financial year the state will be negotiated, whether with the Public Road Administration, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications or with someone else, the volume of the contract or the volume of the trips. Everything else on charts, ordering additional tours and being a contracting partner at present is TS Ships, would be the property of the local government itself. Who, then, knows even better what time a ferry should leave Heltermaa or Virtsu, if not local people through their local authorities? The answers given to us by the officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were, in my opinion, absolutely frightening in that sense that the officials would then decide how things are going. No, it is the grand hall of the Riigikogu who decides how things are organised. If we take the European Charter for Local Government on the table, this is one of the most fundamental principles of subsidiarity. The Centre Party has spoken with a loud voice about this subsidiarity principle, both in opposition and in the coalition. Those amendments that were initiated by 12 members of the Riigikogu were not the only ones signed in support of this group, from all others. For me, it's totally funny, it's kind of a lesson of truth, whether you go by words or by actions. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, too, it was asked very clearly that, listen, if these amendments are found not to be suitable, perhaps in the technical sense, when the MKM or the coalition as a whole will be able to come up with amendments that are technically correct and fit to solve this problem. Where you said the answer was, "Hey, you're kidding me," it just doesn't fit. I must admit that, having been a member of the Riigikogu for ten years, such duplicity makes me feel extremely sad in person. I am not going to name those people here, members of the Riigikogu who have spoken in the media about how the issue of granting rights to local governments should be resolved in the course of the administrative reform. Just yesterday, the future Minister of State Administration spoke about how we will give local governments more rights and financial resources so that the local government can better organise the lives of its people. Those are words. In a little while, we can go to what we do, see what they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U319	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U320	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In my speech, I would like to address the issue of manufacturing and processing cluster billing in a more general way. Both the previous draft 432 and the current 433 are, by their very nature, cluster drafts. And if 432 was the case that there were 59 sections in it, each of which dealt with the amendment of one existing law, then there are 12 sections in it, each of which deals with the amendment of one law, and at least four laws are those which are amended in both laws currently under discussion. About a dozen days ago, a completely surprising thing happened to me. Namely, the Riigikogu's board had discussed this issue among themselves and sent it to the political groups or to the committees only, I do not have the texts in hand at the moment. The content of the letter was that if the Commission were to find itself in such a situation in the context of the draft procedure that the draft amends laws which are not in the area covered by this Commission, it should be requested that the relevant section be examined by the committee which has the competence or area of work. It was surprising to me, because just one day before that, at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I had made a similar proposal that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs send those parts of the draft which are not within its competence to give and evaluate opinions to the respective committees. I asked the chairman of the committee to put this rather unusual proposal to the vote. What do you think the result was? Do you think the Commission approved my point? If you think so, you are, of course, mistaken by the votes of the government coalition, such an unusual idea was voted down. I do not think that such an idea had been heard here in the Riigikogu for many years. When the next day the board came up with exactly the same advice, it struck me as a surprise, because I had not yet suspected that the board could have such innovative or, on the contrary, old-fashioned methods of handling cluster drafts. I very much hope that this opinion, which has been published by the Bureau, will spread more widely among the members of the Riigikogu and maybe one day become a standard of work. With regard to the draft currently under discussion, the first seven paragraphs amending the law are clearly the traditional area of work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Paragraph 8, which deals with the amendment of the Land Tax Act, is completely foreign to us. This is probably part of the subject area of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U321	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U322	Article 9 is a planning law that falls within the remit of the Committee on Economic Affairs, and of which, I also think, neither officials nor members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs know much about. § 10 is an amendment to the Pharmaceutical Act and § 11 is an amendment to the Pharmaceutical Act and to the Health Services Organisation Act. Both should be social issues. Article 12 is the amendment of the Public Transport Act , I think it is the subject matter of the Economic Commission. So, power, esteemed government coalition! Life, of course, settles everything, and if some things have gone too wrong, the people will express their opinion either with political movements or with election results, but unfortunately, we are left with the shame of embedding rubber on such cluster medicines. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U323	As chairman of the sitting, I will give a brief explanation to my colleague, Jüri Adams, and to the statement that the Board of the Riigikogu sent a letter to the political groups to that effect. Its content was the result of the negotiations of the Riigikogu's management board in the Council of Elders, where the main issue was the issue of cluster billing. There we also drew conclusions. Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U324	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, It is really right that I have spoken here for a long time, but I would like to emphasise three more things separately. We have now become the new word 'cobar' and 'cobar bill'. In this case, I don't see much of a bunch here. If you literally take a section by section, ladies and gentlemen of the Free Party tried to add one more cluster to this group, this cluster concerned national defence and the protection of residents. In fact, only four major matters that this law affects as a result of the transfer of functions of rural governments will be settled. These are: 1) sports and youth work; 2) the possibility of setting up joint agencies and joint institutions, which have long been awaited and used by municipalities in all kinds of complex ways so far, and which makes it considerably easier in the areas of administration and joint activities; 3) development, which is in many ways still being carried out in conjunction with local governments; 4) public transport on county lines, which is important for municipalities and important for people to move on the ground. The last thing I don't agree with is Kalle Laanet. In addition to 21 million subsidy resources, the current coalition, in which we are also parties, has found 21 million more in this area, with which it is possible to develop the network of routes as well as to organise intra-regional bus traffic on the ground. As far as ferry traffic and air traffic are concerned, this was also the most serious issue in the Commission when discussing the proposal. I'm not going to appreciate the answers of the people in the ministry, because I really didn't follow it as closely as Kalle Laane probably did. But I also asked if it was meant that this issue could be resolved through another form, because it is not so straightforward and simple. For example, the same municipality of Saaremaa still has Muhu rural municipality, whether large or small. In fact, ferry traffic is not directly organised by the municipality of Saaremaa. Yeah, there must have been a different merger. Was it good or bad to make a municipality on a county level? I do not think this is the best option, at least within the current tasks. If new, better and bigger challenges develop, there will be a greater resource, then perhaps there will be a move towards them. But when we talk about identity, it's not that if we take the municipality to the county level, it's not the best option for people about identity. However, people have seen the municipality as their closest unit, and the county is such a cooperative unit. Yeah, in Saaremaa, they almost overlap. However, at least the Members of the Commission did not have such an opinion that this question was wrongly put. It was just my opinion, as well as the opinion of the other members of the Commission, that this issue had to be resolved within the framework of the Public Transport Act. And whether they communicate well or not, everyone can appreciate it. So these are important things. With regard to this proposal, which Mr Adams pointed out here, that is to say, the sending of things to several Commissions, there is no prohibition on doing so at this point either. But we have dealt with this draft so much, the representatives of all the political groups have also been in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, so it has actually been on the table for all of us. That was the law before the bill came to our tables. Yes, it will be possible to follow this proposal in the future. But right now, we'd just create one more relatively empty circle. Whoever has wanted to take the floor has been able to take the floor, and I'm sure he can do it again. Life doesn't end by adopting this law. Life shows how local governments are going to work, especially cooperation, organizing organisations at county level. It's been pretty serious before, in the meantime, he just kind of died in the shadows. But I think they're gonna find it again, and it's gonna work out again if life forces itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U325	Mr Herkel, is it a procedural question or a line on the position of the previous speech?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U326	Thank you, Mr President. This is a speech from a point of view. I want to reject Mr Hallemaa's case that the amendment tabled by the Free Party Group would, as if, bring here another cluster. That is certainly not the case. This draft is an amendment to the Local Government Organisation Act and other laws. This amendment, which we made with regard to population protection, has been made on the law on the organisation of local government. There's no way of introducing a law that doesn't make any sense. It is simply a question of what we see as the core task of the municipality, and we see that population protection must also be regulated at local government level. So this argument was completely inaccurate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U327	On the basis of § 70 of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the reply that just sounded was quite appropriate; it was right to do so. Kalle Laane, please! Your name was actually mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U328	Thank you, President-in-Office. I want to emphasise one thing. We have two of the most important laws on the table today, one is the law on the abolition of rural governments, and the other is the law on the organisation of local governments, and we are talking about the organisation of local life in the course of the administrative reform. And then when we say that certain questions aren't important at all, that we don't even take them on the table to look at them, we'll never discuss them in the future, it's not very funny anymore. This is not a serious state-manly attitude. The second thing I want to mark is that we had three amendments. We voted on them as best we could in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where all the amendments received a number of votes. After it became clear that after a certain number of members of the Riigikogu had left the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, our third amendment was put to the vote, which naturally did not receive two votes in favour because not all members were present. This procedural approach is particularly funny throughout this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U329	18 amendments have been tabled to draft 433; we will examine them together. The first amendment was tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Kalle Laanet, Urve Tiidus, Hannes Hanso, Raivo Aeg, Andres Metsoja, Maire Aunaste, Einar Vallbaum, Lauri Luik, Artur Talvik, Jaak Madison, Laine Randjärv and Arto Aas. The decision of the Governing Commission is not to be taken into account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U330	Thank you. I would like to ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U331	On the proposal of the Riigikogu, the Estonian Reform Party, I put to the vote the first amendment to draft 433 tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Kalle Laanet, Urve Tiidus, Hannes Hanso, Raivo Aeg, Andres Metsoja, Maire Aunaste, Einar Vallbaum, Lauri Luik, Artur Talvik, Jaak Madison, Laine Randjärv and Arto Aas. The decision of the Governing Commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 23 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 46 against. The proposal was not supported. A second amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the decision of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U332	Thank you, Mr President. We are asking for it to be voted and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U333	Are we ready to vote? I shall put to the vote the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The decision of the Governing Commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was supported by 16 MPs, 50 against, one abstention. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Kalle Laanet, Urve Tiidus, Hannes Hanso, Raivo Aeg, Andres Metsoja, Maire Aunaste, Einar Vallbaum, Lauri Luik, Artur Talvik, Jaak Madison, Laine Randjärv and Arto Aas. The decision of the Governing Commission is not to be taken into account. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U334	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U335	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U336	Thank you. Since, for some reason, not all the initiators of this amendment have arrived in the Chamber, I ask for a one-minute break on behalf of the Free Party Group before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U337	Please, we'll continue in a minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U338	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the fourth amendment tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Kalle Laanet, Urve Tiidus, Hannes Hanso, Raivo Aeg, Andres Metsoja, Maire Aunaste, Einar Vallbaum, Lauri Luik, Artur Talvik, Jaak Madison, Laine Randjärv and Arto Aas. The decision of the commission is to leave it to account. Please take a stand and vote. 24 members voted in favour of the proposal, 44 against. The proposal was not supported. The fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account. And now these amendments are consistent: the fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth amendments. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Kalle Laanet, Urve Tiidus, Hannes Hanso, Raivo Aeg, Andres Metsoja, Maire Aunaste, Einar Vallbaum, Lauri Luik, Artur Talvik, Jaak Madison, Laine Randjärv and Arto Aas. The decision of the Governing Commission is not to be taken into account. Amendments 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 have been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The decision of the commission is to take full account. And now these proposals separately: Amendments 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 433. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U339	The 14th item is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Foundations of the Property Reform Act of the Republic of Estonia, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U340	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! At its meeting on Wednesday 31 May, the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Foundations of the Property Reform Act of the Republic of Estonia to send 434 to second reading. Uku Hänni, adviser to the Ministry of Finance, had been invited. The first reading, as you will remember, took place on 17 May and two amendments were received on time. One was from the initiator, the Ministry of Finance. At the outset, the text was such that, where operations cannot be carried out for any other reason beyond the control of the entitled subject, the time limit for completion of the operation shall be set by the Minister of Finance. By law, the Minister of Finance doesn't have that right, it's the Ministry of Finance. The Minister shall be able to decide to whom of the officials he grants that right. The second amendment came from the Central Party Group. Its content was to create a register of tenants who lived in houses returned by the Ministry of Finance and lost their homes in the course of the property reform. The commission made the following decisions: to take the second reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu plenary session on 7 June 2017 of the draft Act amending the Foundations of the Property Reform Act of the Republic of Estonia initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and, if the second reading is completed, to send the draft to the third reading by 14 June and to put it to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U341	Please, Andres Ammas, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U342	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! Could you explain in more detail why this proposal by the Centre Party Group was rejected?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U343	Since a Commission has been set up with the government, which has been given all the powers to make this register, and the Minister, together with the Commission, is the creator of this register if he so wishes, it does not have to be in this law. And in order to enter it into the law, we need to establish the conditions under which people can enter it in the register. There are several options, starting with that there are those who lived in the apartments that were returned, and then there are people who couldn't even privatize either the apartment or anything else. As such a decision has been taken by us and this commission is at the Ministry of Finance, all these powers have been delegated to the Minister and to the Commission with the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U344	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U345	Dear waitress, Based on what sources do you claim that this Commission has been empowered to establish a register of forced tenants? I am a Member of the Commission and have not heard of the mandate that you have just said in the big hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U346	Thank you for a good question. The Commission, together with the Minister, can decide for itself what things they need. No one has to give them the right or the obligation to do so. A commission has been set up by the government, where members of the Riigikogu have also been appointed, and this committee, together with the minister, can take these decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U347	Heimar Lenk, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U348	I understand he can. What you're talking about right now on this remote is the same statement as the fact that the earth can be flattened. The Commission has not raised this issue; the Ministry has not raised it. That's your only claim to the big hall right now, that's unfair, that's what you're saying right now. This issue has not been raised either in the Commission or anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U349	Thank you for a good question. Heimar, if you are a member of this committee, you will be able to raise this issue there. Maybe I was wrong. I wanted to say that it is possible for the Commission to raise this issue and to draw up this list. When they make this decision, what people will be placed in this register is not so clear. I haven't been able to privatize any apartments. I bought my place in 1992. Am I in this register now or not? To this end, this Commission has been set up with the government and the Commission is taking these decisions. And if there is a situation where a decision or law of the Riigikogu is needed, this commission can come to us with a draft via the Minister and the Ministry. If the Ministry had seen the need for it to have been included in the current draft, it would have been there when it was presented. The representative of the Ministry also justified it precisely in such a way as to first analyse who must be on that list and only then can his own decisions be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U350	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no request to speak. Two amendments to draft 434 have been tabled. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account. A second amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the decision of the commission is not taken into account. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U351	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U352	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the second amendment tabled on 434. It has been submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Please take a stand and vote. 18 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 37 against. The proposal was not supported. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 434. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U353	Today's 15th item is the second reading of draft law 419 on the amendment of traffic law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Mr. Erki Savisaare, member of the Economic Commission for the Chair, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U354	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Traffic Act, the Road Transport Act and the Tax Administration Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic. a on 3 April. The first reading in the Riigikogu's plenary session took place on 4 and 9 May and the first reading was completed. The purpose of the draft is to impose a road user charge on trucks and their trailers with a maximum mass exceeding 3500 kg. During the procedure of the draft, the Economic Commission received proposals and opinions from the Estonian Association of Car Companies and the Estonian Association of International Car Carriers. The proposed proposal aims to avoid double taxation of combinations of vehicles with a maximum mass of up to 48000 kilograms and up to 52000 kilograms by applying road user charges. The Commission discussed this issue. This amendment implies the need to amend Regulation No 114 of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, the conditions for special transport and the procedures for the execution of special transport operations and the granting of special permits, as well as the reimbursement of expenses incurred by the road owner, the special authorisation fee and the special fees imposed pursuant to subsections 341 (7) and 73 (11) of the Traffic Act, and Regulation No 42 "Technical requirements and equipment requirements of the motor vehicle and its trailer'. When we discussed this issue on 31 May, 1 June and also on 5 June, we learned that this amendment would lead to a technical regulation within the meaning of the Euro Directive 98/34/EU, which would require prior notification by the European Commission and a three-month waiting period within which the draft could not be adopted as a law. If the prior notification was omitted, its entry into force would be null and void. This amendment also requires coordination with local authorities, which are legally obliged to ensure road maintenance and road safety at the current level of road maintenance funding. It must also be taken into account that the maintenance of local roads is an autonomous task of the local government and that the State must also provide for additional funds to meet the requirements in order to establish additional requirements by the State. In addition, there were a number of drafting and technical problems in the draft. The Commission decided that this amendment could not be implemented with this draft. However, it was decided to initiate, as a result of this proposal, a draft law amending the Road Traffic Act, which was also passed on by the chairman of the committee this morning, so we have discussed this issue further. This draft has also passed technical and linguistic checks in the verbatim and translation department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, and the language editor's comments have been translated into the text of the draft in agreement with the initiator. By the deadline for formal amendments, 16 May at 5 p.m., amendments were tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as representative of the initiator of the draft, also submitted proposals for consideration to the lead committee. Decisions on amendments were taken by the Commission by vote and are included in the list of amendments. The Commission supported the proposals of the initiator of the draft and did not support the proposals of the Reform Party Group. In the interests of greater readability and in order to save time for the preparation of the documents submitted to the assembly, the explanations of the amendments are set out in each amendment. The commission adopted the decision to send draft law amending the Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments of other laws to the Riigikogu for a second reading in today's session on 7 June and to propose that the second reading be stopped. If the second reading is completed, the third reading could be carried out on 14 June and put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U355	The round of questions will be opened by Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U356	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, has said that at first he was also planning to apply road user charges only to cars with a mass exceeding 12 tonnes. But he later gave up the idea because the budget wanted to be implemented. However, please explain why the Commission did not accept the Minister's original, very sensible proposal, as we consider it. Was this even discussed at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U357	Certainly, the budgetary problem was not the reason for the Minister's change of mind. The reason was that the European directive provides for a uniform fee of up to 3.5 tonnes. If we wanted to make an exception and impose a fee of up to 12 tonnes instead of 3.5 tonnes of cars, this would mean asking for an exemption from the European Union. The initial consultation has shown that it would not be given to us because our digital e-solution is so effective that we cannot justify that starting at a lower level would lead to a significant additional administrative cost. Secondly, both the Commission and the Minister were approached by car carriers who said that it was fair to impose a road user charge of up to 3.5 tonnes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U358	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U359	Thank you, good vice chairman. A representative of the good Commission. Of course, the interest of the large carmakers is that this fee will also be charged on a smaller scale, because they will be paid less. At first reading, it was very clear that rural people, rural companies, were the most affected. Do you have special incentives for rural operators to solve this problem if the 3.5-tonne limit remains in force? Or maybe you are replacing negotiators with the European Union with people who can justify Estonia's distinction?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U360	Thank you. There are certain conditions for applying for a distinction and their success is not solely dependent on negotiators. Estonia has the image of a very strong e-state and, since the main road charge is collected by e-service, it is very difficult to prove that if this e-service is used more by a carrier, the administrative burden on the state will increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U361	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U362	Thank you, President-in-Office. A representative of the good Commission. I, too, come back to this issue of specificity. The fact is, there wasn't really any question of distinction, was there? But Denmark and Sweden have got it. I'd still say we gave up before the battle. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U363	Thank you. If I remember correctly, Denmark and Sweden have already introduced this distinction before the directive was adopted. That's what makes them special. Since the adoption of this directive, as far as I know, no one has received this distinction.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U364	Deniss Borodich.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U365	Thank you, dear birthday boy. Good waitress! My question concerns supervision. Perhaps you can explain to the Chamber what the Commission has discussed how much funds have been allocated for further monitoring? And how do you think the Estonian state can effectively collect this fee at the internal borders of the European Union, in other words, in ports, at the Latvian border, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U366	This issue was indeed discussed quite a bit in the Commission. The explanations provided by the Ministry consisted of the possibility of paying tolls at the larger border crossing points and negotiating with as many operators as possible so that there would be opportunities to buy this ticket near the border. In addition to being able to buy it online. A number of Latvian companies are also being negotiated. In other words, there should be a number of ways of paying this fee and the idea of making it relatively comfortable for the car driver. As far as supervision is concerned, there are really minor concerns. No additional funds have been allocated to the police for this purpose and monitoring will be carried out in the normal manner. However, there is a solution to the development of automatic surveillance. We're excited to see what happens.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U367	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U368	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! If I understood your previous response correctly, the Estonian Association of Car Companies and the Estonian Association of International Car Carriers will support the introduction of such a road user fee and the entire bill. Is that right? Now, reconfirm it, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U369	They have approached us with such a desire. Moreover, they wanted to increase this rate. However, we could not accept this wish; we maintained the rates initially planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U370	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U371	Thank you. A representative of the good Commission. Did it not occur to anyone in the Commission that these carriers' organisations, which, however, represent mostly large-car carriers, actually want to crowd out small-scale operators from the market and create a competitive advantage for themselves? Maybe that's why we're charging higher tariffs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U372	I don't believe it. Where goods can be transported, for example, by a vehicle of 5 tonnes, it is not economically reasonable to carry them with, for example, a vehicle of 20 tonnes. In any event, the owner of a smaller vehicle has the advantage of providing such a service.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U373	Deniss Borodich.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U374	Thank you. Good waitress! When this tax was introduced, the main argument was that road user fees are charged everywhere in Europe and that if our entrepreneurs pay it in Poland or Germany, why can't Poles and Germans be charged in Estonia. People had the impression that transit services were mainly meant. What is the share of international transport and local transport in the whole package?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U375	Thank you. I don't have those numbers on hand, but I'm guessing this ratio could be 1:4. One part is paid by foreign carriers in transit, and four parts come from our carriers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U376	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U377	Thank you. Elmar Vaher, Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, said that they do not have the means to carry out this inspection, that they do not have the capacity and that they also have no desire to undertake additional duties to carry out this inspection. What does that mean? If the government doesn't give extra money, you're going to introduce a law, I hope it still doesn't go through this hall, which will not be verified. And the consequence is that you've dealt with another great foolishness. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U378	Road transporters are also currently subject to requirements concerning the technical condition of the vehicle, the working and rest periods of the driver and many other things. All of this is checked and the payment of the road user fee is simply an additional item that is checked when the vehicle is detained. It does not need a huge additional resource.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U379	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U380	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Before you were asked if the transport companies were interested in this road user fee. And you said it was. That was the case in the Commission. But I'd like you to mark one more thing. Is it true that today we have put in place a bill that says that heavy goods vehicles can be used for non-logging purposes? That, in this case, the toll is accepted as it is in this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U381	I also mentioned in my introduction that we gave a new draft to the procedure, which aims to increase the permissible mass of heavy goods vehicles with six and seven axles from the current 44 tonnes to 52 tonnes. At present, only log trucks can benefit from this exception, but if this bill passes through the Riigikogu proceedings, it will be possible for all carriers, regardless of what they carry. And it really was one of the conditions that these entrepreneurs came to us with. I think this is a very sensible proposal and will certainly support the Estonian economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U382	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U383	Thank you, good vice chairman. Will the new draft that you have tabled today not go against the conditions of the European Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U384	None of them go against them. It is simply a question of which assurances and which exceptions must be requested. And it would be just a law that allows driving on Estonian roads with a heavier truck than is currently allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U385	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U386	Thank you. What do you mean when you talk about supporting the Estonian economy with this tax? My understanding is that if transport companies, including Estonian companies in the lion's section, and not foreign ones, who are only a negligible percentage of them, have to pay this fee, then prices will rise, the competitiveness of our exports and the competitiveness of the economy as a whole will deteriorate, people will be able to cope significantly. How does it develop our economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U387	Carriers have explained this in such a way that if they can send a single car instead of two cars, the weight of which is simply higher, the cost of transport will be lower and therefore their service will also be more competitive than that of their neighbours. That's where the benefits are.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U388	Honourable waitress! No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U389	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good ambassadors! The group of the Free Party cannot agree with the explanations that have just been made; they have been confused. It is sad to hear that the European Commission has not been asked for any exceptions at all, but is looking for new solutions that primarily serve the interests of large-scale entrepreneurs, not of medium- and small-sized enterprises. Living on land is already expensive, and now some more tariffs are being added to transport. And then they wonder why people flee from rural areas and focus mainly on Tallinn. I don't think this approach is right. If these fees are to be imposed, this could be done in such a way that regulation protects Estonia's own entrepreneurs. The Free Party Group supports the amendments tabled by the Reform Party Group and, at the same time, proposes to suspend the second reading of draft 419. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U390	There are no further requests to speak. Let us examine the amendments together, there are ten of them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. A second amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U391	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U392	Let's vote! Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the 419 second amendment tabled by the Group of the Reform Party. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was voted in favour by 20, against 45 delegates. The proposal put forward by the Reform Party was not supported. The third amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U393	I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U394	I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, which the steering committee has decided to disregard. Please vote! 19 votes in favour, 44 against. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Reform Party and the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U395	Please vote on this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U396	Please! Are we ready to vote? I shall put to the vote the fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Reform Party. It is the decision of the Governing Commission to disregard this. Please vote! 21 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 44 against. The proposal was not supported. The sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take them fully into account. Let us review these sequels: the sixth amendment. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U397	Thank you. I would have liked to have been at the seventh place...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U398	Amendment 7. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U399	Thank you. I have a editorial question. I support this point, but I have only just noticed, not when it was earlier in the debate, that foreign armed forces are called here. What foreign countries are meant for? Are you still friendly foreign countries? Or are the machines of hostile foreign armed forces exempt from that charge?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U400	As we are now voting on the amendments, you, Mr Põlluaas, can express your opinion by voting accordingly. Let me get this straight. You want to put this amendment to the vote? Henn Fieldace, may I have your attention for a moment? Do you want to put this amendment to the vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U401	No, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U402	The eighth, ninth and tenth amendments are also tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take them fully into account. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 419, but the representatives of the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party have proposed to interrupt the second reading of draft 419. We have to vote on this. I shall put to the vote the second reading of draft proposal 419 by the Estonian Reform Party and the Estonian Free Party Group. Please take a stand and vote. 21 parliamentarians voted in favour of the two proposals with the same content, against 45. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 419 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U403	Today's 16th item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Traffic Act initiated by members of the Riigikogu Erki Savisaare, Viktor Vassilyev, Raivo Põldaru, Arno Silla, Jaanus Marrandi, Aivar Koka, Einar Vallbaumi, Kalle Palling, Kristen Michali, Artur Talvik, Kalvi Tõvi, Krista Aru, Liisa Oviir and Märt Sults. Mr Raivo Põldaru, Member of the Economic Commission for the Chair, please present.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U404	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Traffic Act 399 was here at first reading on 3 May. The deadline for amendments was 16 May. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the proposals at its meeting on 31 May, which included representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior, the Police and Border Guard Board and the Ministry of Finance, who commented on the amendments proposed. Amendment 13, which deals with the nature of liability insurance, gave the most consideration. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained this. The Ministry of Finance considers that this point should be excluded from the draft law as robot-mobile vehicles are similar to other vehicles of this kind, such as electric wheelchairs, mini-mopeds, bicycles, electric carriages and, in their case, no insurance obligations. However, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Police and Border Guard Board were in favour of imposing insurance obligations. They argued that if such a requirement were to apply, accidents could be resolved better without intervention by police officers. However, the Commission decided to delete this amendment by 3 votes: 2 in the draft. A total of 17 amendments were tabled, 16 of which were submitted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, one from Kalle Laanet and Deniss Borodich. Most of the proposals were taken into account in a consensual, non-consensual manner in the 13th proposal. The last, 17th proposal was voted out. The proposal by Deniss Borodichi and Kalle Laanet was to include in the draft a point that would also recognise Chinese, Mexican and Indonesian driving licences in Estonia. This was not supported. In conclusion, there was consensus on the 15 proposals, not on the two proposals. The Commission decided to propose that the second reading of the draft be placed on the agenda by 7 June, that the second reading be closed and that the second reading be sent to the third reading when the second one is closed by 14 June and that the final vote be taken. All these decisions were consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U405	The first question is asked by Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U406	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Would you explain why the Commission did not take Kalle Laanet and Deniss Borodich's proposal into account? What were the substantive reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U407	The substantive reasons are set out in the explanatory memorandum. There was a vote and there were two votes in favour and four against. These countries are not covered by the Geneva Convention on Road Traffic. There may be doubts about the driving licences they issue. That was the reason, and the Members of the Commission voted in favour of 2.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U408	Honourable waitress! No further questions for you. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. We will examine 17 proposals for amendment of draft 399. Amendments 1 to 16 have been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take them fully into account. However, I shall mention them separately: the first amendment, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth, the seventh, the eight, the ninth, the tenth, the 11th, the 12th, the 13th, the 14th, the 15th and the 16th amendments. The 17th amendment has been tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Kalle Laanet and Deniss Borodich; the decision of the commission is to disregard them. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 399. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U409	Today's 17th item is the second reading of draft law 409 on the amendment of the Audit Activities Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Economic Commission for the Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U410	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, A debate was held in the Committee on Economic Affairs on 1 June before the second reading of the draft law amending the law on audit activities and related amendments to other laws. Kurmet Ojamaa, Head of the Department of Enterprise and Accounting Policy of the Ministry of Finance, and lawyer Taivo Põrk introduced the content of the amendments to the members of the committee and answered further questions. Among other things, the position was drawn up on the proposals received from the Audit Chamber in accordance with the procedure. At the meeting of the Commission, amendments were examined and formal procedural decisions were also taken. All the amendments were proposed by the commission. The proposals were considered to be taken into account by the Commission on the basis of the reasons given in the explanations attached to the amendments. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to put the draft on the agenda for the second reading of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 7 June and to propose that the second reading be closed when the second reading is completed, to refer it to the third reading by 14 June and to put it to the final vote. I would like to say to the members of the Riigikogu that there is a very good decision here: this is Amendment No 2. We know that in the early 90s of the last century, when the opportunity opened up to start up businesses, many made themselves a public limited company. We have family businesses that have had strict audit requirements on them. We proposed that the audit of the annual accounts be compulsory for any public limited liability company with more than two shareholders. Small shareholders, or family companies, have exactly the same legal requirements as private limited companies. This will significantly reduce the administrative burden on our businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U411	There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you! Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. In that case, we will examine the amendments. 18 amendments have been received. Since these are the proposals put forward by the commission and the proposal of the commission is to take them fully into account, let me only mention the numbers of the amendments. Let's go through them. Amendment 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 409 be terminated. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U412	Ladies and gentlemen, Today's 18th item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Natural Gas Act and the Electricity Market Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Jaanus Marrandi, member of the Economic Commission for a chair as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U413	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Natural Gas Act 350 was handed over to the Riigikogu as early as December. It was launched by the Government of the Republic on 12 December. The first reading took place on 8 February and by the deadline for submitting amendments; by 22 February no amendments were received from the Riigikogu on the draft. During the draft procedure, AS Eesti Gaas and the household consumer Allan Tohv repeatedly addressed the Commission, who proposed amendments to the draft. The representative of the initiator of the draft act communicated his views on the proposals contained in the letters to the Commission on an ongoing basis. The persons who referred to the Commission to their proposals were able to meet with the representative of the lead committee and to attend a meeting of the Commission or a meeting of the working group in order to present and justify their views. The Commission also received a letter from the Chancellor of Justice on the regulation contained in the draft. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications received some suggestions during the work. In addition, the initiator's representative formulated several proposals as a result of discussions in the working group. Preparation of amendments for discussion in the lead committee took place on 24 May in a working group of the Commission involving representatives of the initiator of the draft and a representative of AS Eesti Gaas. The draft has also gone through the language between the two readings. Let me remind you very briefly of the main discussion that has taken place around this draft. In preparation for the first reading of the draft, the main debate revolved around the fact that gas is, as we know, a substance that expands during heating and the calorific value of the gas that reaches consumers through the gas pipeline depends quite a lot on the temperature. So if the temperature is higher, the gas's calorific value is lower. At first reading, it was also noted that household customers do not have gas gauges that take account of this difference, based on formulas. Due to the differences in temperatures, household customers have actually paid almost 7% more systematically than the meters would have had to. This is precisely the result of these pre-written formulas. The main discussion between the two readings of the draft, between the first reading and the second reading, focused on minimising the possibility of introducing some formulas or coefficients in the gas calculation. It could be regulated analogously with electricity and water, for which we are used to that the basis of calculation is meters. As a result of all this long debate, we have come to the point that, in fact, gas accounting in its current form will disappear for the majority of households. Let us now move on to the amendments which have been tabled in total by 10 pieces. Most of them deal with the same issue of gas measurement. One of them, perhaps the last one, concerns what has happened in the meantime. If you accept this bill, you will see that the law amending the Natural Gas Act and the Electricity Market Act has now been written here, i.e. the word 'electricity market law' has been added. That is the tenth amendment. Now, to talk very briefly about meters, they will be installed on home consumers. Network companies will have to install them by 1 January 2020, i.e. this is a transitional period. And this concerns those household customers whose annual gas demand is more than 750 cubic metres. For gas consumers who, for example, have one electric stove, or lower consumption, it is clearly not wise to put a gas meter, because the price of all this gas is simply so low. Therefore, the proposed amendments to this law state that these domestic customers have the opportunity to install a gas meter for themselves, for their own money, while more than 750 cubic metres of gas per year is allocated to companies that consume gas. How much does it usually cost? This was also one of the main issues in our committee's discussions. The price of such a gas meter is about EUR 100 and the price of installation is EUR 40, so a total of EUR 140. These are remotely readable gas gauges. So in a few or three years, we'll have a pretty modern system in place. Let us move on to formal decision-making issues. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 30 May between first and second reading. There was a debate on these ten amendments and a hearing on the views of the citizens who referred to the Commission. Timo Tatar, Head of the Energy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Rein Vaks, expert, were invited to the meeting of the Commission as representatives of the initiator of the draft and, in addition, addressed to the Commission in writing to Allan Tohv, the natural gas domestic consumer already mentioned above. The debate revealed that the members of the Commission unanimously supported all the changes. I will mention nine amendments here. The tenth amendment needs to be presented separately. This is a proposal relating to the amendment of electricity market law and relating to Article 3 of Directive 2009/72 of the European Union and some other articles. Here are two details. First of all, according to the Directive, the seller has the right to act, regardless of the Member State in which he is registered. Therefore, the wording of Paragraph 15 (1) of our Electricity Market Act is amended so that any legal entity registered in the EEA State may be the electricity undertaking and the capital requirements imposed on the company remain valid. So far, our Electricity Market Act formulated it in such a way that the electricity company may be a public limited company or limited company registered in the Estonian business register or at the time of its establishment. That's the first detail. Secondly, the amendment to Paragraph 95 of the Electricity Market Act allows the Competition Authority to impose a financial penalty of 10% of the annual turnover of the last audited financial year on the transmission system operator and the vertically integrated distribution system operator in the event of a breach of the obligation. It transposes the requirement referred to in Article 37 (4) (d) of Directive 2009/72, according to which the regulator must have the power to impose effective, proportionate and maintained penalties on an electricity undertaking which does not comply with its obligations under the Directive or the relevant legal binding decision of the regulatory authority or the Agency. There were thus smaller fines in Estonia, and the European Union Directive provides for higher penalties. The question now is, as always, whether it is sensible to amend the electricity market law in line with a single draft, i.e. the natural gas law. In fact, the deadline for the removal of the infringement of this directive was 20 May, so it is urgent and is therefore included in this draft. At the same time, it can be observed that the regulation of the natural gas and electricity markets is largely based on similar principles. So I have briefly spoken about the main debate that took place in the Committee on Economic Affairs and also presented you with ten amendments. Let us now go to formal decisions. The Commission proposed to put the draft law amending the Law on Natural Gas and the Electricity Market Act on the plenary agenda by 7 June. a, by today, propose that the second reading be stopped (all of these decisions were consensual) and that this draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is completed by 14 June (this decision was also given by consensus). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U414	There are also questions for the rapporteur. First, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U415	Thank you, Mr President. You have given a very thorough overview of the Commission's discussions, Madam Rapporteur. But I read in this explanatory memorandum that the Commission also dealt very thoroughly with the proposals of one citizen. Were these suggestions made by the citizen taken into account, and was he satisfied with the whole discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U416	I am very pleased with this question. In fact, I also noted in my report that we had an excellent opportunity to see the representative of Eesti Gaas (so-called a gas company synonymous with Estonia) in the Commission, the system operator and, on the other hand, the household consumer. I would call him a home consumer with a flexible mindset, who has been through a lot of trials and who had made this very clear to himself. So we had a great opportunity to see the representatives of the highest level and of the home consumer. And on this basis, I think that this compromise, which provided for the installation of these gas meters, was originally on it, let us be honest, also bureaucratic, resistance from the ministry, is actually quite a decent solution. I think this installation of gas meters will lead to the organisation of Estonian gas affairs, the 21st century of the gas economy, where there will be no more vague interaction with formulas and calculations. Measurement is still measurement. Therefore, I think that this household consumer was mostly satisfied with these things. Of course, some questions remained. However, the discussions revealed that not only this natural gas law, but also the competition law, which does not allow any nuances to be added to the price of natural gas, if there is some kind of loss in the system, which still happens in the case of pipelines, will protect the consumer. So, in fact, it is regulated by other laws. I think that all the parties in this debate were satisfied.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U417	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! Let's open the negotiations. First call chair, Aivar Koka!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U418	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The last question made me come in here. I also have to thank Allan Tohvi: when this bill came to our committee, we noticed a slight mistake because of him. All the gas companies had done a good job and a coefficient had been included in the draft, which came from the Ministry. Sometimes we are upset that we are communicating with entrepreneurs and visiting them, but I think that was a good thing about this bill. On the one hand, the Ministry found out that gas meters did not pay EUR 2500, as we were originally told to be of a magnitude, so it would not be possible to put them on private consumers. Thanks to Eesti Gaas, this meter costs about 100 euros and installation 40 euros. And that's where the whole procedure went on. They held it down for a long time, and they wanted to put the coefficient here, the second and the third. I liked that a member of the board of Eesti Gaas said very clearly: if it is 30 degrees cold outside and I have a meter outside and you have a room, then our difference is 30%. The temperature's just starting to play along here. To date, the agreement has also been written into the draft law, and these gas meters measure both temperature and pressure and are ready to go to remote control. I'm glad Elering is preparing the Smart House program. We will be able to connect our electricity and heating industries to this system if we want to, and the programme will manage when we take up one, another or third thing. Once again, I would like to thank Allan Tohvi, all the members of the Commission, the officials and those who have been accompanying this bill. This was not an easy way: the argument and the screaming were many. But I believe that the draft that we currently have on this table is satisfied with the Chancellor of Justice, the end-users and businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U419	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations, I will close the negotiations. We will examine the amendments. All ten amendments have been tabled by the lead committee and it is also the position of the lead committee to take full account of them. So once again I will just name the numbers: the first, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth, the seventh, the eighth, the ninth and the tenth amendments. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 350. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U420	19th and last item in today's session is the first reading of the Bill 420 of Amendment of § 40 of the Forest Act initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. I ask Jaak Madison, Member of the Riigikogu, to present a speech chair for the initiator!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U421	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On 6 April of this year, the Conservative People's Party Group initiated a draft amendment to § 40 of the Forest Act, the new wording of which in paragraph 10 would be as follows: 'For the protection of the fauna during their breeding period, no cutting shall be made or the export of the forest shall be carried out between 15 April and 15 June. ' The purpose of this change. The aim of the felling reef is to protect the environment during the period of natural emergence in order to ensure the protection of birds, fauna and forest soils and to reduce the spread of fungal diseases. Due to practice, which has also been implemented by RMK or the State Forest Management Centre, such a period of cutting peace has been in state forests for more than ten years and has been recommended in private forests. Most forest owners have followed it, but not all. In order to harmonise the use of forests, the execution of logging and the export of timber in state forests and private forests, it would also be reasonable to regulate it in law. Undoubtedly, private forest owners have the right and the freedom to manage their property, but the forest is also our national wealth, which must be cared for at the highest, legislative level. In spring, during the emergence of nature and the nesting of birds, environmental balance is particularly important. At the same time, during the felling period, it is possible to deal with forest planting, maintenance of young people and cleaning of forest targets. The effects of the law. The main effect is undoubtedly that the law will help to reduce the imbalance in the forest ecosystem and, at the same time, promote sustainable forest management. When it comes to compliance with European Union law, the introduction of a cutting peace for private forest owners also corresponds fully to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the Treaties of the European Union. This change will not lead to any additional costs for the state budget, as there is already a period of cutting peace in the state forests. A certain cost, must admit, may be incurred by private forest owners who lose the opportunity to carry out felling work during this period. At the same time, as has also been said, most private owners follow this recommendation of cutting peace, and this small minority, which has not done so, can certainly time the felling work to an earlier time. Nor does the introduction of a felling reef entail the need for new legislation. The law enters into force in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U422	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Peter Ernits first, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U423	Good manager! Good waitress, I think it's a great idea! One forest belongs to the state, that means all of us, and the other is Ermets, maybe one piece to me, another piece to you, third to someone else. But the rules are different: in the state forest, birds can nest peacefully, in private forests can't. So, in my opinion, that law should have been long gone. But my question is why there is some force against it, the law of nature applies on one side, but it must not apply on the other side.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U424	Thank you, Honourable Asker. There may be supernatural forces or other forces, but I can't comment on that more precisely because there are no personal contacts with these forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U425	Jaanus Marrand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U426	Thank you! This is how I have understood that this cutting peace in the state forest is a declaration of good will, and it concerns clear cutting above all, not all cutting. That's the first thing. Secondly, I have also spoken to the management of RMK on this subject. However, there is such an attitude that, of course, nature needs to be preserved and tried, but the reality does not always allow it. The years vary and it can be said that this recommendation has not been followed by one hundred percent in the state forest either. As far as the private forest is concerned, I dare say the opposite: in most cases it is still not observed in the private forest, in fewer cases it will probably be observed. Perhaps you have no links with private forest managers or land managers. But I'm asking why you think it's a matter of law. Why should this be regulated by law in the case of private forests? It's gonna take away their money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U427	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Undoubtedly, we also have contacts with private forest owners, and we have a very good overview of their positions, which do not support one hundred percent of this bill or its purpose. When it comes to the withdrawal of money, of course, it would be best for forest owners not to have cutting peace limits, there would be no restrictions whatsoever. This would undoubtedly serve the interests of the Estonian economy and industry. At the same time, there must be a compromise and a middle ground where the interests of private forest owners as well as the interests of the general public and nature are protected. I also fully agree that the years are not brothers. Rather, the question is why RMK imposed it more than ten years ago as a 'good will' statement, once this goodwill statement has been complied with in a timely manner each year. And why from that date to that date? We know there's still thick snow on the ground at the end of April for a few years, but in the second year, the blue flowers will bloom. Yeah, years aren't brothers. So I completely admit that this solution is not and will never be perfect. There are always certain interest groups or parties who are missing something or whose interests are not fully protected, i.e. as they might be. Thus, the perfect solution does not exist, but it is undoubtedly important that this issue is raised in terms of legislation, as forest-related issues are currently topical in society. And when we look at the felling volumes and the growth of the forest, it's not just the property of certain interest groups. It is a topic which is in the interest of society as a whole, of the public, and which must be discussed at the highest level, at parliamentary level.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U428	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I didn't know exactly where you were going with your argument. Are you aware, then, of the extent to which this agreement is respected in the state forests? As far as I can tell, these are primarily nature conservation restrictions in areas where it is impossible to cut down the forest anyway. As Mr Marrand said, this is not really being respected in the state forests, and Mr Ernits tried to tell us that there is no such thing in reality. Your proposal is simply to ban it by law. Where did you get this idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U429	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U430	Thank you, Honourable Asker. If you have information that the setters of the harvesting peace period themselves do not comply with this limitation, it is certainly very important information that should also be made public. Why, then, has RMK already set a period of cutting peace more than ten years ago, during which no clear-cut work or timber exports will be carried out if this limit is not actually met? As far as we know, when we look at RMK's behavior, they have at least presented to the public that this period of felling peace is in place. If this does not actually apply, I think it would be very important information for the public if the State Forest Management Centre, which owns about 50% of the forest resources in Estonia, does not fulfil its own restriction on logging. The previous question was about the real effect of the law. In fact, when we are talking about a reduction in money or a contraction of industry due to a period of felling that does not carry out forest exports or clear cutting, it only affects 0.2% of private forest owners. And this information comes directly from the private forest federation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U431	Jaanus Marrand's second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U432	Thank you! I see you have a very black and white approach to this matter. RMK, of course, strives to observe cutting peace as a goodwill agreement and does so above all in the case of clear cutting. But as I said, the years are not brothers, so not one hundred percent and not always. Now, from the opinion that, in the case of private forest owners, any felling could be banned by law. If a good and respectful private forest owner who respects nature takes on an axe and does thinning or lighting cutting in his forest, it is not a proportionate step. And there is no way to understand why it should be done on the basis of a law. Private forest owners can adopt a declaration of goodwill in the same way and then try to stick to it as much as necessary. It is not necessarily and always about commands- bans- the world is not black and white.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U433	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I am pleased to hear from the Socialists that the world is not bound by orders or prohibitions because I have had some other opinion. But I'll come back to the question. Like I said, it's not black and white. I didn't say it was black and white. And like an intelligent human being, it would be polite to let me answer to the end, not to interrupt. Thank you, Mr. Marrand. This bill is at first reading, and I am not saying that the solution here is perfect. I am pleased if you are proposing an amendment for second reading. According to my knowledge, the lead committee, the Committee on the Environment, supported this draft, led by the chairman of the committee, your political partner, Mr Rainer Vakra. So you can certainly continue to debate this issue at the premises of the group. As you said, we can specify for the second reading that, for example, clear cutting is not done, but thinning is permitted with certain restrictions. So I think your proposals are a welcome and very good basis for an intelligent debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U434	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be recalled that indeed there is no good practice in the Riigikogu. So let's both ask the questioner and the answerer. Now Artur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U435	Good vice chairman! Good waitress! The Free Party Group met with representatives of the private forest federation today and we talked about all kinds of forestry issues. The biggest problem with the legislative changes we are discussing today was precisely the introduction of this cutting peace. In the course of this bill, have you mentioned the private forest coalition on several occasions? Have you met the private forest federation? Have they communicated this position to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U436	Thank you, Reverend Asker! We've met. The day before yesterday, our group had a meeting with the management of the private forest union, with whom we also talked more broadly about forest issues, part of which was undoubtedly this draft. They have expressed their opinion that one hundred percent of them cannot support it. There may be many dangers for them. At the same time, we cannot rely on the interests of just one category of stakeholders when implementing the drafts, but on a broader perspective. However, we have also said that, in the course of the procedure for this draft, we are fully open to complementing it, making proposals. This does not mean that, at the end of the third reading, this draft should be adopted in exactly the form it is currently written in black white.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U437	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U438	Thank you. Good colleague! When, from 15 April to 15 June, there's gonna be a felling peace in the woods, I mean, a lot of people are used to having to work these two months. If they don't go to the woods, what do you offer for these jobs? Do they all go on vacation, or what about the large number of people who are used to working?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U439	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Of course, it requires planning of works, just as the State Forest Management Centre has done, which has generally followed this good practice. Let us remind you that RMK owns about half of Estonia's forest resources and they plan their work in such a way that the sawmills and the forest industry have reserves for the period when they cannot carry out logging works or transport the forest out. The same fate would undoubtedly await private forest owners, who should plan their work more accurately. As has already been mentioned, this really only concerns 0.2% of private forest owners. Of course, this is an important issue for these people, but during the planning of the works, it will certainly be possible to schedule these forest works. And as has also been said, these dates are not set in stone; they do not have to be finally so determined by law. For this draft, these dates are one of RMK's best practices for cutting peace.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U440	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U441	Good manager! Good waitress, you keep stressing that this affects only 0.2% of private forest owners. How can you say that if you ban all private forest owners from doing forest work? At the same time, you promise, I'll see, planting trees, tending juveniles, cleaning the woods often. Deforestation often also means felling trees, which depends on how often something is done there. But explain that percentage to me. You may know exactly how many private forest owners we have. I do, but I'm gonna ask you that too. Is that really only 0.2 percent? How do you take it? I go into the woods to make firewood at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U442	Thank you, Honourable Asker. We are certainly not talking here about making firewood or banning it. My data comes from a private forest federation with over 100000 Estonian private forest owners. According to the Union, 0.2% of them are dependent on logging and timber exports during this period. That's their data, and that's what I'm saying. I don't think they have any reason to lie to me or give us false information. Of course, when it comes to the production of firewood or the cleaning, planting of forest targets, it also involves, for example, cutting down sick trees. Even before I remember correctly, Mr Marrandi asked the same thing, I said that this is the perfect place to make an amendment. One might specify, for example, that it is forbidden to make clear cuttings or that on a given surface the cutting must not cross a cubic metre. All of this can be clarified, it can be corrected. So if you have any good suggestions, they're all welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U443	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U444	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress, can you tell me what the practice of other countries is?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U445	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I'm sorry, I can't. According to normal practice, we have not taken over the experiences of other countries, but we have followed a national example. Perhaps this draft comes solely from the good practice of the State Forest Management Centre, which has been in force for more than ten years. But, of course, I can look up examples for second reading in neighbouring countries, such as Latvia, Lithuania and Finland.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U446	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U447	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'll make a little line first. I'm seeing some dissonance here. There was a very heated debate here today on the cutting of spruce and spruce. All progressive mankind was united in defending the forest and nature. Now I see there's a lot of bitching going on around here. Don't bitch! Let us consider that there is a reef so that we do not harm the populations of our chickens and other birds nesting at that time or the populations of animals. This is a question of natural wealth that cannot be accurately converted into logs. And we're talking forest exports and cutting peace. These are things that can be planned in advance. The cutting is basically winter. And the tree, which is meant to be a fruit tree, will be felled out of the wind in February at the time of the old month. There you go! So don't bitch! Dear waitress, can you tell us what is the volume of the cubic metres transported out of the private forest?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U448	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I'll reply to your introduction. No doubt there are lab people in this hall who talk about you at one hour and at another hour. But it's inevitable, and it's not the mirror of society, it's free to say what they want. Unfortunately, whether we like it or not, we have to accept it. So much for the number of cubic metres that the private forest federation told us that during this period it would be 5,000 to 10,000 cubic metres. But I can, of course, retrieve the exact data and report it to the next reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U449	Aivar Chef, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U450	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm still coming back to the subject of two months of work and you're telling me to do something else. Not all private forest owners have sawmills. If you think we all have sawmills, you're wrong. My company used to have a sawmill, but as a civilian, I didn't have one. But I have Eramets. Why does someone try to regulate my management and my operations by whether or not I can go into the woods on some date? And then are we going to shut down the rest of the business and industry for two months? As you know, forestry and the timber industry together account for 4.6% of GDP. They employ 35000 people, have a turnover of over 3 billion and export is three times higher than imports. This is one of the strongest industries in Estonia, but we are going to have some senseless talk here: if the tree does not fall down at that time, then the bird nest is, but if it does, it will not be.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U451	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to limit the question to one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U452	Thank you, Reverend Asker! No doubt we are not talking about the fall of one tree or the export of one tree, we are talking about logging and the export of the forest. These are two very different terms. We can demagogue and put everyone together if you want, but these aren't facts, this isn't real. When we talk about finding other jobs for people, I have not told you to look for another job for this period. I said that the work will be timed, just like it's done at RMK. If you are not satisfied with this, as an ambassador to the Coalition Party, you will undoubtedly be able to propose to RMK at government level so that you can forget about this cutting peace at all. Let's cancel! That's one way to go. The current idea takes one example of good practice of logging in the state forest; we extend it to private forest owners, which will undoubtedly also lead to the timing of works. As you yourself know very well, no sawmill, no industry, will stand during this period of time. Stocks have been collected in previous months so that these industries can continue to work during the period when clear cutting cannot be done. When we talk about the interests of private forest owners, why we deprive them of the right to manage the forest during this period, there are things like social interests. There are wider sectors that do not limit themselves to personal interests, such as state forests, ermets, nature, society. So we can say yes, of course, we are somehow violating the right of private forest owners to manage the forest whenever they want. That is certainly what we are doing, but it is in the general public's interest. That's it. This is about the same thing if, for example, we violate people's right to cross national borders. It is a restriction of his freedom, but it is in the public interest that we do not have any diplomatic conflict. We can begin to compare with anything where we restrict the freedom of action of a private person or a private owner. However, this must be done at national level if it conflicts with the interests of the public and society. Today, when this restriction is implemented by the State Forest Management Centre, which owns half of the forest and who also manages the forest, and where people also work, where there are lumbermen and where sawmills depend on this production, we cannot talk about restricting someone's rights to lower the forest and taking away their private property legally.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U453	Priit Onion, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U454	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, I really don't think this proposal of yours makes much sense. You indicated that representatives of private forest owners were meeting with your group, and your party chairman said a little while ago that the forests would be cut in winter. Did you actually hear them tell you that, or is this your interpretation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U455	Thank you, Reverend Asker! The private forest owners confirmed our position and the view that the best time for felling is January-February, the coldest period.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U456	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U457	Good manager! Good waitress! In the winter we have such a thing as a Christmas peace and in the summer there will be a cutting peace in the state forest. How do forest dwellers, reindeer, foxes, tedred, know that there is an ermets somewhere, a state forest somewhere, and somewhere they have some peace? Should a Christmas peace be established only in the state forest and put an end to it in a private forest?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U458	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I think this is a very interesting idea that can be developed and initiated. I also recall that every member of the Riigikogu has the right to initiate draft laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U459	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U460	Thank you. I have a specific question concerning this single-claused draft law. You used some numbers, and I think the correctness of the numbers in this debate is extremely important. You mentioned that, in this two months, this limit only concerns 5 000 to 1 000 cubic metres. Did I really hear those numbers right?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U461	Thank you, Reverend Asker! You heard these numbers correctly, but of course I may have been wrong about the facts. I said it from my memory, but right after I said these numbers, I'm going to specify them for second reading to make sure the numbers are correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U462	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! I would ask for a presentation by the Commission by Mr Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U463	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was initiated by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party on 6 April. The objective is to ensure the protection of the fauna during their breeding period in accordance with § 40 (10) of the Forest Act, so as not to permit cutting or the export of the forest during the period 15 April to 15 June. This draft was discussed by the Committee on the Environment at a meeting on 16 May 2017. At the meeting of the committee, the representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Arno Sild, presented the draft and answered the questions of the members of the committee. At the same meeting, the Commission proposed that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 a.m. on 16 June 2017. So what happened at the Commission on 16 May? In addition to the representative of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Arno Silla, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment Marku Lamp, Head of the Forest Department of the Ministry of the Environment Riina Martverk and Adviser to the Legal Department of the Ministry of the Environment Merike Laidvee were invited. Mr Sild explained that his party had initiated this draft and that the aim was to establish a two-month cutting peace for private forest owners. I'm going to read out a small paragraph on the opinion of the ministerial representatives. Marku Lamp, the Vice-Chancellor of the sector in question, pointed out that the felling peace is applied in the event of an innovation cut in the state forests, and several organisations have already established it on their own initiative in private forests. The best practice of spring forest management should certainly be implemented by forest owners, but the ban on cutting by law can be very restrictive and unfair for small owners. Similarly, during the preceding or subsequent period, the spring summer felling would be forced to do forest work, and more intensive management would probably damage the forest more than if the works could be distributed throughout the year. In this context, in cooperation with ornithologists, it is planned to assess for which species the spring felling is dangerous and how dangerous it is for them when drawing up the forestry development plan. What did the Commission members ask the draft rapporteur? Andres Metsoja asked whether the aim was to establish a complete felling peace or whether it was intended for a certain type of felling, as in the case of RMK. A representative of the party that drew up the draft proposal claimed that clear cutting was primarily intended, but that the draft would prohibit the export of any felling and forest during the period 15 April to 15 June. He explained that during this period the soil was very soft and heavy machines were breaking the roads. Valeri Korb wondered what work could be done in a private forest during this period. The rapporteur explained that during the felling period it would be possible to deal with, for example, forest planting, maintenance of young people and cleaning of forest targets. In addition, the representative of the Ministry said that during the felling period, RMK is involved in the maintenance of both the young and the forest and, due to its size, it is really easier for them to share the works. They manage 50% of Estonia's forests as a whole, although 40% of them are protected to a lesser or greater extent. Private owners do not have such opportunities and this would be a very important restriction for them. For my part, I would like to make some clarifications about what has been going on here in the meantime. Of course, the private forest federation has not taken the view that it is a bit difficult for them to support it, but they have considered it to be one of the most restrictive drafts at all. On the other hand, it has to be recognised that RMK does not carry out such a radical siege as this draft does in the state forests. I repeat that RMK is based first on the weather, because spring may come later or sooner. The principle is still such as the Road Administration's attitude towards return tyres: when snow is down on 1 April, 1 May or 1 June, it is still possible to drive back tyres. Perhaps in practice the peasant's mansion is not simply the date of the black white wall attached to it or derived from it. On the other hand, cleaning cutting and other such forestry works have actually been allowed during this period, which this bill will not allow in the future private forests, in the Estonian forests at all. In summary, it has to be said that this is a very substantial and clear restriction affecting the forest industry. I have recently had a great deal of contact with forest companies because of one of our previous items on the agenda, i.e. the draft amendment to the Forest Act 396. No one has dared to go out with such a forceful restriction before, and the reason is very simple; it seriously hits private forest owners, hits the forest industry. In reality, in today's Estonian conditions, no one is stocking the forest in advance for two months. This would mean that at some point the intensity of felling would be very high and at another point the machines would be standing. I say, friends from EKRE, welcome to my boat! You've clearly gotten even bolder. Otherwise, you criticize any ideas, but no one in this Chamber has ever come before because of such restrictions. So I say again: welcome! Here's something to discuss. The EKRE Group as a whole has shown by this draft that they are changeable and learnable and often make decisions based on which way the wind blows. So I'm glad to see that the environmental winds are blowing in any case in your case. The Commission also decided to support this draft, albeit with a clause that we are still asking the Ministry to review these principles, to review the period of time and to review the conditions under which it makes sense. The starting point for us to continue discussing the concept of felling peace in society is, in any case, to be welcomed. That is why the Committee on the Environment supported this draft and also decided to appoint Rainer Vakra, a member of the Committee on the Environment as rapporteur and to put it on the agenda today, 7 June. It was also proposed to close the first reading of the draft. The deadline for amendments is 16 June 2017. All decisions were taken by consensus. So good luck and strength for us in this work! I believe that such bold thoughts will certainly lead us forward. However, I do think that both private forest and state forest should, as we discussed today with regard to the Forest Act, be seen by one standard and follow the same rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U464	There are also questions for the rapporteur. First, please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U465	Thank you. The whole point of this bill is one of the rules for everyone. But it's great to hear you praise that the Conservative People's Party is brave and powerful. Indeed, we are the bravest and most powerful party in Estonia. And as I understand it, it's contagious. At the committee meeting, we managed to inspire sots, so that at least they had a temporary backbone, because you supported this draft. I have a question as to whether your group will support this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U466	Thank you. I repeat the principle of this draft that we are talking about cutting peace, and this is what our group supports. But, of course, the destruction of rural areas in this form, as is your really bold proposal, I think our group does not support. Once again, it is wrong, firstly, to say (clearly) in the draft, that the breeding period is 15 April to 15 June, because it depends on the seasons. On the other hand, the numbers used by the previous waitress are wrong, that is, 5,000 to 10,000 cubic metres. Friends, let's go into the woods and see that it's maybe a few men's firewood. We're still talking about eight million cubic metres a year being cut off from a private forest. Any mathematics turns out that there's a zero missing here, we're not talking about the fluctuations of the first numbers. I believe that if this law is adopted in this form, all possible ECRE stories about how they breathe new breathing into the economy or stand for rural life can be stopped. And you guys can pack your things.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U467	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U468	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! I'm sure it's those who want to pack. And if you feel like you need to start packing, you can do it with your party. I'm sure we're not gonna do that. But right now I feel like déjà vu. You unanimously supported our initiative in the Commission. This is truly commendable and shows not our ability to learn, for we have always been firmly out of line, but rather your ability to learn, because you have changed the direction of the wind and started to support our drafts instead. This is very grateful and wonderful, and we commend you for it. But what happened in the meantime? After the Commission supported our draft, did the party chairman give a bit of a grudge to certain members of the committee? You are now very critical of us and you are talking about the destruction of rural areas, even though I think you have been in the coalition for years, those who have consistently reduced the number of farms across Estonia. And when we talk about eight million cubic metres, we talk about it all year round. We are now talking about this period of May and June, how much is then cut into the forest. And that's where we're talking about a few ten thousand cubic metres. Like I said, I'm specifying these numbers, but you can't talk about eight million. Don't lie!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U469	Thank you. Good colleague! I suggest you think clearly and calmly before you open your mouth every time. I believe you can do these calculations. I repeat, I am well aware that eight million is a year's felling. I have met both organisations and foresters, and I can say that on average this number can still be divided into months. Yeah, it depends on the weather and the season, but it's not like there's 5,000 and 10,000 cubic metres in two months and three million will be taken from the forest next month. You can divide this eight million once more by 12, depending on the weather, and you will get this result. And that number is completely different. Secondly, there is no reason to discuss with you who is before, who is not. It doesn't matter now either. I repeat, the idea itself is good. We have also discussed this with the Minister for the Environment, otherwise the Committee on the Environment would not have supported this draft. I will continue to support this. But this bill, as a Commission waitress, has a duty to say this, there are very many and very important errors that may have come from ignorance or lack of ownership of the subject. But I think it is important to go over these issues here and discuss them calmly, what is bad and what is wrong. It is my duty to pass on to you what happened in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U470	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U471	Chairman! Good Commission waitress! I'm sure this is an important matter, but you also mentioned that the Ministry of the Environment is waiting for you and waiting for us to get out of the way. Is this the time of June 16th agreed with them? Will they be able to offer these reasons by then?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U472	Thank you. We have not given the deadline of 16 June. In any case, we have until autumn in the Riigikogu. I believe that the Ministry could deal with this issue, and the Estonian state as a whole could learn from RMK rather than write it in this form here in the Riigikogu on a date basis. Once again, I think that the Road Administration's approach, depending on the weather conditions, is a very simple and well understood example of the use of return tyres. There are years when snow is basically on the ground in June and is allowed to use studded tyres, and vice versa. Such a black, white, one-line legislative amendment can ultimately do more harm than good. Therefore, I really do not think that, in this simple form, this complex problem can be solved. The idea of this bill, I repeat, is sensible and good, but in this case, it's like an ax has come to catch a crane. This bill should certainly be polished and worked hard if we would like to move on with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U473	Mart Helme, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U474	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I will once again remind you of the way in which this day the cranes were caught with an axe, discussing the felling volumes and the years of the spruce. It was a real ax to catch a stork. Half the hall ran, with an axe in its hand, and screamed loudly, including you. As far as the destruction of rural areas is concerned, the honourable waitress, your party has been in government, and during that time Estonia has overlapd with abandoned houses and empty villages. So to blame us, EKRE, for destroying Estonia's rural territory is nonsense. And if you want, we'll give you a tour of the sawmills, and you'll see what huge piles of logs are waiting for sawing. Work can be planned. Also, consider the lives of tetres, savages and other birds and animals, which cannot be actually converted into euro. Now, my question is, did you vote for or against coming to this bill hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U475	Thank you. All the members of the Committee on the Environment voted in consensus, as I have already said, in favour of this draft so that it could reach this Chamber. I will gladly accept your invitation, and I hope that it will not remain words. After June 19, we go to the sawmill, where lumber has been collected for two or three months. Let's do this together, we've agreed on this, and I'm happy to look forward to it. As far as owls, hawks and ground-based canals are concerned, as I said, the Ministry of the Environment is planning a thorough examination, along with ornithologists, of whether this restriction is reasonable or not. When you go down in history and talk about the destruction of rural areas, someone from the IRL and also from Artur Talvik Free Party indicated that this point was actually the most painful item in the Forest Act for private forest owners and the private forest owners. By the way, even more painful than the point that we supported here with you a few hours ago, giving the Government of the Republic the right to restrict the area of the cutting bar, i.e. the area of clear cutting, to ensure the natural balance of the forest, if there is reason and reason to assume that the cutting volume may exceed the growth of the managed forest. So this is a very big concern for them. First of all, the years are different. Secondly, smaller forest owners will not be able to plan their work in the same way as RMK, which in reality is still, I stress, at that time limited only clear cutting, not other forest cleaning works. Perhaps once again: the adoption of this one-phrased law in this form could indeed have a very damaging effect in certain sectors. But I agree with you that is why I am saying this and congratulating you and I think we have a lot in common that there are really natural values that cannot be measured in euro. I think it is a good signal that EKRE as a whole is paying ever more attention to nature, the environment. I always felt that, according to you, there was no climate warming or any other environmental issues. That's why I said welcome to our boat, the environment, is more important than any other subject. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U476	Martin Helme, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U477	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good waitress! There really is no climate warming, the climate is changing. But it still does not make any sense to me, and it did not make any sense from the previous answer that, if you in the Commission supported this destruction of rural, forestry and private enterprise and the appalling ax of the stork, then here you are, somehow, ashamed of it. What do you mean, where did that spine go? It's not for nothing that they call "mild springs," that they're pink and without a spine. How, then, are you passionately supporting this bill in the Commission, but here you are destroying it? What's the change of heart that's hit you? Or did you just take poses there, just like you're taking poses here right now? What's going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U478	Thank you. I will repeat very briefly. I'm glad we're carrying this discussion here. Nothing's changed. The idea and the starting point are correct and the Committee on the Environment decided to support this draft. I believe that you, as a professional member of the Riigikogu, also today, know that the first reading is to open the subject. We also set the deadline for amendments to this draft, which I will immediately look up on 16 June at 4 p.m. I really believe that if you want to move forward with this draft, there is a great deal of additions to be made, a lot of work to do with it. And so this is how the Riigikogu goes, that at first reading there is a so-called bill, which can later be polished by the committee, members of the Riigikogu and various parties. Inevitably, making one law is not such that you wake up in the morning and the law is done in the evening. And I don't think that should be our goal either.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U479	Jaak Madison, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U480	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I suggest the same thing to you that before you open your mouth, you should think. If you're talking about cutting volumes, you're putting both the state forest and the private forest together, talking about eight million. And arithmetically it is impossible to divide by all months, because, as private forest owners have said, the main harvesting period is, however, in cold times, not in May and June. So don't talk about millions of cubic metres. However, it is much more interesting that a meeting of the Committee on the Environment took place on 16 May, and Delfi also made an article on the Commission's support for the draft. I quote: 'Vakra explained that the State Forest Management Centre has, for years, established a felling peace during the spring period, as a rule between 15 April and 15 June, when, for the sake of logging, the activity of cutting innovation in state forests is banned. 'For all forest owners to follow the rule, we wish to include a new wording in the law, which specifically states when and under what conditions logging is not permitted,' said Vakra. 'The reef is followed today by many private forest owners, but not all. It is therefore reasonable to establish this principle at the level of the law, and to that end we will give the Ministry until autumn to develop specific rules. ' Why are you a populist here, you say one thing, but a different story in the media?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U481	Thank you. First of all, I think you're having a pretty big mess with these numbers. There's nothing to do. We'll be happy to go over it again. I understand there are even millions of cubic metres in the kitchen for you. You're throwing these numbers here and there, and then it's no wonder if you're using 5,000 and 10,000 instead of millions. The size of the private forest is eight million cubic metres, and RMK has a total cutting volume of almost 12 million cubic metres. Let's remember that number! Next time you come to this remote control, you'll at least be more or less guided by the thousands, hundreds, or millions. We will repeat: in a private forest of eight and in a country of four million, i.e. twice as much in the country as in a private forest. As for my quote, I can read it again. You didn't tell me the ending was that Vakra said. That's right. I have said many times today that I am pleased that we are discussing this again here in the Riigikogu. All forest-related proposals that look to the future and help preserve it for future generations are welcome. I will read the end of this article you quoted: 'And to this end, we will give the Ministry until autumn to develop specific rules. 'Just as I said before, the cutting peace of RMK, which was also at the top of your quote, applies only to clear cutting, not to other cuttings. This is already an important substantive difference. And I think this bill actually needs an analysis of how it affects these different species. But why did the Committee on the Environment, including Rainer Vakra, unanimously support this draft? As you have read out the direction and the point is correct, otherwise RMK would not have established it either. It is now necessary to find a reasonable way to establish it in such a way that it does not hit all private forest owners as a heavy axe. I believe we can find it together. Just a happier and more optimistic mind, good friends!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U482	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U483	Thank you. I urge the Chairman of the Committee to read the draft explanatory memorandum first. It says that the forest can be moved at that time in exactly the same way as the State Forest Management Centre does. And that's the eight million you brought out yourself. So the fact that you're confused here, you don't know the real numbers, and you blame the others for it is pure populism and total incompetence. But that's my question. In my opinion, the rapporteur from the Commission should report on what was discussed in the Commission, what came to the conclusion, who said what, what the result is. Instead, we heard a total populist, fucking extreme political foam about one opposition party. Do you have any idea what assignment you came in on today's remote control to report?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U484	Ladies and gentlemen, please note that it is not good practice in this Chamber to use rude and obscene words. But now the waitress has the word. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U485	Thank you. Let's get back to the numbers, let's get them straight. It's true that I brought these numbers up. But your good colleague questioned them as if the entire volume of cutting in Estonia was eight million cubic metres. It's not like that. Let's talk about just so you know what we are restricting today: about four million cubic metres are cut by RMK and the remaining eight million are cut by private forest owners. Secondly, of course I know why I'm here. Thank you for this announcement. And third, I've, of course, read the explanatory statement. I'm also quoting your waitress so you can't make interesting marginal remarks again. Everything is recorded, and you can also come to the Committee on the Environment to hear it. Arno Sild said that clear cutting was primarily intended, but the draft would prohibit all logging, all timber exports during the period 15 April to 15 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-07_U486	Thank you. No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No, I don't. Then I won't open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 420. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 420 amendments, including 16 June at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, our sitting today is closed. Closure of the sitting at 22.12.
