ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! By decision No 106 of 8 June including the President of the Republic, Jaak Aab has been appointed Minister of State Administration since 12 June. Let's hear the oath of the Minister of Public Administration, Jaak Aab. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U3	Honourable Riigikogu! By decision No 107 of 12 June including the President of the Republic, Jüri Luik has been appointed Minister of Defence. Let's hear the oath of Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U5	Honourable Riigikogu! Siim Valmar Kiisler has been appointed Minister of the Environment by the President of the Republic's same decision No 107 of 12 June. Let's hear the oath of Minister of the Environment, Siim Valmar Kiisler. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U7	Honourable Riigikogu! By decision No 107 of 12 June, the President of the Republic appointed Toomas Tõniste as Minister of Finance. Now let us hear the oath of the Minister of Finance, Toomas Tõniste.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U8	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U9	Okay. The Government of the Republic can go to work. Power!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U10	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 18th working week of the V plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U11	Does anyone want to hand over any drafts or inquiries? There's no such wish. Incoming check, please! 91 members of the Riigikogu are present. Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! The Committee on Finance has requested that the time taken to make available the documents underlying the second reading of drafts 456, 457 and 458 be reduced by one day, i.e. until 6 p.m. on Tuesday. The Bureau was in a position to discuss this with 2 members in favour of the Committee on Monetary Affairs proposal and against 1. Since the Management Board of the Riigikogu did not reach consensus on this issue, I will exercise the right under § 16 (4) of the Rules of Procedure and put the matter to the vote of the Riigikogu in plenary. Hanno Pevkur, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Your request is perfectly understandable, but, as far as I know, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has not yet completed the final wording of these drafts. The new issue of credit taxation is still pending. Does the President of the Riigikogu really think that if the members of the Riigikogu receive such voluminous drafts concerning the introduction of new taxes and the same violation of the principle of budgetary balance at 6 p.m. on Tuesday night, they will be able to work through them in one night and to process them fruitfully from 2 p.m. on Wednesday? Here's another question. I will ask it right away, looking at the agenda that has been put before us. The same drafts that you read out have been put on the last item on the agenda. Could they not be moved to the first items on Wednesday so that they can be discussed after third readings?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U13	Was the back of the question in the form of a proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U14	If a proposal is needed, I shall formalise it in such a way that the draft budget of the basic law, the number of which is... In short, the debate on the 29th item could be held immediately after the third reading, and items 27 and 28 could be discussed after reading the basic budget law. Then we could move on to another agenda. This would give some opportunity to discuss these items normally, not in the hours of the night, as otherwise happens in this Chamber on Wednesday. Perhaps the first part of the question is, once again, over and over again, that we simply have too little time to examine the content of these drafts. The other part of the question is that if in any way we want to ensure that these drafts are properly dealt with during the day, the order of the items on the agenda could be changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U15	Got it. As far as the Commission's work is concerned, the Bureau has not intervened and we have not made any inquiries either. If the committees have felt that they need to bring you a proper document, an extra time, then the Bureau has discussed it and has usually given them extra time. We did not agree at the moment, so there will be a vote. However, the proposal on the agenda will then be dealt with separately. Okay, here's what we're Honourable Riigikogu... Rock Hard, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U16	Thank you. As my colleague, Hanno Pevkur, proposed the agenda...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U17	Do you want to argue?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U18	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U19	We'll get to that later.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U20	We'll catch up later. Thank you. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U21	Honourable Riigikogu, who is in favour of shortening the time of the draft Act amending the State Budget Act 456, the bill on the sweetened Drink Tax Act 457 and the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, the VAT Act and the Traffic Act 458 to make the documents on the basis of the second reading available to the members of the Riigikogu, so that the materials are made available by 18:00 on 13 June? Please take a stand and vote. There are 52 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal, 35 against, with no abstentions. The time for making documents available was shortened. Now let's go to the approval of the agenda. There is a proposal from Mr Pevkur that I repeat that the 29th item is 22. (I understand so), 27th item on agenda item 23 and 28th item 24. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U22	Thank you. The Social Democratic Party Group is not in favour of redeploying agenda items.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U23	Igor Gräzin, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U24	It is a good thing that the opposition is also given the floor when the coalition no longer wants to speak. But, well, better later than never. Thanks for noticing. Good for you! I actually wanted to ask you something like this. Now give me some advice, and with it, you will win again the love of this hall. Tell me what the opposition should do if he wants to get some more working time to figure it out. Most people just pushed this proposal through and said you're coming to the hall now and you don't need anything to read here, you've got the materials in your hands, vote either way or whatever, because you're no use anyway. That's what you just said. But please tell me what we should do. We're asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U25	First of all, Reverend Gräzin, you put words in my mouth that I haven't used. [[Gräzin's call.]] Secondly, this issue is not procedural in relation to the approval of the agenda. I'd be happy to share my thoughts with you as a colleague. Honourable... Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question concerns the points put on the agenda by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Last Thursday, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs elected a new chairman and vice-chairman. The first round was drawn, and during the second round of voting, a member of the central group left the voting session, after talking to the chairman of the central group at the door, returned to the room and voted. The chairman and vice-chairman of the committee were then elected. The Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu and the documents signed by you say that elections must also be secret during the elections of the Board of the Riigikogu. What should be the course of action now that such a violation of the Rules of Procedure has taken place? Are the election of the leadership of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the items put on this agenda even legal?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U27	Ladies and gentlemen, I am currently awaiting procedural questions about the agenda. We can address this issue separately. What does that have to do with the agenda? [[The excitement in the hall.]] Are you saying that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not have the right to present these items? Do you have a suggestion to delete them? What number is this point? Let's listen to Valdo Randpere, please! A procedural question concerning the approval of the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U28	I have two procedural questions. We have just voted to extend the possibility of submitting documents until 6:00 tomorrow. What if these documents don't come by 6:00?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U29	Then there won't be another reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U30	Do you have your word on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U31	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U32	Okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U33	And the second question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U34	I understood that Kalvi Tõvi was against our proposal to change the agenda. I want to know why. The only reason I'm going to find logically is because he thinks it's the kind of shit that's going to have to go under the cover of darkness, like turning fiscal policy on its head.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U35	This is not a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U36	I wanted to ask if there are any other good reasons why we really should discuss it between Wednesday and Thursday at midnight instead of doing it tomorrow afternoon.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U37	The good reason is that the people have chosen you here. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U38	This is where you and I will stumble, the cripple will lead the blind, and you and I will fall into the hole all the time. Now let's try to move on together. We are now tumbling here, but tell me whether procedural issues can only be on the agenda and whether the agenda issues are purely procedural. You only allow procedural-day questions. Explain this, then we'll make another step forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U39	I do not think that the adoption of the agenda is at all the right time to break the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. You could read the law yourself. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U40	Thank you. My question was, yes, that if the principle of electoral secrecy has been violated, the item number 5 on Tuesday and items 9 and 10 on Wednesday should be removed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U41	So, it has been proposed to remove item No 5 from the Tuesday agenda and item No 9 and item No 10 from the Wednesday agenda. Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U42	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, It's a shame we have to spend each other's time like this. I would like to remind Mr Aasa and others that in the committee this procedure was chaired by Jüri Adams, Vice-President of the Commission, who asked several times whether anyone had any complaints about the conduct of the elections. No claims were made.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U43	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U44	Thank you. The Social Democratic Party Group also accepts this proposal by Arto Asa to remove the three drafts tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs from the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U45	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U46	Please tell me if there can be such a thing that the political group will have a procedural position in this very Chamber. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I didn't know where it came from now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U47	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me be more specific. In the Commission, events developed rapidly and there was a great deal of confusion around the elections. What is your position as to whether leaving the voting ballot is a violation of the principle enshrined in the Home and Working Procedures Act or not? If there is, then there is nothing to vote on, then the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must re-elect the chairman and vice-chairman, and so far decisions are not legitimate. If this isn't a violation of this principle, then there's nothing to argue about. I ask your position as Chairman of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U49	Arto Aas, I promise you that your remarks will be discussed by the Bureau with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I do not know what else to say right now, because we are on the agenda and this is a slightly different subject. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U50	Thank you, good President of the Riigikogu. You didn't give your judgment. I proposed that these three items be put forward. But can I, in essence, discuss whether they should be taken forward or excluded from the agenda at all, because the Committee on Monetary Affairs has not yet stated its position, know your position on precisely that time? Then we would also be able to propose whether to leave agenda items 27, 28, 29 out of the agenda at all, or to move them forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U51	I think that this House will know the position of the Committee on Monetary Affairs when the drafts are being discussed in plenary, not earlier. [[Hanno Pevkur's interjection.]] I believe that, in the past, the MPs have been able to read the drafts in one night, so why should it be different this time? That's my personal assessment. But that wasn't a procedural question. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U52	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. This issue, which my colleague, Mr Aas, raised, is, of course, quite serious. If there really is confirmation that the principle of electoral secrecy has been violated or, even worse, that the free will of the MP has been affected in the elections, then obviously we cannot resolve this issue by voting in plenary. That is why I propose the following. We can, or rather you, good manager, can take the chairman's break. The entire Bureau will be present in the Chamber, the Bureau will be able to discuss this issue with the heads of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and then it will also be possible to offer the Chamber some sort of solution to the handling or non-working of these points. But once again: this is an issue that cannot be solved with just one vote, because if there is really a violation of the election procedure, then it is much more serious.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U53	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U54	Thank you, Mr President. In order to clarify the procedure, I inform you that the last five items on the Wednesday agenda were decided by the Commission last week and that technical details are being clarified. Mr Gräzin does not need to wait until 6:00 tomorrow; all documents are available in the EMS, both amendments and drafts. So the power to work, he can start right now. [[Interjection.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U55	Igor Gräzin, you have a procedural question, I ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U56	Yeah, humanly procedural. Look, I want to help you right now. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] The point is that I support the fact that the Riigikogu can do amazing things. Minister (at that time he was chairman of the committee) Under the leadership of Sester, the Republic of Estonia made commitments of billions to the ESM in 40 minutes. So there are all kinds of things possible here, you're right.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U57	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U58	On behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I will specify the previous statement by the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs that only technical formalisation is currently taking place. That's not entirely true. Tomorrow, the agenda of the Committee on Monetary Affairs will include amendments to the basic law of the state budget, which the Ministry of Finance is still preparing, as well as the wording of the new system of pawn tax. These are certainly not technical details. Let it be said for the sake of the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U59	Now I have a procedural question. Since the board member asked for a break, I feel obliged to take that break. I would be very pleased if Jüri Adams, who chaired the Thursday Commission meeting, could attend the Bureau meeting. He can't be there. A free man in a free country. Director's break is 10 minutes. We'll proceed at 3:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U60	Honourable Riigikogu, the chairman's break is over. The Bureau, together with the Head of the Secretariat of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, met and clarified the matter. On the unanimous decision of the board, I repeat to you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, as the election of the leaders of the committees may continue to take place This is our unanimous message. [[Laughter and excitement in the hall.]] Attention! Secondly, I understand the question of Arto Asa, but I must read to you a section document, approved on 10 February 2011 and numbered 21. This is the decision of the Riigikogu Board. The title of this document is 'Rule of Procedure for the election of the Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu Committee' and here is such a final provision: 'If a member of the committee considers that, when voting, determining the results of voting or drawing lots, the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act was violated, he may protest to the President until the election result is announced. The protest shall be resolved by the Commission without delay. ' According to the Commission's secretariat, Jüri Adams, who led the Commission's work, asked whether there were protests, and no protests were brought. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the 18th working week agenda for the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. [[Interjections.]] I interrupt the vote. The motion for redeployment of agenda items, made by MP Pevkur, was protested by MP Hard. Yeah, we're voting in a premeditated form. (Interjection: "It's so hard. It's so hard. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the 18th working week agenda for the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 50 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, 34 against and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U61	Our first item on the agenda is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarseper, Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõmme, Artur Talvik and Ain Lutsepse into the manipulations of administrative reform in order to give power parties a better position. That should be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, who is also in the hall. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U62	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Members of the Free Party Group have certainly submitted more than 15 questions about the various aspects of the administrative reform over the past six months; the number should be approaching 20 already. Today's inquiry is one such summary request. Why is it presented to the Prime Minister? I confess honestly if the Prime Minister listens! just that we have often submitted inquiries to the Prime Minister because we have not been satisfied with the replies of the Minister of Public Administration or with his actions more generally. It is quite symbolic that these questions will be answered today when the new Minister of Public Administration took the oath of office in front of us. Let's hope for the best. Our Minister Korb's actions were not satisfied, I must confess. To be honest, Prime Minister, you could not be satisfied with this either, especially when you look at what the leading politicians of the Central Party did last summer when they campaigned for the elections in Mail, Reps. We, too, have been in very many different municipalities in Estonia lately. We have heard many memories of it and received many feedback on the promises made at that time. These promises also sounded here on 15 September in the debate on a crucial national issue, when Mailis Reps pointed to the one-sidedness of the 5,000-person border and the method of whipping and carrot and did not say more or less than that as President he would not have declared such an administrative reform law and the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu should be proposed to amend it. When the Centre Party became a government, every attempt was made to lift the bottlenecks in the administrative reform and to give the government more opportunities to make exceptions. Not only have we asked you a lot of questions, but we have also tabled two drafts to ensure that the government has more room for exceptions, but the government coalition has rejected them. We are very sorry about all this because the pursuit of the 5000 population criteria in those places where people do not exist and where geographically illogical mergers occur has caused one of the most serious losses that has been caused to Estonian administrative organisation and local democracy in recent times. But I understand the government has time and can still make those decisions. You didn't do it last week. I welcome the fact that the new Minister for Public Administration will then be able to come and say his views. Maybe something's getting better. In our inquiry, we have generalised these various handwritings, which have been linked to the tendency that, at least rhetorically, solutions have so far been proposed that have been against small municipalities and in favour of coercion. In other words, if local governments have joined and done everything right, but they lack a few dozen people out of the 5000 population criteria, like Kanepis, Kõlles, Valgjärv and there are still examples of them, the view has been taken that an additional forced merger must be carried out. Another example. The municipality has not joined the others, but it fulfils all the criteria well, except for the same number of inhabitants (this is now the example of Luunja). Then decisions tend to come again, or at least so far, they are allowed to take a local government position to the detriment. Jne, et cetera. For those who have met all the criteria, additional compulsory mergers are also foreseen. These cases we have described everything in the introduction to the inquiry. We hope that the Prime Minister himself will refer questions and give us answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U63	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U64	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you for your questioning! I would like to begin by pointing out three things that I want to answer before dealing with the question. I disagree with two things at all, and I fully agree with one. I disagree with what you said about Mikhail Korb. I don't agree at all. I think Mikhail Korb was a very strong minister of public administration, a very substantive minister, a listening minister, a noticeable minister, a common minister. Mikhail Korb was certainly in favour of strengthening local governments as a minister. Mikhail Korb was a minister who was certainly in favour of better and more operational access to services for local residents. The second thing you said was that the current government has not lost the bottlenecks that exist with regard to local governments. He's lost it. We were extremely critical in the opposition about the revenue base and the tasks of the local governments. The government has given the municipalities a return to the income base in the form of a percentage of personal income tax and has given them additional tasks, including funding. However, I fully agree with you that I will, of course, refer to your questions before I begin to answer. But I will certainly defend and protect my thoughts about Mikhail Korb, as well as his work. I think he took over the reform of the municipalities at a very difficult moment, but he also went on with the reform of the state. It is certainly in the interests of the whole of Estonia and of all our political parties that local governments be as capable as possible and be able to offer the best possible services to residents. The Administrative Reform Act adopted in the Riigikogu obliged the government to submit, by 15 February, proposals for accession to all those municipalities that did not meet the minimum requirement for the number of residents required by the Act at the beginning of the year. I would stress that this obligation was due to the law. For all municipalities where the population was less than or equal to 5 000 inhabitants, the law gave rise to an obligation for the government to propose. I'm about to get to the other side of the law. This also applies to municipalities which, following the merger initiated by the councils, remain municipalities with fewer than 5000 inhabitants and where the government did not apply the exceptions granted by law, as was the case for the smaller maritime islands, for example. The Supreme Court has confirmed in its judgment that there is no discretion on the part of the government as to whether or not to propose to local governments that do not meet the minimum number of residents laid down in the Act. I would stress that this is a proposal. The minimum size criterion of the municipality is binding on the Government of the Republic when the proceedings are initiated, but it is not binding in the final decision. The Administrative Reform Act also lays down the conditions under which a government may leave the administrative territorial organisation of a municipality which does not meet the minimum size criterion unchanged. The Government of the Republic has the opportunity to consider the substance now, after the feedback received from the local governments. The government must decide, on the basis of the views and objections presented, which proposals it proposes to implement and whether or not to implement in full or in part. The presentation of the proposals was preceded by analyses, meetings and in-depth discussions in regional committees composed of local people, experts and county elders. There was certainly no party policy behind the recommendations made to the government of these committees. I would also stress this: there was certainly no party policy behind the recommendations made to the government of these committees. This political rhetoric does not correspond to reality. As far as the results of the survey are concerned, they were quite similar in very many regions. It is difficult to highlight something particularly striking in some municipalities or isolated areas. When considering its decision, the government will take into account the results of the survey alongside all other important aspects. Under the law, at least ten aspects must be analysed for each merger: historical justification, impact on the living conditions of the population, people's sense of cohesion, impact on the quality of public service provision, impact on administrative capacity, impact on demographic situation, impact on the organisation of transport and communication, impact on the business environment, impact on the educational situation and the organisational functioning of the unitary service area of the municipality. The first question: 'What is the government's political position when it comes to granting exceptions just because the government puts the goal and content of the reform at the forefront and the idea of creating logically interoperable municipalities or the criterion of 5000 inhabitants? ' Of course, the goal is to create strong and interoperable municipalities. At the same time, account must also be taken of the need to meet the minimum criterion of 5000 inhabitants resulting from the Administrative Reform Act, which is intended to meet the substantive objectives of the reform and which is an exceptional but possible option in the case of a deliberate decision. The criterion is based on the objectives of the reform, which are inextricably linked to the number of inhabitants, since it is the residents who need to be guaranteed access to services. The experts estimate that 5000 inhabitants are the least, enabling local authorities to organise statutory services in an efficient and sustainable manner and to develop the local government. If the municipality has at least 5000 inhabitants, then it is, I emphasize, in most cases possible to ensure specialization and achieve sufficient competence. The second question: 'What right and why does the Government of the Republic use the possibility of coercion for the consolidation of party power in the new interconnecting municipalities? If this is not the case in your opinion, what are the reasons for the great municipality of Ida-Virumaa and the city of Keila, Keila rural municipality, City of Paldiski and Vasalemma (inquiring, where is Padise? Okay, I haven't asked a question. J.R.) forced merger scheme? " The government makes its decisions on the merger of local governments on the basis of the interests of the Estonian state and Estonian local governments, but the quality and availability of services provided to residents are most important. The government proposed the merger of eight municipalities in Ida-Virumaa, because Illuka and the already merged Mäetaguse, Iisaku, Alajõe and Tudulinna rural municipalities formed, as of 1 January 2017, with 5040 inhabitants, i.e. a municipality with a narrowly respected minimum size criterion, while larger and stronger self-government is formed if more municipalities are involved. That was a reason at the time. The government has received feedback from the local authorities on the proposals submitted, together with an assessment by the Regional Commission of the justification of the arguments put forward by the local authorities. The municipalities pointed out that the merger does not create a single municipality that takes account of the logical links between the settlement system and the new local authority does not have a centre, and that these regions are very different in nature and in terms of development priorities. When seriously considering these pros and cons, the government will make its decision to continue the merger of local governments in the near future. Now I'm talking about Keila City. The purpose of the proposed accession to the City of Keila is to establish a link between the centre and the hinterland in order to ensure that the inhabitants of the region also have the right to participate in decisions concerning their service centre and in the design of services and democracy. Once again, municipalities and the Regional Commission have made their views known. The municipalities expressed the view that the municipalities to be merged did not have a common share and that the economic and administrative capacity would be reduced if the merger took place. The government will decide to continue the merger in the near future. Question 3: 'How do you react in cases where the results of the referendum and the decisions of the councils are against the coercion proposed by the government? What compelling arguments would convince you to give up the idea of coercion? " When considering their decisions, the government takes into account the results of the poll and the views of the councils along with all the other important aspects that I have already pointed out. Let us bear in mind that, since the regions are different, different arguments will certainly be taken into account in this decision. Question 4: "The government has until 15 July to examine the grounds and requests made by the municipalities and to take a decision. What is the government's ability to read and interpret these documents thoroughly before making decisions? (The earlier reasons of the government have not led us to believe that these documents will be dealt with in depth. By the way, a copy of the forced merger of Elva rural municipality has been sent to different municipalities! )' There is no reason to doubt that the Ministry of Finance is serious about this issue, but the entire government, which is preparing decisions together with the regional committees, is working ahead, I say, very seriously and with sufficient thoroughness. Members of the government have also been thoroughly familiar with the materials presented. It is of course necessary to apologise for the errors that remain on the record, and that is what I am doing here. Question 5: "What is the confusion about the compulsory merger of rural municipalities and the ensuing litigation in connection with the elections in the autumn? What are you doing to prevent this mess? " The mergers initiated by the government do not in themselves create any litigation. To do so, someone needs to feel hurt and go to court to protect their interests. Estonia is the rule of law. In order to protect your rights, you can go to court if necessary and this is natural. We hope, however, that there are few such cases and that the judicial system will be able to deal with them quickly enough so that decisions in one direction or another do not interfere with the holding of elections to new and capable local councils in the autumn. Question 6: 'Where, when and between whom it was agreed that the administrative reform law adopted last year would not be amended, no matter how bad the consequences are? Is it true that because of this agreement, no politician of the Central Party who knew the local governments of Estonia was prepared to accept the Minister of State Administration and therefore you presented Mikhail Korb as minister? ' As a new government union, it was agreed that very strong and substantive changes would be made to the administrative reform. That was the wish of all three partners. I would say that the strongest and most substantial desire was to agree on the tasks of the municipalities. If we specify the tasks at the national level and at the municipal level, then we must provide the municipalities with financial coverage so that they can carry out these tasks and tasks. There is certainly a desire to give certain national tasks and responsibilities to municipalities. The principle of this government coalition has been that the relationship between a municipality and a state is not a relationship between a superior and a subordinate, but a municipality and a state are partners. Secondly, it is important to listen to the proposals of the Cooperation Council of the Municipalities, which, you can say, they have already done since 2009: the revenue base needs to be increased, school lunch support needs to be increased, swimming support needs to be increased. We increase the municipal income base by 90 million, or we restore it, we increase it much more, but we restore the share of the income base that was taken away in 2009 by reducing personal income tax. Secondly, the swimming lesson I've already pointed out is going to be added one million more. This has been proposed by the Municipal Associations Cooperation Council. The school lunch allowance is currently 78 euro cents. For years, it has been proposed by the local governments that it needs to be increased, because these cents do not come out. This support is now EUR 1. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U65	Questions for the Prime Minister. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U66	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! It was sad to hear the political rhetoric at the beginning of the answer. The Prime Minister says that everything comes from the law, he says that the government has no discretion because everything comes from the law. Sorry, in winter it was the Free Party that came up on behalf of the Riigikogu, the legislator, with proposals on how to make the government's activities more flexible during the administrative reform, precisely by making distinctions. Because of party politics, it was said no. Coalition members have spread the word that the second phase of the administrative reform is planned, with a minimum criterion of 20000 inhabitants per municipality. When will you come to this hall with this plan so that you will not be able to say again that the Riigikogu is evil and will not allow the government to act?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U67	Thank you. I have never said that the Riigikogu is bad. On the contrary, the Riigikogu is honorable; the Riigikogu has chosen those who have been elected by the highest Estonian power, or the Estonian people. I say this: even with regard to the aspect of separation of powers, I am still based on the fact that Estonia is a parliamentary state. I don't think you think the Riigikogu is bad either. The Riigikogu is honorable. Now, about the political rhetoric you were talking about. I was wondering, at first, whether you were talking about Mr Herkel's political rhetoric, which he used to introduce the question here, or about my rhetoric, and I didn't quite understand. But you said that the government is somehow rigidly bound by this law. The truth is that in the sense of this law, the government can only rely on one thing. As I said, if the population of the municipality is even one less than 5000, the government must make a proposal. I would stress that the proposal. I would like to stress once again that the proposal. In the final decision, the government has a discretion. Whether the decision is based on an area-based criterion or on the ten criteria that I have read out and that the services of local governments must meet, that discretion is vested in the government. I don't think I'm saying wrong when I say it's a topic that the government has discussed most seriously in the last three or four weeks. Several of these consultations have taken place, it is necessary to examine the analyses and also to visit and discuss them personally. Therefore, the government has not yet made a final decision, because we do not consider it right to rush here. This is a very fundamental decision on restructuring. You said you made your proposal in winter. Yes, in the winter of 2017, you really proposed, but you should also say in the second half of this sentence that by 31 December 2016, if I may say so, this process had already worked according to certain rules. There is a good principle that halfway rules are not changed. This would have put the majority of the municipalities that had made their decisions in the course of voluntary accession in a completely different situation. So I don't think this complaint is justified. Thirdly, I honestly say, Honourable Member of the Riigikogu, Külliki Kübarsepp, that you are the first person from whom I hear about this second stage and about 20,000 inhabitants. I say, looking at you: you are the first member of the Riigikogu, the first top politician in Estonia in 2017, at the beginning of the summer, who will say such a thing. I have not heard the 20,000 borders mentioned in any of the meetings or in any of the corridor conversations. I think your question was rhetorical, it is not the view of the Free Party that there must be 20000 inhabitants in all municipalities in the second phase of the reform. No, that intention has not been discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U68	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U69	Thank you. Prime Minister! You certainly had the opportunity to resolve these coercive matters differently, and there were no limits, rather an unwillingness. However, when I listen to this story, I wonder whether it was you or another Jüri Ratas who supported the election campaign last summer in Mailis Reps, from which the message came very strongly that the Centre Party was reviewing the administrative reform law. If you make exceptions, if you give more flexibility, I commend you. But all this is procedurally done to the municipalities, still very painful, they have to prove that they are not camels.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U70	Thank you for this serious question. Then please state the section, the law, the paragraph and the point in which the government could have looked away from the 5000 criteria. It doesn't exist. The government had to, I would stress, make proposals. As for example, Häädemeeste has been offered to join Saarde rural municipality in Pärnumaa. Indeed, the Häädemeeste have 4982 people, i.e. 18 people less than 5,000. We know that Saarde is one of two Estonian municipalities, who goes under this so-called 900 square kilometers principle. But it was the government's responsibility to propose. Once again, this is a proposal. Indeed, you also gave me some air in this honourable Riigikogu speech chair, saying that yes, these exceptions can still be made by the government. You're right. In the case of prudent decisions, this can be done. You ask me if I was the Jüri Ratas who helped Mailis Reps last year to become President of the Republic of Estonia. Yeah, I was. I visited several municipalities and counties of Estonia with him, such as Tartu County, Hiiumaa, Saaremaa and some municipalities of Harjumaa. Been busy, and Mail was very well received. I don't think you asked me that, of course. You asked more about the words of Mailis Reps that he would not declare this law if he were the President of the Republic of Estonia. Mailis Reps is not the President of the Republic of Estonia, Kersti Kaljulaid is the President of the Republic of Estonia. Mailis Reps is a busy and good Estonian mother, member of the government, Minister of Education and Science. It is true that he has been critical of the merger of local governments. This was also the case with the Centre Party in opposition. There were three main reasons for this. First, funding. Let's get this thing down to the details. In 2009, when there was an economic crisis in Estonia, the same hall decided that we would reduce the percentage of personal income tax that would go into the local governments' income base. Given your experience in politics, I think you know better than that. I think it was 11.93 at the time, and it was reduced to 11.4. The revenue base was reduced by 0.53% and should be looked at in the explanatory memorandum, which was then exactly reduced. Two things were said that municipalities no longer have to deal with them, one was youth sport, the other was the age of children in kindergartens, starting from which age a day-care centre should be provided. I think it didn't change the substance of life in local governments a bit. Municipalities contributed to youth sport; they contributed further to the creation of kindergarten places. Honorable Member of the Riigikogu, Mr Herkel! I have heard that if this principle of the percentage of personal income tax was set as a financing model for municipalities, there was such an unwritten agreement that if the fiscal policy of the country, fiscal policy, is doing well, then this percentage should rise in parallel. After the percentage of personal income tax was changed and, indeed, the equalisation fund was reduced, it began to disperse like the letter "V." The only option was to make it parallel again and restore the percentage of personal income tax. It is true that the size of the fine-tuning fund should also be restored. It's summer 2017, but it hasn't been done yet. On 23 November 2016, 56 members of the Riigikogu decided to do this, restore the percentage of personal income tax in the following three years, give 90 million, à 30 million per year. It used to be 450 million Estonian kroons or a little more, but as far as I know, that cut was about 440 million Estonian kroons when we talk about personal income tax. I want to say that this was definitely the message of Mailis Reps, but also of me and the entire Central Party when we were in opposition. The second message was that when we give tasks, we also have to provide funding. If we say that local authorities have to deal with supporters working at school, support specialists, then the government must support them. This coalition has said that we will see 6 million for that. If we say that 78 euro cents of school lunch grant really does not go on (even the municipal associations have said so), but at the same time we say that may the municipalities solve this school lunch problem, then of course this can be done. The second option is that the government and the government sector will also address this issue financially and raise its support for one euro, as the local government associations have requested. These are just a few examples. Yeah, we were critical of money and tasks. In both cases, I believe that the situation has improved with this reform, especially for the population, but also for the municipalities, because the municipalities are still the closest to the population. Thirdly, the granting of exceptions or flexibility of this substantive principle was at issue in the coalition negotiations. The government hasn't made its final decision yet. Like I said, it's July 15th. We are analysing this now, and part of this analysis really also provides for a certain number of exceptions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U71	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You mentioned that the government was guided by many analyses, expert opinions and the wishes of the local people when making decisions on forced integration. What were these analyses, and who were the experts who supported the formation of Alutaguse's major municipality, or the merger of eight rural municipalities? I have managed to see only the opposition of the local and local authorities, as well as the opinion of a regional expert, which does not support this accession either. Would you explain who has prepared these analyses and opinions that this accession is very good for the region?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U73	Thank you. Really, that decision was made. Consider the example of Alutaguse and Ida-Virumaa. Who made that decision? It was made by the Government of the Republic, prepared by the Ministry of Finance. It was based on the principle of 5000 inhabitants, be it toila or Illuka. Those were the arguments. A proposal has been made. What will happen in Alutaguse, Illuka and Toila by 15 July at the latest? After all, you, the Free Party, have raised this issue constructively in this Riigikogu several times, I would say. After all, the opinion of the residents has been clarified, the opinion of the Commission has been clarified. So how do I say it? We take all these opinions very seriously. Saarde is one (as I said) and Alutaguse is the other of two municipalities with a territory of over 900 square kilometres. We are now analysing this issue as one aspect. You know, also over Alutaguse or the so-called Great Viru government, as you have dealt with it, I think we all understand what we are talking about right now. I can't say it's like it's off the table. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U74	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U75	Good Chairman! Good Prime Minister! There's been a discussion of all sorts of options from this remote control, and there's been all sorts of comments. But I have a specific question: what about the town of Loksa with this discretion? The town of Loksa is not very capable, it has borrowed itself relatively badly, and so on, but I hear they're still trying to give him a special status and leave him unconnected. Is that true or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U76	Fortunately, it is not the case in Estonia that one person, who is the Prime Minister, decides in the government. The government is a collegial body with 15 people, and it costs 15 people to think about it. Yes, Loksa and Kuusalu are also on the table. What you have pointed out about the city of Loksa, not the best financial capacity, is indeed said in the analysis. At the same time, there is always a question of how much Loksa and Kuusalu really have to do with each other. I think that since there are regional differences on the map of Estonia, we can look at certain urban settlements from a different angle. But it is now really proposed that Loksa and Kuusalu should join, that they should join. When will the decision be made? I said here on several occasions about Keila that the decision will be taken in the near future. But yes, you are right, one argument is really that the financial and fiscal situation of these two municipalities is very different.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U77	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! You have spoken very eagerly about the fact that the municipal income base has now been restored or will be restored by increasing the share of personal income tax. But you should be aware of the information that the best balance between regional differences is the Equalisation Fund in order to level out the various tax receipts that have been objectively generated in the economic space. After all, you are not making any mention of the fact that the country, too, has gained a number of responsibilities since the economic crisis came to an end. Comparing one to one and saying that the state's revenue has increased as if and that the local government's revenue is not, is not quite adequate. But why didn't the Minister who had already resigned and you just start with a fine-tuning fund that, given the regional principle, would have made the most sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U79	Thank you. I will stick to the view that the local governments have been harmed over the last seven or eight years because, before the government took up its job, it was not put on the table to restore the revenue base. I agree with what you said about the Equalisation Fund. This is an important regional financial dimension. Mikhail Korb has proposed a new financing model to which the Equalisation Fund has been incorporated. What this model is going to be under the direction of Jack Aabi shows, I think, in the near future. But Mikhail Korb certainly accounted for his work, including its so-called extra money or its 90 million aspects, as well as the fine-tuning fund. You can't say he didn't count on it. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U80	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Administrative-territorial reform and 5000-percent reform is like a whip and a cookie: if you join voluntarily, you get a carrot if you don't join, then we force it. This, however, leads to illogical mergers. The Free Party has also raised the issue of the right to self-determination of villages. On several occasions, villages would have liked to join in a slightly different direction, considering their logical attraction center, but then again the limit of 5,000 inhabitants, whether or not it has been met. After all, the reform is being carried out so that people are better equipped to have better access to services, etc. Inevitably, there is a feeling that people's opinions do not really matter and are not taken into account. What is your recommendation to those villagers who feel that the government does not take their opinion into account? They're asking why we're doing this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U82	Thank you for this question. The very first suggestion for myself and for the government is to visit these villages. I've done it, too. For example, next to the city of Pärnu, there is Sauga municipality, where there are four or five villages wishing to join in another direction, towards the city of Pärnu. It is not quite the case that the opinion of the residents is not taken into account. Actually, it was a chance in the villages. This required the approval of the municipality from which they leave and the municipality to which they are going. This was actually still the case this year, I hope that I will not be wrong until mid-April. When will the village aspect be a new solution? From 1 January onwards. In this sense, a new solution is that it will be a new approach when villages collect citizens' signatures and turn to the Government of the Republic through councils and the Government of the Republic has discretion. This Decision shall enter into force on 1 January 2018. That's what I personally have said to a lot of people when I've been seeing them. There were dozens of people in Sauga, if not more than a hundred people. In my opinion, these people have understood this problem in most of them. At present, this is the framework. The village aspect may not have been best written into this law, and this issue must certainly be re-examined. On the other hand, we have to take into account that if three or four municipalities join, but at one point a village, which here deny, often a village with a very large population, leaves this municipality, the foundations of the agreement that were negotiated at the time of accession, even if it was a voluntary accession, will be greatly changed. But yes, the village aspect will certainly come under a better approach and this option will come from 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U83	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U84	Thank you, Chairman. Good Prime Minister, thank you for the bouquet of substantive answers. But I will ask the question of a good colleague, Monika Haukanõmme. In fact, the situation will change with the amendment of the COKS and other laws this Wednesday. The Council's decisions are now taken by a qualified majority, which represents two thirds of its members, but a further 51% is needed after this change. It's a very important thing. This was not an option at all in 2009. Here we need to find a middle ground between the rights of the municipality and the rights of the villages. I'll ask your comment on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U85	The status quo must be based on the fact that villagers also participate in municipal elections and the highest local government level is the council. That's clear. What I said to the question of Monika Haukanõmme is that maybe the villages have been left in the background a little, or this regulation is not enough, is true. But I still think when we talk about the future, I can't imagine it, so I can start to decide on a village basis, bypassing councils. Then the question arises as to what is the point in the municipal elections. But I think that if the villages were to get a stronger picture, and if the government gets a margin of discretion when the residents propose it, then it's not bad. The government will certainly make these deliberate decisions by meeting the representatives of the villages before, but also, of course, the members of the council.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U86	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! The entire administrative reform has nevertheless been based on one principle of the emergence of municipalities with 5 000 inhabitants. On the basis of this number, funding has been proposed and all the tasks that the municipality, which emerges from the administrative reform, has to cope with. The government has now created a municipality with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants by forced merger. We also asked the Chancellor of Justice whether the government was obliged to make distinctions in the financial framework so that the small government could handle all its tasks. He's got to have a difference in funding. Do you confirm that all of the following laws on financing and tasks also follow the recommendations of the Chancellor of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U88	Thank you. I, too, have read the recommendations of the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice said, for example, that in the case of Luunja, a distinction could be considered, as the number of inhabitants there is increasing. This is certainly an important message to the government. How the government finally decides is difficult to say at the moment. But what I want to say is that if these exceptions are granted, I do not think they can be based on the fact that we are going to treat them in any way separately when drawing up the budget or when financing. I can't imagine it. So what do we do? If there are 3,500 inhabitants, do we make one financing model, if there are 4,000 inhabitants, do another model, and if there are 5,000 inhabitants, do the third? I think I've been using Mikhail Korb's name for the tenth time here, but I know that from a small government to, say, county center, he's done his funding model. It is very difficult for me to say today what it will be like today, because the Minister has changed. Let's give Jack Aab some time to set the pace. So I wouldn't dare go to the final financing model here in the Riigikogu Chair today. I want the new minister to take a look at it. We've discussed it twice in the office, first at the winter seminar, when we gave input, and the second time was now only recently. But since it was known that the minister would change, Mikhail's request was that we leave it to the next minister to decide once and for all.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U89	No further questions for the Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Arthur Talvik, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U90	Good Chairman! Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The Free Party has followed the process of administrative reform with a so-called 'big eye'. The absurdities we have found are still surprisingly numerous. In some ways, it may have been prepared, but regrettably, the new government has not been able to correct the previous government's so-called screw-up. As a result, Estonia's map is becoming one of the odd images, and many people conclude that political land-sharing is taking place, which is, as we have repeatedly said, the so-called "Gerrymandering" principle, which means that power parties are making the right electoral circles for themselves to achieve so much better election results. Inara Luigas shakes her head. Yes, we also know that these strange images are often created on the map of Estonia because of the so-called local tantrum and the resistance of the local kings, but this is precisely where the government could have looked from the local people's perspective at what the geographical map could be. We have been very upset by the crowd polling of people, which, in most cases, is not taken into account in the case of voluntary accession or compulsory annexation. Again, people's ability to express their opinions is further reduced. I'll come back to the map for a second. Interestingly, the new leader of a political party in the government coalition has very strongly criticised the same thing, that this map has become very bad and that the administrative reform has not worked out at all, but now the Prime Minister says that there is nothing wrong with this administrative reform. We need to be ready for the elections to be held in the autumn and for the proper confusion in this regard due to the administrative reform, until then, that perhaps in some areas the elections will not be organised. Let's see how this big mess gets over. But once again, it's gonna ruin the locals the most. There are certainly positive things. In general, the Free Party is in favour of larger municipalities or local authorities. But we hoped that the new government would pay attention to strengthening the mechanism for saying the word of local communities, whatever it is. What is currently going on with the administrative reform is the main subject of criticism by the Estonian people. Power moves beyond people and it is not a question of moving further physically, but of people not being able to participate in the affairs of their home country to the extent that it should be possible to do so in a normal democratic country. Finally, I will come to the questions and answers. In my opinion, this example of Loksa, where the Prime Minister turned very quickly... I'll take three more minutes just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U91	Just in case, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U92	I pointed out that Loksa is small and has little financial capacity and cannot cope on its own. It makes sense to add him to Kuusalu, they have historically belonged to a virtually single parish. The Prime Minister replied to this, at least I interpret it so that Loksa cannot be added to Kuusalu because Loksa's financial situation is bad. But we know that Loksa is led by the longtime and honorable middle party Värner Lootsmann. He will fight for his little kingdom to the end. I would like to thank the Prime Minister once again for his answers and I would like to have the strength to improve the absurdities of administrative reform, as much as there is any opportunity to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U93	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U94	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Mr. Prime Minister! This round of questions and answers was one such pingpong, where there was a number of misconceptions and, I must admit, a little bit of hope. There could have been more hope. But I come here as a remote optimist to give you more hope and courage to make exceptions, whether it be Alutaguse or the municipalities around Kanep, where the 5000 criteria are barely met, an analogous example is also taken from Häädemeeste in Pärnumaa and from many other parts of the world. There are also examples where the municipality has done well, such as Luunja. If he was coerced with the city of Tartu, this community would hardly be represented on the council. Believe me, the topics we have brought before the Riigikogu by asking questions to you or to the former Minister of State Administration, Mikhail Korb, have not been taken from the air. These are serious issues, and there are serious problems back there. Yeah, sometimes these things can be debatable, but we've seen in their case that the government is making a mistake. A few marginal notes. You love to talk, yes, very much about this revenue base, where the solution is still coming. As the money has not ended in the Republic of Estonia, the Central Party government seems to have understood that it needs to be brought there. It's good for local governments to get money. But I am drawing attention here to the audit of the National Audit Office, which shows that this is not just about this percentage, but about the fact that there are municipalities in Estonia where the majority of the population is of retirement age, and there are municipalities in Estonia where there is a labour force population, and the chances of managing these municipalities will be quite different in the coming years. So the magnitude of this percentage alone will certainly not solve these problems. Now, about the question of whether or not to change the law. I think when we brought this opportunity to you on a tray, we didn't do it too late. The government could have made reasonable exceptions faster instead of playing pingpong and correspondence with the municipalities. Unfortunately, you didn't listen. It is to be hoped that at the last moment you will make these exceptions. But the laws, Mr Prime Minister, are, among other things, so that an effective coalition can change them if necessary. Our main argument is that the mergers of local governments are based on the manipulations of power parties. I understand you don't want to agree with this. But it is. We've been getting feedback from here, from there, and from the third place, and I can tell it looks like this. If you do not want to agree with me on anything else, you must agree that the expansion of local governments alone will benefit the major parties. Among other things, party power and control over local governments are one of the ideas that has unfortunately been sending this administrative-territorial reform from the outset. Its victims, among other things, are now also these unhappy villages. We have raised this issue several times here, too. There is the autonomy of the municipality and all these beautiful words to it. But look, it seems to me that if local governments are independent and strong, they will not make decisions that are against the will of local communities, then they will allow villages to move in their natural attractions as well. But if the municipalities themselves are vulnerable and this reform has made them so, because these 5000 inhabitants must be found anywhere, even from Latvia, then the municipality does not have much freedom in what way to meet the villages and let them go when the attraction is different. Everyone is dealing with this unfortunate 5000 criteria, and there's this kind of a mundane mentality. The slave also treats the other slave relatively viciously, unfortunately. In the end, this questioning thing. We could agree on this in Estonia: we are not fooling our people by doing surveys that we do not take into account at all. In this respect, I will once again get back to the example of Alutaguse. This may be the most unprecedented, but there are still examples where the will of the local people is very clearly presented. I hope the Government of the Republic will take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U95	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U96	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The end of the season is at hand and, frankly, it is tiring to listen to the way I politely say rhetoric, which is causing rhetoric again. I'd like to hear something clear, good and bright. We have to admit that we no longer have an open-card dialogue here, but political rhetoric really does sound here. When Prime Minister Jüri Ratas took office, the idealistic Free Party Group, I can say, had faith in him and we had hope. The question now is whether local governments can feel the love of their country through Jüri Ratas. I'm gonna have big question marks here. Why? With the Administrative Reform Act, which is in fact the Administrative Territorial Reform Act, municipalities have been dealt with in a single rod, in a uniform manner. This uniformity, which is reflected in the 5000 criteria, was also heard by the Prime Minister today when he spoke about the redistribution of the municipal income base. Perhaps there is an obligation to support swimming pools, to organise swimming courses, etc., and now we are giving more money. But this time is, good prime minister, around. We cannot take municipalities in the same way already because the population of municipalities is very different and the services that are needed are very different. Therefore, it would really be time for the government to find a new way in which the redistribution of public money would go in the direction that the municipalities would be able to earn more money themselves. I mean, by serving, that they have the readiness and opportunity to create revenue opportunities that are tailored to the needs of the municipality and its residents. At the moment, it seems that the local government is being taken as a one-to-one extension of the state's arm, but it is not. Local self-government is a community representative and therefore the state would need and be fair to offer this solution. There are quite a few suggestions and comments here, but I will pay attention to another keyword. It's a will. Do we have the will to meet the residents or not? The amendments proposed by the Free Party in winter were made with the knowledge that the voluntary accession ended on 31 December 2016. Our amendments were on the table so that more freedom could be given to the government for compulsory integration. But as we felt then and felt when we listened to the answers today: there is no willingness to accept help. That is why I am saying that it is simply a party policy, not a search for reasonable solutions, even at government level. So, good Prime Minister, I expect and hope that you will use the weeks remaining until 15 July, when you will be able to make final decisions on local governments, sensibly and wisely, that you will not act rashly, but, above all, in the interests of the local people. What these interests are, you have actually heard in this process, both on the one hand and on the other. Stop partying, aim for people's love for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U97	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U98	Dear Chairman, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, This theme extends from wall to wall, as the administrative reform is a very broad area. I do think the Prime Minister answered the questions very essentially. I have some maybe telegram-style comments. Unfortunately, since I was the guardian of this bill, I can say that the draft bill of good colleagues, members of the Free Party, arrived only after the government had made its proposals on the compulsory mergers of 26 regions. So, actually, the process was already under way. We have heard here claims that the administrative reform of the first Republic of Estonia was good. Basically, he was, the boundaries were logical. But it was clearly top-directed and top-made reform, although the reasoning was well-long, Edgar Kanti and his students developed. Then, compared to the developments in our current administrative reform, the advantage was that at that moment there was a scheme on the table and one thing was done. Speaking of the last ten years, we have had Estonia in the parishes and then Estonia was the attraction centers. This was perhaps the best (this is my personal opinion as a geographer), the only problem was that it did not take into account the speciality of county centres as attraction centres. Now we still have a largely voluntary administrative reform on our table. We cannot compare this with either the first reform of the Republic of Estonia or the Latvian Reform, which was actually carried out from above. Yeah, there's a lot of illogical boundaries, but these boundaries actually started before. There has also been talk in this hall about a strong, quite large and certainly capable Viljandi municipality, but its boundaries do not take into account parishes or many other things, and this was done entirely voluntarily. There are other things like that. I didn't ask the Prime Minister by chance about villages or, rather, settlement units. It is not right to talk only about villages; actually, urban settlements, urban cities, can go through the same process. Between 2005 and 2009, the settlement unit did not actually have the right to withdraw from the municipality or change its borders within it. It now requires a two-thirds majority. If, together on Wednesday, we adopt (I invite you to support it today) a law amending the Local Government Organisation Act and other laws relating to the implementation of administrative reform, it will become a simple majority, i.e. 51% of the local government members will be able to make this decision if these regions express this will. But it is probably crucial here to find the optimal path or the intermediate level, because you cannot exclude municipalities; municipalities must also have rights. It is extremely important that the municipality can say which areas are part of its territory. Unfairness, yes, so to speak, is certainly. But different people have different opinions. I think that if we think about it from here on out, there is a very important question in the counties about how we, together, whether applying or in the future, will contribute to finding a new role for the local government associations. We were talking about development. After all, we give this task to the county authorities for joint fulfilment, and they also receive public transport arrangements. People will be able to move better when public transport centres have the opportunity to decide that public transport is free of charge. There was no mention of it today, but it's very important, because there's a lot of movement within the counties. Yes, I am of the same opinion that there is a problem for communities, but I do not think it will be solved by administrative reform; it will have to be resolved in the next stages. In fact, there is a need to support civil society organisations. For example, at some point when the new coalition started, it was also a matter of giving the local authorities a local initiative programme. But I think it's very important that it stays... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U99	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U100	In fact, it is possible to give communities more opportunities to deliver in their own region. I have asked quite a few people, including both Estonian top entrepreneurs and local villagers. It has become clear that many feel that membership of the council or election of the council is not so important, but that it is important for them to be able to serve as organisations so that they can be delivered as villages, as village societies. This is actually what we have to do here together to add these opportunities. I think that major developments are important in municipalities, whether water centres, sports halls or whatever, especially in the municipalities, but also in the cities, because the districts deserve much more attention, and I think that these things are important to the city people too. But it's actually very important to find developmental things in every part of town that don't have to be that big, but you might think local people are important. So, in fact, the administrative reform is moving in the right direction. The revenue base is something we talk about all the time. In my opinion, it is therefore very important that municipalities are stronger and more capable. County centres need to develop the main highways passing through cities, and the only way to do this is to apply for more money from programmes. I need them to do this with their revenue base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U101	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U102	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Good people's representatives! In the discussions on administrative-territorial reform, I have been waiting all along for a question and I expected the Prime Minister to raise it today. This question is very simple: what kind of Estonia do we want to see in 20, 50, 70 years? We can say that we want an independent, democratic nation state. We can want it, and if we want it, we have to say it. My colleague Hallemaa recalled the pre-war administrative reform of the Republic of Estonia. It is true that in this case it was very clear what the administrative-territorial division could be, and so it was implemented. But there was also a very clear answer to the second question: we want Estonia, where every place has its own regional characteristics, where cultural-historical traditions are preserved and where every person has reason and right to be proud of his or her country. We are now using very correct terms when discussing the administrative territorial arrangements, which are perfect for today's world, but in all of this there is no sense, belief and desire that an Estonian person, whether he is now doing his job far from Estonia or moving in search for employment within Estonia, would want and be able to live a full life here. This feeling, the sense of one's country through administrative-territorial reform, unfortunately, tends to disappear if we do not listen to the same people who organise local lives in local areas. I wish the Prime Minister and the entire government wisdom and justice so that Estonia's life, despite these major reforms, can be arranged according to the best of wishes and that we do not forget to answer the question of which Estonia we want to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U103	Members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak, but the Prime Minister does. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U104	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! If you don't mind, I'll give you a few thoughts. First of all, Artur Talvik spoke of strong communities. I think that's the right idea. We have tried to ask for and listen to the views of the residents as much as possible. I think that this idea of strong communities is also linked to the fact that we have asked for people's views on whether Seto is needed or not. They said it was necessary. You brought in the subject of Keila's town. There is a local government that has conducted a public survey, and the result is known to everyone. People have said they want to see the city of Keila independent. I also stressed in my reply that we must, of course, look at this picture through this prism, but also through the whole prism. We also need to look at these four or five municipalities, we need to see how people move there and what will make this community grow and develop. You brought Loksa, Kuusalu, etc. out of my answer. It was arbitrary, but the fact that the fiscal policy idea has been included in several analyses is, of course, true. Certainly, if you say Kuusalu wants to join Loksa, that is, in any case, one argument. Let's go. Mr. Herkel, you said it was like a pingpong. I have a feeling you're always hitting me with a curved ball and I have to think about whether it's going left or right, and I have to try, in a good way, to catch that reaction under your pitches and ball. You brought out Alutaguse, Kanep, the Goodmen, Luunya, and made it clear that if they were combined, it would be a big mistake. It is true that the government has made its proposals and, as I said, in the near future, it will also make its final decision on these municipalities. In any case, I will at least make your point. How's it going, it's really hard for me to say. You said that the increase in local governments gives, like, better opportunities for larger parties and the opportunities for smaller parties are weakening. No, this is not the basis for the reform of the municipality. The reform of the municipality can only be based on one thing: it must give better and greater opportunities to the residents of Estonia who live in one, another or third village or neighborhood. You said we didn't take the polls into account. In reply to Mr Talvik, I gave an example that we are taking them into account. I'll tell the Hatter that if you're tired, you need to rest. I don't know what else to say. I'm not tired, and I think you'll get over tired too. You rightly said that a good, clear and concrete vision is needed. I think that the issues you have raised are topical, and I sincerely believe that, in many places, there has been progress because of the cooperation between the government and the Free Party. You mentioned faith and hope. I have faith, hope and love in the Free Party, all three of them. You said that if there is a will and there is a will, then there is always a road. That's what they usually say. Krista Aru asked why the Prime Minister did not ask the question which Estonia we want. I don't dare ask you here, because the form here is that the Riigikogu asks and the Prime Minister answers. But if you give me this opportunity, I say that I want Estonia, where the population is growing, which is not a country with a declining population, which is not a hateful country, which is a noticeable country. I want peace in Estonia, I want a wealthy Estonia where people have jobs. I want an entire Estonia where people have better quality of life and more years of healthy life. Can I have another half-minute?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U105	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U106	I want smart and smart Estonia, I want education and innovation. I would certainly like Estonia, which is more united, including a stronger link between the opposition and the coalition. If part of your group and the Reform Party group, for example, thinks that the support of Olympic winners needs to be increased, then I think it is worth supporting by the government. It was just a small example. I also sincerely want political culture to be more inclusive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U107	So optimisticly, we will close the debate on this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U108	We are going to the next question to be asked by Urve Tiidus, Terje Trei, Igor Gräzin, Laine Randjärv and Urmas Kruuse. On behalf of the heirs, Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! This question was prompted by the increasing number of speakers in Estonia to present 'old Estonia'. The words spoken with an undertone that creates worrying emotions, of course, hide the objective fact that people's lives in Estonia are increasing and that the proportion of people of mature age in society is increasing. But every time they say that, be it an official, a politician, a scientist, or an opinion leader, you have to exclaim: "Isn't one of mankind's dreams and aspirations always been to live a longer life and to live a longer life? ' Since the 20th century, it has been accompanied by a desire to live a longer and healthier life and, since the 21st century, to live a longer, healthier and more surprising life, even a longer, active and workable life. Today, there are scientists who are convinced that the first human being to live for a thousand years has already been born and is somewhere on this planet among us. More and more scientists say that a biological revolution that allows people to live long and more youthful is about to arrive. Even if the probability of this opinion being true is 0.1%, it means that it is unlikely that none of us will be here to check it out in a thousand years. When talking about aging Estonia, this is often accompanied by a worrying conundrum. Firstly, whether the Estonian people will survive and how the younger generation will manage to cover pension, health, social services and social protection expenditure. That's really one side of the story. A smart and foresighted society can cope. On the other hand, Estonia's leading demographers have pointed out on several occasions that you can look on the bright side as well and you can say that an ageing nation can also benefit society, if not to say that it is a blessing. Longer life expectancy could also mean an increase in the ability to work, provided that people can acquire new skills in addition to previous experience in their old age, and that they can also apply these skills in new areas through an increasing level of education. However, the realisation of this potential depends on whether society can see added value here and on how economic development is directed. When Estonia is described as 'old Estonia', Japan is said to be 'a super-old nation whose life expectancy is growing the fastest in the world'. By 2050, one third of the population is expected to be over 65 years old. Japan, as a relatively reluctant country against high-tech and immigration, has not gone down the path of chasing things that have not been done or the unborn children, but has started to make up for the changing demographic situation with concrete steps. In addition to trying to change the social behaviour of young men and women and to create opportunities for them to find each other in a committed country, the biological problem has instead been shaped into the subject of engineering. Examples of the entry of intelligent machines into the labour market are numerous in the country of sunrise, until a well-designed cyber costume, called exoskeleton, can compensate for the muscle weakness associated with the years and also strengthen the power of a more mature age, so that, regardless of age, a person of 65+ can also cope with a number of physical abilities. I come back to Estonia. Eurostat estimates that the proportion of the population of the European Union aged 65 and over, as well as Estonia, will grow from 17% today to 30% by 2060. An even more pronounced indicator is the median age. This is the age of the same number of younger and older people in the population. The median age of the Estonian population will rise to 47.3 years in 2060, similar to the median age forecast for the European population. We share a similar fate here with seven countries: Lithuania, Slovenia, Malta, Liechtenstein, Poland, Romania and Slovakia, whose population has been one of the youngest, but by 2060 they will still be countries with a high proportion of older people. Those who are now 39 years old, for example, are celebrating their 82nd birthday in 2060. This is also your vintage, Prime Minister. All of this requires that Estonian leaders now have a vision for the future of a mature age group. And not only a pragmatic vision of how to collect more taxes from a shrinking group of taxpayers in society today and burden children with loans, but a vision of how to make the current forecasts a better reality as leaders of smart, entrepreneurial and innovative policies. We have questions for you too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U110	The questions of inquiry will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U111	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs, thank you very much for your questioning. If I may, I will say both on the previous question, which was made by the Free Party, and on the question, which is submitted by the members of the Reform Party Group, that I thank very much for this sensible and, I would say, constructive tone. I think it's quite a value. That's what I'm really saying. I hope the heirs will allow this, but I have divided your three questions into four questions, because on the second question you actually have two questions in mind. I hope you don't mind. The first question: 'Eager countries in the world invest in people and teaching new skills regardless of age. How do you think Estonia fits into this picture? ' I will briefly outline some of the main indicators. First of all, last year the indicator of participation in lifelong learning in Estonia rose to the highest level so far. In 2016, 15.7% of the population aged 25 to 64 participated in lifelong learning. Ten years ago, this figure was around 7%. Secondly, if we were with this figure at the time, we would still like to assess ourselves in the context of other European countries, on the 14th, and well below the European Union average or estimate, then, according to last year's figure, we are 7th in the European Union and significantly better than the European average (10.8%). I think there is much that can be done in this area. As you say dearly in the preamble or introduction of your inquiry, an ageing nation can also be a blessing. I don't think we really look the worst in this picture at the moment. Lifelong learning strategy sets our own goals, one of the goals is that in 2020, at least twenty percent of adults will participate in continuous learning. The second question: "Lifelong learning is a well-known principle, is access to such learning guaranteed for anyone who wishes it? ' Estonian education laws and regulations support the opportunity to study throughout a person's life cycle, i.e. definitely also in adulthood. Access to lifelong learning means that everyone can learn regardless of age, social and economic background, gender, nationality, place of residence or special educational needs. To this end, educational institutions, flexible forms of study and curricula providing diverse learning are needed, and it is also important that additional measures are taken to support participation in learning. Very important measures supporting access to lifelong learning are certainly linked to student loans and study leave, access to them, but also, of course, to health insurance. In order to complete basic and general secondary education, there are more than 30 schools in Estonia where it is possible to study on a non-statorial basis. There are 16 upper secondary schools for adults focusing only on non-stationary learning. At the same time as work and family life, you can learn with an appropriate study load according to your needs, including by individual subjects or by individual curriculum. Vocational education is available in several regions and for a wide range of target groups. Vocational training is provided by 33 VET institutions and five universities of applied sciences. The network of educational institutions covers all our counties. Vocational education for adults is provided in both fixed and non-static forms of study. Graduates of vocational education who wish to continue their studies at a higher education institution can use an additional year of upper secondary school for adults to complete further general education courses in order to prepare for state examinations. Higher education can be obtained in Estonia at full and part-time. Non-formal learning, or courses, is provided by vocational schools, higher education institutions and a number of private training institutions. According to the Estonian Education Information System, we have over 800 organisations offering further training. The implementation of the Adult Education Act and the continuing training standard, which entered into force in 2015, supports the provision of high-quality non-formal learning. The second part of the second question reads: "Does the taught fit current and future needs of the labour market? ' In order for formal education and non-formal learning to meet the needs of the labour market, it is necessary to first know these needs, then apply them and ultimately assess the achievement of the necessary skills. We know that there are not enough young graduates and that today's and flexible education for adults must also be provided to keep the economy running. In order to link the education system to the labour market, a professional system has been set up to make what skills the labour market needs visible, understandable and certainly comparable for trainers and learners. The assessment of labour market needs will be supported by an analysis and forecast of the skills needs of the workforce, professional standards describing the skills needs and the availability of the necessary skills will be assessed by means of an invitation. Two years ago, OSKA analyses the need for skills and labour for the development of the Estonian economy, i.e. it helps to teach and learn the right things. As a result, proposals will be made for the creation of training and training places in advanced education and training, the development of content and organisation of learning, the establishment and updating of professional standards, the introduction of disciplines and occupations, and certainly also for popularisation. The OSA studies have carried out an in-depth review of the needs and trends in eight areas. All sectors of the economy will be analysed over the next four years. Professional standards are regularly updated. The current professional standards are close to 600 and cover all areas of economic activity. Professional standards provide input to vocational and higher education institutions and continuing training curricula and professional standards also provide information for updating curricula. The system of professional standards and professions also supports the development and recognition of professional knowledge. Around two thirds of the vocational examinations are passed by adults who wish to demonstrate their improved professional qualifications after obtaining a degree, gaining work experience and continuing training. The last question: "Most countries in the world constantly review their educational programmes and strive to ensure that the skills they teach do not get in the way of time. Can you confirm that Estonia has created equal opportunities for younger and older age groups to adapt to technological change and increasing global competition? ' The number of adult students and their share are increasing. There are ongoing educational innovations in general education, vocational training and higher education, which also concern adult learners. The Estonian Lifelong Learning Strategy has set the objective of applying a changed learning concept, increasing the competences of teachers and school leaders, improving the matching of lifelong learning opportunities and the needs of the world of work, and also making a digital shift in learning. Education innovations and better access to learning opportunities also concern non-formal learning, including adult training and retraining opportunities and the development of key skills for lifelong learning, such as social skills, mother tongue and foreign language skills, digital literacy, etc. The Ministry of Education and Research has created opportunities for developing professional skills for people with lower levels of education and non-professional training and has created opportunities for developing key competences for lifelong learning for adults with the support of the Social Fund. The Unemployment Insurance Fund has increasingly extended the provision of training to the unemployed, and on 1 May new training services have also started to be provided to people in employment whose skills have become obsolete and who are therefore at risk of becoming unemployed. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has launched measures to develop digital skills for adults. Of course, we do not want to confine ourselves to these results, but we consider it important that adults' access to education and their continuous development increase. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U112	Four of them were initially registered. Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Prime Minister, for this very statistical report that the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs had prepared well for you. My question is maybe emotional. Indeed, we have many opportunities in the country for retraining, but it is a question of attitudes. Several heads of institutions who are now in their 30s have such an attitude that if a person is already 45 to 50 years old, it may not be as if he or she is no longer fit for one or the other collective. My question to you, whoever you are 40 years old, is this: could you do something about your peers, your generation, to change your attitude towards people who are 50 years old or older (where they are now certainly more capable than they were perhaps 20 years ago) and to expect people who are experienced and experienced in life to work? How Can I Change My Viewpoint?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U114	Thank you. First of all, I come to the beginning of your question. I think the Prime Minister has two options before coming to this speech chair: he can ask for the help of specialists or come here only with his wisdom to answer the question. I have always chosen this first path, I have asked for the help of the good servants of the Estonian state, and I have added as much wisdom as I have. I think all previous prime ministers and ministers have used this route. I think the philosophical question you raised is very legitimate. Your question consisted of two parts, you were interested in my opinion, and how to do it, I don't know, for the 35 to 45-year-olds to make it clear that life experience is very important. I have quite often brought this example when I speak in schools, that when young people start doing after high school or high school, I think one of the most important decisions in life, when they either choose to go to university for further studies or go somewhere to study a profession, for example, they should think that if they are 70 years old, for example, they should be hard at work in this area and be necessary there. I have a very personal experience that gave me a pretty strong lesson. It is that if a person resigns from a high political position and is over 70 years of age, but he is applying for a position in which he has actually been educated and also worked, although this application may not be facilitated by certain political trends, he will be elected to this position. He is chosen because he has very good knowledge and skills in this field, but he is also chosen because he has life experience. I have always very strongly emphasised this aspect of life experience. What do I say? I don't mean to say that I feel like I've gotten angry, but it's been really hard on me to say that when a person is 60, 65, 70, 75 or 80, he's no longer fit for the labour market. On the contrary! I think that the role of life experience in Estonian society is very important. At the beginning of the 1990s, a person had to be, I don't know, under 40 when he came into politics or top politics or started running some kind of top business. I think the attitude has changed today. I have always been approached by an example of a Danish multinational company. The manager of this company decided at one point that he would create a very important cultural institution in Copenhagen based on private investment. As far as I know, that person was more than 90 then, and he was in charge every day. I come to the other part of your question. How can we change that attitude? That depends very much on what my generation, or my generation, younger generation, at the moment, I am talking about from the point of view of my generation, out of the open. If we say the honorable lady or honorable gentleman, since your age is 50+ or 60+, you are therefore not suitable for us, we will give you one signal. But my signal to answer your question now is quite different. I remember when I had the honour of once holding office here in the Riigikogu, one of my closest advisors, counselors, was over 70. When he decided at one point that he no longer wanted to be an advisor and stayed home, I had a conversation with a younger person who wanted to apply. He told me you had an older gentleman there before, you know, I'm much better. It created a very large barrier in me. What do you mean, this older gentleman had a great deal of wisdom and life experience, you can't say that! That's my attitude, all positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U115	Please, Anne Sulling!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U116	Good President! Good Prime Minister! Given the small size of our country, it is very important that our people are well educated. However, statistics tell us that almost a third of our workforce lacks professional education, both university and vocational education. What, in your opinion, could be the reason for this and how can this be improved?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U117	I think the reason might be pretty strong in the attitude that if I'm 30 or 35, do I really go back to studying? In my opinion, this attitude has started to change very strongly. On the one hand, I see that people contribute to new learning, new jobs, new skills. I met a group of people from my generation who studied the profession, such as record-making, in Tartu or in one of the trade schools. I talked to some of them. It turned out they had a bachelor's or a master's degree, but they had come to that school to learn more. The other part of the question was how to change the situation. I think there are examples of people who have realised that education is actually very important, and who maybe 15 years ago, when it was their time to graduate from high school or high school, didn't do it, but now they're doing it afterwards. Fortunately, there are examples in society, even among musicians who have said that they want to go back to study. It is very good that the state has these opportunities, it is very good that the municipality has these opportunities, so that these people can show this example even within the framework of the upper secondary school for adults. There is nothing to do, but education begins to cost more and more, not every day, but every hour. Let's look at the statistics. In fact, the number of adult students in general education is after 2013/14. The decline in school year has returned to growth. This means that society is increasingly aware of the problems of low levels of education, such as less employment, fewer opportunities for people and lower wages. The cooperation of many parties, I believe, will certainly give faith or hope that anyone who has interrupted education can go back to study, then he will gain more knowledge, and therefore he will also have better opportunities in the labour market and the opportunity to gain more income. I will say so much more about statistics that the proportion of students aged 30 and older in higher education has also increased. Universities were in 2016/17. over 12200 students aged 35+ in the academic year, which was 25.7% of all students. But I think that here, as I pointed out in my response to your inquiry, there is still room for further opportunities, as have been the issues of leave, health insurance and student loans and student benefits. I think that all of this will contribute to greater employment and inclusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U118	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In your reply, you pointed out as a positive trend that the number of participants in lifelong learning has increased to 15.7%. That's right, the year before, there were about 12% of them. But it is worrying that according to Statistics Estonia, only people aged 25 to 34 have caused this growth, and there has been no growth in older age groups. For example, the participation of the 55+ age group in lifelong learning has remained at 4.5 to 4.8%. It is particularly worrying that learning in old age is purely work-related, as well as that men do not participate in it. Digital skills are the biggest problem. What specific activities has the government foreseen in terms of men's continuing education, especially at the age of 55+?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U120	Thank you. I also said in my reply that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will certainly pay more attention to the digital direction. It is clear that e-solutions or teleworking opportunities give older people a better opportunity to take part in further education. You mentioned the participation of men. I think one of the important aspects of continuing education is that life expectancy is increasing. There is nothing to do, but the facts and statistics speak the language that it is a long way for men to walk here to increase the number of healthy life years. If you want to know the concrete measures taken on the digital side in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, they are, of course, no secret. I ask that a list of the precise steps and measures that the digital sector has to offer to men of age group 55+ be sent to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U121	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U122	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Prime Minister! The business sector has been very active in repeating that we have a lack of working hands. At the same time, as has been pointed out in previous questions, our social readiness to engage in so-called cross-generational work is somewhat narrow. Have you discussed in the government the idea of creating some kind of start-up capital, for example, for companies that motivate older people to continue working? If you haven't, then why?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U123	Thank you. If you ask whether there is a separate start-up capital for men aged 55+ or so, I say no, we have not discussed the creation of such a start-up capital. I think these disputes should definitely remain within the competence of the ministries. If the minister brings this matter to the cabinet meeting, I see nothing deplorable about it, it may be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U124	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. But I have one more question. In the world, not only in terms of economic and innovation, but also in terms of GDP growth and quality of life, are those countries with a high proportion of people with tertiary education and where it is growing rapidly. Political rhetoric often says that investment in people is the most important. That is why I ask you, Prime Minister, asking you not to be bound by the coalition agreement and promises at the moment: what, in your opinion, is a higher return for society, an investment in tertiary education or an investment, for example, in the regeneration of the city hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U126	Thank you. I think you gave these two examples in your question entirely by accident. But, good questioner, investing in people is always the most important thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U127	Thank you, Prime Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm sorry, Urmas Kruuse! Probably got the wrong glasses in the front.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! Many experts have said to the current government that it is not a very sensible act to borrow and downgrade the budget at the time of economic growth. It is also unsustainable to give an additional boost to the economy in this environment. We all know that there is a work capacity reform in Estonia that aims to ensure that all people can participate in society and work according to their abilities. We also know that, after the end of European Union funding, the Estonian state needs to take over the financing of this reform. Please state in concrete terms how much money has been allocated in the budgetary strategy to implement an exit strategy for the work capacity reform in order to give up the use of European Union money. The former size of the European Union will certainly not be funded in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U129	These budget figures will be sent to you. I really am not ready to read you the country's budget strategy in line today.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U130	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! We do indeed have a number of measures that help to participate in lifelong learning. But are these opportunities and resources equal for people living in urban and rural areas, or should particular emphasis be placed on rural areas and peripheral areas? Perhaps this feeling is wrong, but it really seems to me that in all regions these opportunities are not at all equal, that they are more like concentrated in cities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U132	Thank you. I think that this question comes very closely with the subject of the previous inquiry, that we want capable and strong municipalities. It is no secret that in rural areas and on the outskirts of Estonia mobility is much worse than in the city. It is no secret that the fast internet in rural areas, scattered areas, is much more problematic than densely populated areas. Are there steps being taken here? Yeah, they do. I am pleased that a member of the Riigikogu, Helmut Hallemaa, gave the same example of intra- county transport. It has been provided with 21 additional million to make it more operational and faster and cheaper for tickets. The same development of information technology, so that the faster internet is also available in distributed areas, is included in the strategic investment plan, with 10 million for one year and 10 million for the second year. So I think that, unfortunately, there is truth in your question: beyond the city, it will certainly be more costly to upgrade and these opportunities will be more difficult to access.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U133	Now we're done with the questions. Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations, no calls. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U134	The third item is the inquiry to promote innovation in the Estonian economy presented on 4 May by Anne Sulling and her colleagues Laine Randjärv, Igor Gräzini, Urmas Kruuse, Kalle Laaneti, Kristen Michali, Taavi Rõivas, Maris Lauri, Toomas Kivimägi, Yoko Alenderi, Meelis Mälberg, Aivar Sõerdi, Arto Aasa, Urve Tiidus, Terje Trei, Jüri Jaanson, Lauri Luige, Liina Kersna and Ants Laaneotsa. Anne Sulling, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U135	Good manager! Good Riigikogu! The question of the members of the Reform Party's group is driven by the press release of 20 April by the Minister of Enterprise, which announced that the state will direct an additional 160 million euros to the development of more innovative Estonian entrepreneurship. However, a closer look showed that 60 million out of 160 million euros goes to the rental house programme and 40 million to renovate the city hall. Both have nothing to do with promoting innovation in Estonian entrepreneurship. International innovation index indicators are known to be primarily based on R &amp; D-related indicators such as the share of R &amp; D expenditure in GDP, the number of doctoral students, the number of patents, etc. Of course, they are not affected by the construction of rental houses. That is why we ask the Minister for Enterprise how he believes that building rental homes and renovating the city hall will improve Estonia's position in the World Economic Forum Innovation Index ranking table and why the Minister of Enterprise prefers to channel resources into activities where innovation does not occur instead of scaling up innovation support programmes, such as the EAS company's development programme and the innovation and development unit, which has been recommended by the International Monetary Fund, among other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U136	Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, must answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U137	Good evening, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your interest and your questioning. Since there's not enough time, but a lot of talk, I'm not going to read the questions, I'm going to answer them now, if that's okay. Answer to the first question. The competitiveness index of the World Economic Forum places Estonia at a fairly high 30th place compared to 138 countries. The index score given to Estonia has been slowly but strongly improved year by year. The competitiveness index consists of 12 sub-indices, one of which is innovation and the score places Estonia on the 28th place. In turn, the innovation index takes into account: innovation capacity, the quality of scientific research institutions, private sector R &amp; D expenditure, university-business research cooperation, public procurement of high-tech products, the availability of researchers and engineers and PCT patent applications. Unfortunately, the trend in university-business cooperation, public procurement and patent indicators is clearly downward. For public procurement, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has launched a new measure on public procurement supporting innovation. Public procurement organisers wishing to buy innovative products and services can apply for support from EAS. The total budget for the action is EUR 20 million. The measure will help to bring innovation into public procurement practice and improve this indicator. In order to promote cooperation between universities and businesses, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has a technology development centre measure with a total budget of EUR 40 million. It aims to create research-based companies based on cooperation between universities and businesses. Innovation and development shares will also contribute to cooperation, with EUR 10 million earmarked for this purpose. The Ministry of Education and Research, in turn, has an applied research measure of EUR 27 million. These measures will have an impact in the coming years. However, it is a fact that even wider changes are needed to improve cooperation between universities and businesses, which only funding measures may not achieve. The capacity for engineering, applied and experimental development required by a wider range of entrepreneurs has become weak in Estonian research institutions. The movement of entrepreneurial researchers from science to business and back is not guaranteed. The research system could also take into account the contribution to the creation of research-intensive entrepreneurship in assessing the work of researchers, in addition to publishing scientific articles. I come back to the beginning of the question. With the help of rental homes, the state wants to encourage local authorities and companies to involve industry experts, and why not universities and more courageously consider the introduction of innovative solutions. The city hall project is an ambitious task, all the more so as the building also has restrictions on heritage conservation. The reconstruction plans are expected to take place for years. Now that the state is ready to come to help, several solutions are being developed and experts from Tallinn University of Technology are also involved. The design process is designed for innovative solutions for energy nodes, heat and cooling, which could be useful in other buildings in the future. The design initial task has been compiled using a model of surveying using a point cloud, which is a prerequisite for using BIM. BIM and digital engineering are today a prerequisite for the international competitiveness of the construction sector. Large projects implementing innovative solutions are essential and, in the interests of research development, we consider it important for the state to support their implementation. If BIM is fully implemented, Estonia has a total productivity growth potential of over 200 million euros and export growth potential of over 100 million euros. In addition, the implementation of BIM will also allow savings in public spending. For example, Great Britain, which is considered to be a flagship in the world when implementing BIM, saved GBP 900 million for its taxpayers in 2009-2015 through the implementation of BIM. As of 2021, all buildings will have to meet the requirements of nearly zero-energy buildings, while public buildings will be subject to this requirement as early as 2019. We consider it important that the country also sets an example here. As a result, there is a requirement that new rented dwellings be included in the "A' energy efficiency class. However, achieving this will require the development of innovative solutions. We have provided that the local authority should present the public procurement task for ordering the works to KredEx for review. The state has also contributed to the transition to nearly zero-energy buildings through other measures. For example, near zero-energy demonstration projects have been commissioned in cooperation with KredEx to develop universal node solutions. They're gonna be accessible to everyone. BIM methods and technology could also be used in the design and management of rental homes. Answer to Question 2. The total budget is 73 million euros, both for the skills measure and for the company's development programme, which was discussed here earlier. That's enough for the next few years, I see. It therefore does not make sense to put more budgetary resources there at the moment. In addition, during this period Estonia will focus more strongly on demand side measures, such as innoprocurement and financing instruments EstFund, Baltic Innovation Fund and loans and guarantees from KredEx. The IMF recommended that special support programmes be designed taking into account, inter alia, the fact that traditional industrial sectors continue to dominate and have a significant share in productivity growth and employment supply. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has taken all this into account in the preparation of the Green Paper on Industrial Policy (which is currently being prepared in close cooperation with businesses) and in the planning of activities for industry. The concept of digitalisation of industry is coming to an end, with additional resources provided for in the state budget, i.e. the ICT development programme. Industry-designed hackathons are coming up and a platform for digitalisation of industry will be completed. At the same time, we are lagging behind in the digitalisation of the construction sector. This is partly because, unlike other countries, we have largely lost support measures in the construction and real estate sector. Consequently, in addition to the above instruments, it is also important to take additional measures in the construction sector, where contracting authorities could be involved. Unfortunately, the situation in the construction sector has become such that the work depends largely on the skills of the contracting authority. If the state is able to make available to the contracting authority the wisdom of digital engineering in order to improve the preparation of the procurement start-up tasks, there will also be better preconditions for cooperation between businesses and universities. Answer to question three. The share of manufacturing industry in Estonia's GDP is really significant, i.e. 15.1%. Industrial production accounts for 70% of exports, while the value added of Estonian industry is only 55% of the European average. I agree that we must contribute to the increase in added value in the manufacturing industry. Increasing the competitiveness of manufacturing industries is therefore one of the main priorities of the current government. Between 2016 and 2020 more than €200 million will be devoted to improving the productivity of the processing industry through different activities. This includes the Environmental Investment Centre resource investment measure, EAS company development programme, ICT development programme as well as other grants, financial instruments and support activities. Digitisation, together with the development of digital competences for different levels of staff, is the main tool for increasing the sector's added value. A significant part of the ICT development programme financed by the state budget is intended directly for the processing industry. Within this framework, a platform Industry 4.0 will be developed as Germany will follow, with the aim of steering the development of digitalisation and automation of industry, as well as financing, together with market participants in the future. The activities aim to improve both process innovation, the output of which is more efficient use of production inputs, and product, services and business model innovation, which will enable the company to increase its sales revenue. The programme shall, inter alia, provide for awareness-raising and competence-building activities, support the development and implementation of digital solutions and cross-sectoral cooperation, as well as the development of robotics training programmes. At the end of the year, we will open support measures for the digitisation of industry, with a budget of EUR 12.7 million, and for the first time, public funding (EUR 3 million) will be made available to promote R &amp; D. Enterprise Estonia will start supporting regional enterprises to create electricity and other connections and to join the network, with a total of EUR 11 million. In addition, we contribute to the development of digital skills at different levels. I heard the Prime Minister was talking about it earlier. In the first phase, we will start this year with a digital basic skills programme for metal and wood industry workers, a total of 3000 people, and industry managers, a total of 1000 people. Specific ICT skills training for 4000 people in the timber and mechanical engineering industry is coming up and programmers training is underway 'Select IT! ', in which we give the software developer knowledge to a total of 500 people. It could be said that the entire e-Estonia leveraging programme will receive 28 million euros over the next three years, plus making high-speed internet access available, which is 10 million euros per year, and we will also invest in the development of the Estonian-Finnish X-Road. So there are a lot of activities that are specifically designed to digitise, to help industry achieve productivity. The share of the Estonian construction sector in GDP is 6% in the middle, and the value added of the circuma 1.1 million euros. Globally, this value is EUR 8 trillion and is expected to grow to EUR 14 trillion over the next ten years. At international level, the sector's growth potential is seen in particular in the implementation of ICT solutions, with a view to improving governance and the efficiency of processes. To keep pace with international construction practice, we also need to modernise the sector; there is simply no choice here. The ICT development plan therefore envisages, inter alia, the role of BIM projects as the basis for building and ICT interconnection. The introduction of BIM, or building information management, would have a major impact on the productivity of the Estonian construction sector and the growth in the export of construction services and goods, but it would also make this sector more attractive for young engineers, young entrants. We can see that there is little so-called growth in the construction sector, because this sector is not interesting enough for young people. This was a brief description of what the government plans to do in order to promote more research and development in Estonia, but also to increase productivity. Not to mention, among other things, the government has decided to join a programme such as CERN. We have very successfully launched our participation in the Space Agency and are planning to prepare for joining CERN so that our scientists can develop their knowledge and test their skills there and, hopefully, to promote the economy here when they return home. But I'm looking forward to the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U138	There are. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The Competitiveness Index of the World Economic Forum consists of several indicators. It's kind of sad to look at this schedule. There is nothing we can do about the size of the market, but the fact that the indicator of innovation and technological readiness is not very high is a cause for concern. What concrete steps are going to be taken to improve these indicators and increase our competitiveness in these areas? To be honest, there is an introduction to the question, which says that 160 million are going for innovation, 60 million of which go to rental homes and 40 city halls, very strange to read. So, what are we doing to improve this readiness for innovation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U140	Thank you. This misunderstanding could be the fault of a failed press release. I have just read in 15 minutes the sums that go to the digitalization of industry and to R &amp; D. This total amount is not 160 million, but several times higher. But this press release may have focused on construction and made the wrong impression in that sense, as if it were everything that was being dealt with. It's only part of the government's activities. When you ask me what is being done specifically, I actually talked about it for quite a while. But I am happy to bring in one aspect that I did not mention in the introductory speech. The situation in Estonia is that 95% of companies are small enterprises with 1 to 10 employees, 4% are those with 10 to 50 employees, and 1% are those with more than 50 employees. Let's see where R &amp; D is going. 75% of the total R &amp; D activity takes place in this 1% of companies. It's inevitable on the one hand. In a company with up to ten employees, R &amp; D activities are usually carried out unless we are talking about start-ups very much, there are no corresponding employees, etc. So this is one of our bottlenecks. Similarly, it is also the 4% of companies with 10 to 50 employees. Nevertheless, the measures and schemes of EAS, KredEx and the government are aimed specifically at small and medium-sized enterprises, as it is assumed that the 1% with more than 50 employees is already viable. There are small exceptions, but these measures are generally intended for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are called SMEs. Let's talk about productivity. Yes, the productivity of Estonian industry is 55% of the European Union average. I've said it's like a tantrum that's been standing still for ten years, it hasn't almost changed. We have heard such rhetoric that the state does not intervene; it simply creates the same environment for everyone and then everyone develops in the same way. Unfortunately, the result has been that productivity has not increased in our industry. It is said that inequality must be reduced by unequal measures, i.e. unequal measures must be taken. This situation cannot be changed by sowing the same things everywhere. Take, for example, a programme designed to enable companies to join the rural area either with electricity or gas supply or to increase their capacity, or to build this last mile. We have decided that we are going to do a programme where companies located outside the big cities can apply for money because they are actually in an unequal and poorer situation, this whole merger is more complicated and costly. We will also see how much is being invested in research and development in Estonia at all. The latest data show that private R &amp; D expenditure is 0.6% of GDP and that public expenditure is 0.8%. The state is now in the process of increasing its share, as public funding for R &amp; D has indeed been planned for the first time in the coming years. In the past, all the European Union's resources were there. In that case, the European Union will say in advance what we are contributing to and where we will not say it ourselves. I think this increase in funding is the first step towards deciding for ourselves what and how we want to develop. So the R &amp; D expenditure of the Estonian private sector is twice as low as the average in the European Union. These are the facts that speak for themselves. That is why so many measures have now been developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research and the EAS so that, for example, in order for a researcher to receive money for a research project, he must also demonstrate cooperation with the company. Such financing models have now been developed in addition to innovation procurement, etc. But I am not going to go over what I said in the introduction that research and development ultimately concerns all digitisation. We cannot only say that we have to do new inventions, but we have to move up the value chain. To do this, we need to offer more expensive products and services, but in order to be able to offer these more expensive products and services, we need to automate, digitize and do other things. We have to consider that we have to start training people in parallel. Statistics show that the company in which R &amp; D activities are carried out exports 1.6 times more and employs 1.3 times more people than those who do not. It seems paradoxical, because when digitalised and mechanized, jobs are reduced, but in fact, because the company is expanding and more competitive in export markets, it takes on more workers, but they are of a different profile. So training is very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U141	Please, Anne Sulling!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U142	Good Minister of Entrepreneurship! Doctoral students are known to play a very important role in national innovation policies. We recently heard that the government abandoned the original plan to double the doctoral scholarships. Doubled would have meant an additional cost of EUR 9 million in the budget, a new plan representing a cost of EUR 5 million, thus saving EUR 4 million. Do you not think that saving 4 million euros from doctoral students in a situation where the government spends 60 million euros on rental homes is unreasonable in terms of promoting innovation in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U143	I think that we should not oppose one subject to another, because both are important. The rental housing programme is broadly about entrepreneurship across Estonia. The last time I came from Saaremaa, where a representative of the electronics industry said they wanted to expand, they have customers and export markets, but they are unable to take on staff with an engineering education on the ground, because everyone is already at work. If a man was ready to come from the mainland to work for them, he just doesn't have anywhere to live in Kuressaare. Go check out the real estate portals. Can you find a two-room apartment in Kuressaare to rent? I don't. If you do, it's worth 1,000 euros a month. Urve Tiidus can comment on this later. That is the way it is, because Kuressaare is, as we know, a great resort town, which makes prices considerably higher and has less chance of finding an apartment on the market. Such examples can be found all over Estonia; I will not burden you with this issue for long. It is clear, however, that the rental housing programme is largely designed to enable entrepreneurship to develop across Estonia, companies to grow and we all get richer as a result. But speaking of PhD students, it's nice to make that comparison. You are the representative of the opposition, your party was in power for a very long time, for decades. Then why didn't you increase the doctoral allowance? The current power coalition, which came to power six months ago, decided that it wanted to double the support of doctoral students. In the course of the budget, however, it became clear that it is not possible to increase so much at the same time, and it will not be increased twice, but significantly. And now it's like something's been taken away. In fact, there is more, rather than being taken away from the past, and there is a significant increase. But I think we can definitely move on from here in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U144	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! Indeed, the need for cooperation between R &amp; D institutions and the business sector has been mentioned for decades. However, progress has been very difficult to come despite the fact that there are joint actions and programmes. A number of small businesses, who are in the majority, call the very high bureaucracy of these programmes and measures as the biggest obstacle, do not have the strength and the ability to deal with it. This bureaucracy has been largely imposed by the state itself in many places. Would it not be time to review all this bureaucracy and these requirements?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U146	Thank you. There is certainly no justification for unjustified bureaucracy. We also call paperwork or reporting bureaucracy, but when we give public money, we have to create some sort of control mechanisms and control it all. I believe that the taxpayer would also be unhappy if someone were simply given taxpayers' money, whether for their beautiful eyes or for their guts and without control, even if it is the money of the taxpayer in the European Union. So certain controls, bureaucracy and rules are needed. However, they must not be such as to impede the achievement of the good objective of this measure. If there are concrete examples that some measure involves unreasonable bureaucracy, I am very happy to listen to them and pass on this information. It is not possible for the Minister to say in itself that we are giving money in a simpler way, because if the money has been misused, then the officials are responsible, and we are again reading from the front pages of the papers that something is being called back from someone. Nobody wants that either. However, if there are concrete examples of how to make things better, to make the end result easier for the company, but at the same time the use of taxpayers' money would still be transparent and controlled, then I will be happy to listen to them and pass on this information as well. Of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U147	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! We're a little confused here. The Honorable Prime Minister has admitted in this Chamber that funding for research and development according to this plan, which is aimed at, is actually complex. You tried to say in your speech that funding is clearly on the way to growth. There really isn't a sign like that. We must admit that we do not have to contrast PhD students with other subjects. But the issue of priorities is the competence of the Minister, and the Minister can actually set priorities. This unfortunate city hall has been through a lot of talk. I hate to mention this at all, but as we know, entrepreneurs have said that they are prepared to shoulder the construction of an international conference centre and only need certain support from the state. This state support would be several times smaller than the funds allocated to Tallinn and it would also be possible to obtain additional funding for R &amp; D. Why don't you take this opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U149	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, I cannot agree with that, of course, as if the current government were making little contribution to R &amp; D. In any case, it contributes significantly more than the previous governments did. One can start by significantly increasing the support of doctoral students, continuing with the fact that literally state budget funds come into R &amp; D next year and there are a number of support measures and programmes, the size of which can ultimately be measured with hundreds of millions, and the decision to join CERN, which is a very big decision and very good news for Estonian researchers, can be concluded. But when it comes to the city hall, it has to be said that on the one hand, such a conference centre is needed in Estonia. The Association of Tourists has also been saying for years that, a good country, do something about it and put it on your shoulders. After all, it is clear that this centre will not be created under market conditions, because no one has banned it from doing so under market conditions, but it has not come. It is such a costly project, and it is also linked to risks, so the business sector has not taken it upon itself. At the same time, it is known that a conference visitor leaves the country on average three times as much money as a regular tourist. He is wealthier and spends more: he goes to more restaurants, is ready to stay in a more expensive hotel and uses more services. So there's a need. At all, conference tourism is a growing industry in the world because large groups and corporations around the world have annual conferences for which new places are sought every year, etc. But, yeah, where do you make it? EAS commissioned an analysis last year to see what the best place would be. Different options were considered. Ernst & Young has, in my opinion, carried out this analysis, if I am not mistaken now. I think it was Ernst & Young, in any case it was an international research company. A summary of this analysis says that the city hall is the most potential in terms of location, as it is located almost in the city centre, in the Old Town, near the Town Hall Square. This is rare, because the major conference centers are usually very far from the center of the city, and you have to drive there by train or car for a long time. But we would have an extraordinarily good location in the conference centre, which is almost on the Town Hall Square, where hotels, restaurants and all possible service providers are walking away. We're not talking about the harbor at all, but there's an airport very close. The location is very good in itself. Let's also talk about the fact that we still have one piece of heritage protection on the Town Hall Square that hasn't been fixed. Solutions have also been sought in cooperation with the private sector, but nothing has turned out, this object is disintegrating and at the same time ruins our living environment. In view of all this, Ernst & Young also suggested that the city hall be the most reasonable location. You can also make a very large concert hall, which can be used multifunctionally, because if there are large conferences, you can sometimes also use the concert hall for them. This concert hall would be the largest in Europe, as far as I know, and I think Britain will be next in size. It would bring great concerts here, and then concerts. So this synergy itself is pretty big. I very, very much hope that this project will start and the city hall will be fixed. I am not exactly prepared to answer this question, and there is so much information that I tend to forget something, but in this same analysis it says how many tourists would come to Estonia and how much money they would leave behind. Perhaps this part of the country, EUR 40 million, would return quite quickly, with additional tax revenues, of course not in one year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U150	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U151	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! This week the Riigikogu is dealing with several tax changes, which is an obvious example of budget deficits. The government's primary task would be to look at what are the tasks that the state does not really need to fulfil. Then you give the example that there is a problem in the town of Kuressaare because there is a shortage of two-room apartments, their rent is 1000 euros. How can it be the responsibility of the state to provide rental housing in this deficit situation? Secondly, so far the practice has shown that if the service is provided by Riigi Kinnisvara AS, which is likely to provide this service, it will actually offer the service even more expensively. We see this as an example of the management of buildings managed by several countries. The road tax, sweeter, packaging fee, they would not be all there if the same 60 million were not used, which is not the task of the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U152	Thank you. I thank you for giving me a very specific opportunity to talk about the rental housing programme. Since you specifically asked me that, I'm gonna say the same thing. The rental housing programme goes to 20 million a year. In Estonia, municipal housing accounts account for about 1% of the total housing fund. In other parts of the world, developed Western countries and Nordic countries, this percentage varies from 20 to 25. This is not because it is nice to have municipal housing, but because of a clear need. Western Europe and the Nordic countries also have the same situation: outside large cities, the market does not tend to build new apartment buildings that can be rented. The reason is that construction of apartment buildings in rural areas is at the same price as construction in Tallinn or Tartu, but the market value of apartments is considerably lower there. Of course, in this case, the private sector does not build apartment buildings. We have seen for 25 years, when we have been independent again, that new apartment buildings, not to mention rental dwellings, have not been built outside Tallinn, Tartu or Pärnu. Yes, individual apartment houses have been built for a very wealthy clientele in Haapsalu or Kuressaare, but they are for sale. I asked the head of Swedbank if they were lending to build rental homes. He said no, their real estate portfolio will be filled with projects that are built for sale, they do not need to give money to build rental apartments. Yet there is a need. When you walk around Estonia and meet entrepreneurs, you can hear it very clearly in different regions: a good country, please help the municipality to renew the housing fund. Today, a person is ready to move after a job, but he is not ready to go to a demolished old apartment building, even if he is offered the opportunity at all. He's not ready for this. He wants to live in a modern environment. Plus, before you move somewhere, you're gonna see if you like the job and the area, and then you're gonna decide if you're gonna build a house or buy an apartment. But in the beginning, it is better to rent a dwelling, not want to get involved, not with a loan if you get one at all, and young families do not get a loan at the beginning, or with other obligations. It is not extraordinary that we have this need in Estonia, rather it is extraordinary that the state has not dealt with it for 25 years. When it comes to the program, it has to be said that Riigi Kinnisvara AS is not relevant, of course, this is the kind of program that will be dealt with by KredEx. It is a similar program as the KredEx apartment building insulation program, only the difference between the so-called support given to housing associations to heat up their apartment building. This programme provides support to municipalities. The municipality must add at least 50% of the amount of this support measure itself. So at least 50% is the money that puts in the municipality, but depending on the region, it could be more. This depends on the size of the market failure. Later, the municipality becomes the owner of this apartment building and will rent it out. In rural areas we are talking about renting at market price, or the municipality actually gets its money back, because people pay rent, they also pay for indoor heating and electricity, etc. These are not typical social housing in this sense. In the cities, we're talking about the other way around a market failure. It is not about building apartment buildings, it is about the prices of apartments being too high. If a person with an income of about 700 euros, for example, has to pay 550 euros for a two-room apartment in winter, I do not know how he can handle the other 150 euros. The solution would be to move to Finland and live there in a municipal apartment. I think it's cheaper for the country if people stay here, bet here and do it here. Let me give you another example. There's a big investment coming up near Pärnu. Forest Group OÜ invests and creates 200 new jobs. It's a plywood plant, they deserve wood there. When making the investment decision, they considered it to be a very important aspect that the local government, or the municipality of Sauga, has said that they are ready to participate in this programme and build an apartment building there so that people can move there because there is not so much labour on the ground. I would also like to mention, for example, that Omniva has decided to take jobs out of Tallinn also need to be taken out of here, to Põltsamaa and Paide in both about 30 jobs. If you go now to Põltsamaa or Paide real estate portal and see how many rental apartments there are, it turns out that in both places about two. That was about a week ago. Where will these people live, where will this labour be taken from? Or are they going to commute, drive from Tallinn, and leave the children and families here? In fact, the idea of removing jobs is to create a living environment, have families in the area, have children there to go to school and kindergarten, as well as to work for their spouses. The same theme for rental homes is like seed so that this region can even recover and more people come. If they're already settled there, if they like it there, but they need a bigger apartment because the family is growing, then they're ready to buy something, build or buy something. Eventually, everyone wins. This is broadly the idea and idea of building rental homes. I stress once again that this is not a unique idea; it is not a bicycle that we have invented in Estonia. On the contrary, what is unique is that we have not dealt with it so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U153	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U154	Madam Minister! I didn't know what you were talking about. The conference student gets higher than average, spends more, goes past restaurants. At the same time, we know what PhD's salaries are. I am the average conference visitor, and I am saying that if you live from project money to project money, you are actually talking about an average income or a slightly lower one in economic terms. That's what we're convinced of right now, talking about PhD students. A meeting of NATO Foreign Ministers has been held in Estonia, the UN Oil shale Symposium in 1968, etc. One more thing: I can't imagine if you'd like to go to a conference with a thousand people in the hall. I'm sure it's already a show, a concert or anything. The conference, where there are over 200 people in the hall, will cease to be of spiritual interest. This is my understanding, which has evolved from dozens of conferences, the last time I was in a worldwide symposium, a philosophy congress. Would you please describe how you imagine a conference, then I understand what this conference tourism is?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U155	Good questioner! I think as many people as there are, there are so many opinions. But when I'm talking about conference tourism, I'm talking about how much money a conference tourist leaves in the country more than a regular tourist. I rely on international research and analysis, including what I mentioned earlier. It's available. I can send it to you. I am certainly not talking about my emotions or feelings here, but about the need that has not been fulfilled in the Estonian market. Estonian conference organisers, as well as the Association of Tourist Companies, I repeat, have been asking the state for help and intervention in a good way for years. I've been to a lot of international conferences, too. There's a variety of them. Major corporations do such fun-conferences, among other things, but what we have against is having more fun conferences that sometimes do more serious work in groups, and maybe there's some kind of fun or team building in the big hall, as they say. But you said something else. Oh, yeah, you were talking about doctoral grants. Once again, ladies and gentlemen and friends, nothing will be taken away, but more will be given. The doctoral allowance will increase once and for all, not by 5% or 10%, but by half. It hasn't happened in a long time. So once again, more will be given, not taken away. You're trying to put it in another sauce. Let us not forget, however, that the sums are actually increasing and over a lot of time and very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U156	Dear Igor Gräzin! In the case of inquiries, an oral question can be put to the addressee of the inquiry, but it is possible to participate in the negotiations. Minister, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U157	Good madam minister! Presents! Let's just point out a meaningful semantic question. Why is this conference important? Because 'conference tourism' is one of the operative words behind which we perceive the wrong content. It seemed to the lady here that I was talking about impressions or emotions. [[Pointing his hand at U. Palo.]] Oh, my God, what emotions! A year and a half ago, there was a worldwide Congress of Visual Miotics, which is still a little bit cooler than a little conference. There was a collection together, say, an elite of visual MIT, etc., young aspirants, one more talented than the other. How many were there? That's right, 500! The plenary sessions were one, there were 500 participants, and the final session was left with the 100 who had not scattered anywhere. The work took place in rooms of 60, 70 or 80 people. We heard that our doctoral students are getting a lot of money, but you see, it's not enough for us to roast in restaurants in Tallinn where the steak costs 24 euros. Please tell me what the doctoral student's income must be or what the doctoral student's income, as far as I'm concerned, is the senior researcher's. You've seen a $1.5 million project take a scientist away from us because a scientist, a lead scientist, can get 550 here. And now he's going to impress the restaurant in Tallinn, I mean, with this tough shish-bread that he's paying 25 euros for! It's not an impression. I can't tell you now, but I've had congresses and conferences... Well, 15 doesn't come up, but it's still not under ten. They have been in Singapore and anywhere, with one of the most wonderful being in the Bahamas in Nassau, in a room next to a pre-Soviet repair station AegViidu railway station is a palace. But it was one of the coolest conferences or congresses. A real congress or conference isn't a business trip. If we want to make a place like this from Tallinn City Hall, it was said that corporations drink, eat, leave money, etc., then we are talking about it as a entertainment centre. Then we'll start treating it differently. When it comes to a profitable amusement center, One Direction and Michael Jackson, some corporation, Ernst & Young, right, why not win the property. In short, you have to weld the money in there, but you don't have to give it to me. If we want to give this money there, we need to know that we will raise the prestige of Estonia as a center of spiritual life. What did Yuri Lotman fail to do? What could Yuri Mikhailovich have done in the city hall? All right, close your eyes, creepy! He wouldn't have gone near it either. Well, thank you. I just wanted to make it clear that I don't have any impressions, I have facts. I've been in the scientific conference since 1981 and 1992, I've been talking about facts. I will also tell everyone who is interested in this topic that on 2 February 2017 The conclusion is that the bulldozer is a real, prospective and forward-looking solution to this problem. Can't live last night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U158	There's no more calls. The Minister, too, does not want a word. The third question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U159	Enquiry submitted on 2 May by Riigikogu member Igor Gräzini about the express train stop in Tabivere. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U160	Madam Minister! I'm going to talk a little emotional sometimes, but there's no way this thing is personal, because the Minister stumbled on this thing when the mess was already screwed up, and he's not guilty of anything. So, I'll start from a distance. There is a small station called Tabivere, which is located between Jõgeva and Tartu. Trains sometimes stop there, more often don't stop, means express trains pass by. It's a very long story. There's not enough five minutes for that. The problem is up, like I said, a long time ago. Long time ago! Aivar Kokk inherited this problem, and not when he left the country governor's seat, but when he went there. It's a bearded story, which is so much. The essence of the problem, however, is that. There is an ideological aspect here that we should be talking about, and I will come to that later. But right now, I'm specifically asking what happened to that express. After all the attempts to find a rational explanation, Tabivere's leaders came to the Riigikogu and we sat down here with two committees. These committees were the Committee on Rural Affairs, chaired by Helir-Valdor Seeder, and the Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Aivar Kokk. Then there sat the parishmen, and there sat Elron, whose trains passed by. [[Shows who was sitting where with the gestures.]] What are we gonna do? One moment there was a compromise. You know, let's just make this train stop there for two or three months, as planned, and then we come back together again and we'll come to a conclusion. Are the parishers bullying or is the Estonian state bullying? I thought it was the state. The state thought the parish men were gonna bully me. But, well, there was a compromise. So the Chef and Seeder, Elron's man, even two, and two committees sat there. [[Shows his speech with gestures.]] I take it all back, almost even apologize, incredible. (Puts your hands on your chest, then covers your face with your hands.) Now it's okay, now there's a friendship in the house and that's what we're gonna do! Time is ticking. Experiment isn't starting. It's going to be a while, the experiment still doesn't start. (Imitates clock ticking using gestures) I will ask the Minister what date will the experiment that we agreed on, on which there is a protocol decision, we have shook hands, disbanded hands, etc. (Picks the paper pages on the stand, mimics the underline of the text with the finger, and taps the paper with the finger.) And what did I get in response? Look, they've been going somewhere together again, and they've decided something different. In short, the parish has been retraced with this state's position and no experiment will come. [[Shows his speech with gestures.]] I mean, look what's going on here. [[He's flashing his finger.]] Two committees, one led by Seeder and the other by the Coke, sit here. (Rocks up two fingers.) Gräzin's holding back, the deal's been made. And now we're the guarantors of this deal instead of Elron's board. We're not filling it! Everything! In other words, the national railway administration decides. (Puts his hands in his pocket, puts his chest in front of him) Parliament is a place of bullshit, and we do not respect any promises made in front of you, and that will continue to be the case. I'm saying official insubordination is the first step towards treason. [[He's flashing his finger.]] Note, however, the same railway gang, all together, are the ones who are now telling us about Rail Baltic as an eternally honest thing. There were two committees here and there was an official's word of honour. (Kicks against the remote control) And now I'm getting the answer that the Ministry thought it was inappropriate. How can the Ministry consider anything impractical? The deal was made here. (Shows with his hand towards the hall.) This is where this whole set of questions I'm gonna ask you. Do we consider it normal in the future that the authority does not keep any promises at all? Will promises to the Estonian Parliament not cost anything at all? In fact, the funniest thing is that they're actually lying to their own minister. They don't respect us, we're used to it, but now they don't respect their own minister either! [[Shows a speech with gestures.]] And this is the company that wants to build Rail Baltic, based on honesty! The questions are here. I hope that the Minister will respond, we will have a longer discussion, etc. As they say, the night is still young, it's starting.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U161	Seven questions must be answered by Minister Kadri Simson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U162	Dear Enn Frontland! Dear Igor Gräzin! Even though you introduced an inquiry, saying that it is nothing personal, allow me to begin very personally. Congratulations on the beach row! [[???Igor Gräzin saalist: 'Aitäh!'???]] And if you do any more personal extensions, I'll say that Rannar Raantse, a member of the parish council standing for Tabivere's stop, is my classmate, so I have a full understanding of these efforts. Now I come to the questions. To understand what the debate is about, I will also read the questions of the inquisitor. I would also say that the question was preceded by a written question, which I have also answered. The first question: 'Do you consider it appropriate to run a state-owned company by a management board who considers it possible to give up the word he has given in Parliament? " To understand the question, we had to look up its history. This was that a joint meeting of the Economic Commission and the Rural Affairs Committee took place on 14 March including the meeting of the Estonian Line Trains of AS with the drivers in the framework of the first item on the agenda. This was based on the appeal of Tabivere Municipality Government to Riigikogu committees. This meeting is very nicely and thoroughly recorded. The debate on this item will be closed by a summary of Mr Ossip, president of the Elron Board. In the minutes, we will read his opinion that together with representatives of Tabivere rural municipality, targets will be set as to what customer needs they should meet and a compromise will be sought to move forward. I've checked if Elron has acted as promised. It really is. The representatives of Tabivere Municipality met on 28 April and discussed possible compromises that would ensure the necessary connections for Tabivere residents. This meeting of 28 April was attended by Andrus Ossip, member of the board, Riho Seppar and development manager Ronnie Congo, and Tarmo Raudsepp and Rannar Raantse, the Mayor of Tabivere, represented in the municipality. The meeting focused on what the problem must be solved and what the driving times and directions of trains could be. It was acknowledged that current timetables do not allow trains to travel well enough in the direction of the River, especially in the morning with regard to those who go to work at 8:00 a.m. At the same time, passengers can use the Arilix OÜ bus, which leaves Tabivere at 7:32 p.m. and arrives at Jõgeva at exactly 8 p.m. To date, I have received reports that the 318 route, which will be available in the morning from Tabivere to Jõgeva, uses on average less than three persons per trip. The second question: 'Do you also take the view that the compromise drawn up by Mr A. Koka, President of the Economic Commission, in the sitting of the two committees of the Riigikogu and in the presence of Elron's leaders, is not binding on the executive? ' Executive power is based on laws adopted by the Riigikogu and other relevant legislation. When we are talking about rail connection, we must first proceed from the 'Transport development plan for the years 2014 to 2020' approved by the Riigikogu on 19 February 2014. At the time, 57 members of the Riigikogu, you, Igor Gräzin, voted in favour of it among them. I voted against, but I did not vote against because there were not many correct ideas, but because this document reduced the use of fuel excise revenue for the benefit of the roads. In the transport development plan, which also contains some good things, action 5.1 "Development of national public transport connections'. Nobody's changed it. It sets out, among other things, the following: 'Since 2014, a tighter and faster schedule will be introduced with a view to reducing the time-space distance between larger centres, providing convenient mobility and reducing the share of car use. The timetable will be further tightened as the number of passengers increases. Train traffic shall be developed on the basis of the principle that a service is provided in an existing service island if it is possible to achieve faster connections than road transport. It is organised on the basis of a public service contract and is supported by the aim of reducing time-space distances which cannot be achieved to the same extent as bus and coach transport. Investment in infrastructure will be continued to ensure speeds of 120 km/h and in some cases up to 140 km/h. " Indeed, by making large infrastructure investments, we found millions more to increase the speed of trains between Tallinn and Tartu to 135 kilometres per hour. But adding new stops to the express train of Tartu is not in accordance with the principles set out in the transport development plan that time-space distances between larger centres must be reduced. Regular trains meeting the transport needs of smaller centres and other stops. I will now make a comparison of what it means for the Tartians to travel to Tallinn either by regular train or by express train: the tavarong runs for 2 hours and 34 minutes and the express train for 2 hours and 6 minutes. The same is true when the Tallinners move to Tartu. Secondly, pursuant to § 19 (1) of the Public Transport Act, regular services are organised by the competent authority on the basis of a public service contract. For passenger transport in rail traffic, this is the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. But in Jõgeva County, as in all other counties, the train is not the only means of transport, but there is also a pretty efficient county bus system. I've been to the Jõgeva Public Transport Center. They're familiar with Tabivere's wish to get their people to work in the morning. Bus and coach transport will certainly become more popular than three people per morning journey when, next year, the county public transport will be free of charge. The third question: 'Do you take the view that the agreement between the local government and the managers of the state-owned company (which the parties interpret differently) is competent to change the will of directly elected parliamentarians? ' An agreement which the parties interpret differently is a complex agreement. However, as has already been answered to the previous question, the competent authority is the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications for the regular service performed under the public service contract. Fourthly, do you take the view that the regional efficiency of rail is measured by the number of people and journeys? The so-called demand (which is not a regional political category) rather than the well-being of people? ' Regional policy is certainly important. If regional policy were not important, we would not be working at the moment to find additional resources to tighten the county lines and give rural people the same opportunities as the residents of Tallinn. But we cannot only talk about the regional efficiency of the railway, we must also talk about the regional efficiency of the transport system. Inevitably, it is more sensible to arrange for some regional travel needs to be met by modes other than rail. Tabivere has sufficient regional transport connections to bus and coach traffic. It is also important to develop equal opportunities in different regions of Estonia. Between Tallinn and Tartu there are nine train pairs a day, nine trains in one direction and nine trains in the other direction, of which five trains stop at Tabivere in Tartu direction and four trains stop at Tallinn direction. At the same time, only three train pairs are heading towards Narva, with only two train pairs per day in the direction of Pärnu for most of the year. Three and two trains stop in Narva and Pärnu, among the largest cities in Estonia, while four and five stop in Tabivere. We believe that today, it is more possible to meet passengers' additional travel needs by bus and coach transport, because its driving times and directions can be made more flexible to suit the needs of Tabivere municipality. 4a, check question: 'Do you see the difference between micro and macroeconomics? ' Dear Igor Gräzin, I do not really understand how this issue relates to the inclusion of Tabivere's stop on express trains. [[I. Gräzini's appeal.]] Question 5: Do you consider it ethical to decide the effectiveness of the railway in the interests of the state as a whole and of people with the number of passengers? ' I strongly support rail transport. I think that more people should use trains and it is in the interests of the country as a whole to reduce the time-space distances, but we cannot guarantee transport opportunities for smaller places if we have to do so at the expense of larger centres. I would like to remind you once again that there are more stopping trains in Tabivere and there are more connections to Tallinn and Tartu than there are in Narva or Pärnu. Question 6: Does an Estonian person have value in the eyes of Elron's owner as a human being or only as an abstract 'demand' component? 'The transport system must take into account the needs of all people, offering reasonable solutions. The train is primarily intended for the simultaneous transport of many people over long distances and between large centres. At this same meeting, which Igor Gräzin referred to, at the joint meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs, the question was raised that people travelling in the direction of Viljandi, for example, would like the express train to make the connection between Viljandi and Tallinn faster. Trains cannot be the only solution to meet the mobility needs of people living in a smaller place. Other means of transport are also available for this purpose. The last question: 'Do you agree that the above-mentioned values are important in a situation where the decision on the construction of Rail Baltic is taken? ' I believe the respected inquisitor realized that Elron, who is responsible for the carrier's tasks, is not the state company that is building Rail Baltic. Rail Baltic operator hasn't been selected yet. We don't know if it's Elron who's gonna operate it in the future. But right now, it is certainly important to Elron that we have found additional resources to improve the existing railway infrastructure. This gives Elron the possibility to use the maximum speed they can speed for existing trains, but the current infrastructure does not allow it. So yes, I consider it very important that the Tartu line also receives additional investments in order to increase speed to 135 km/h. Thank you for your questioning.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U163	The first question is asked by Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U164	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You shouldn't bring Narva and Viljandi in here because it's about trains, not stops. Trains are what drives. Then make more trains for Narva as well. But the question is at Tabivere's station. Well, I got the feeling last night that the train stopped there because he was ten minutes late for the River. It's really a surprise that you didn't exactly tell me what was agreed. The words of the chef were still such that they would meet and over time try to explain how many passengers would come on there. I think we were talking about seven or eight, as was pointed out here in the case of the example of Kitseküla. If that number were to satisfy Elron, there would be a stop. There was a story about it that wasn't mentioned today. Then why isn't this happening? I look forward to explaining why we are not trying to do what was said in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U165	Thank you for your question. I can rely on the Commission's protocol, and that is what I am relying on. You said the train stopped in Tabivere yesterday. He really stopped there last night. He stopped there on schedule at 5:39 p.m. and at 7:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U166	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U167	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good minister! Here it was said that the transport system is a whole and it must also be effective in our country, so the alternatives must be looked at, this system must be rational. I agree that there are buses, ships and aircraft besides trains. But in the light of its efficiency, integrity and rationality, how does this pokazukha from Rice Family to Turbo appear, or this pokazukha at Pärnu Airport? This is, in my opinion, very costly for the taxpayer, not effective, does not take into account the whole or the alternatives, and is not rational. Maybe you'll tell me how that efficiency and integrity work out there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U168	Thank you. Just as the people of Tabivere or the people of Tartu have reason to expect that they will also be able to use rail transport. Based on the analyses, it makes sense to restore the Haapsalu railway, in the first phase to Turbon, this is the most cost-effective section, and in the next stage to Haapsalu. This is not pokazuha, the electric railroad provides additional opportunities for Läänemaa and is very welcome in this region. Now that we have to look at the transport connections as a whole. I see Urmas Kruuse and Krista Aru in this hall. I expect that many of the Tartians could travel between Tallinn and Tartu by train, because it is quite fast and very much safer than using the road. The distance between regular train and express train is 2 hours and 6 minutes or 2 hours and 34 minutes. We invest quite a lot of money to increase the speed of travel on the Tallinn Tartu railway and reach 1 hour and 50 minutes. All this investment is made to enable you to drive express trains, which do not lose regular trains. As I mentioned earlier, the people of Tabivere are in a happy state because there are more stops than anyone who travels towards Pärnu or Narva.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U169	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! I did not understand, however, who and when decided that the compromise of the two committees of the Riigikogu was not even tried in the way of an experiment, so that the final conclusions could be drawn.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U171	Dear Krista Aru! The committees drew up the minutes, but the minutes do not contain a decision. This compromise, which you are talking about, is not a recorded decision. So I can't say more here than there was an effective debate, which certainly led Elron's representatives to meet the representatives of the municipality and look for the best solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U172	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U173	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm a Westerner by myself, and I know that the rice family and the peat range is about seven kilometers. Now, if we build this railway seven kilometers by seven miles to Haapsalu and Rohuküla, it will take more than ten years. This is the first observation. Secondly, surely the few thousands of people who live directly along the route in these settlements are eagerly waiting for such a connection to be made. At the same time, I am still interested in economic estimates. You probably have them because you intend to extend this connection and talk about extending Haapsalun. At the same time, we know that there are over 10,000 people in Haapsalu, less than 25,000 people in Lääne County as a whole. Is it economically viable? You have recently announced that restoring the Lelle section on the Pärnu railway is not prospective.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U174	Thank you. First of all, I will answer the back part of the question. None of this is what I have reported about the Pärnu-Lelle railway section. I have merely stated that since no funding has been found in the section of Pärnu-Lelle so far, and no consensus was found that the section of Pärnu-Lelle will be renovated, and there is no financial cover for this work at the moment. As far as the construction of the Haapsalu railway is concerned, the plan is not really that we are building the first phase of a seven-kilometer and then we are going to extend it by parts. The next stage is from Turbish to Haapsalu. It must be part of the 2019 Coalition Agreement, which also provides funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U175	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U176	As we were talking about the protocol, the written text of the inquiry contains the following excerpt (Krista, note also!) 'Aivar Kokk summed up the debate and proposed, as a compromise, that representatives of Tabivere municipality and representatives of Elron agree on the following: to select one express train in both directions for three months and add Tabivere stop at a time when there could be more passengers. If the experiment justifies itself, it is right to demand that the train continue to stop in Tabivere. " How should this be interpreted? It's a direct quote from the protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U177	Following the agenda, the Commission discussed the items on which information was taken into account and the points on which decisions were taken. I'm sure you have the whole protocol. For example, in the debate on the next item, the Commission adopted a decision, which consists of four points and is clearly worded. It should be interpreted in such a way that the chairman of the committee formulates the decision, it is voted on, and that is the protocol decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U178	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U179	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable Minister! You mentioned that the people of Tabivere will probably get a better connection when there is free transport. I think there's three people riding a bus there right now, as you mentioned. It has been presented to the public that the number of passengers in Tallinn's public transport increased by just over 1% during this experiment. That means there's probably no more passengers around Tabivere, it's not statistically revealing. My question, however, is as follows. Elron claims that 12 to 13 people from the Kits stop arrive on the train in Tallinn, and 7 to 8 people in Tabivere. I dare say that the percentage of Tabbblood children entering the train is clearly several times higher than at the Kits station in Tallinn, not to mention that it is possible to move in Tallinn with a large number of modes of transport. Is that still fair to Tabbbloods?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U180	Yes, indeed, Elron says that in the middle comes from Tabivere or six people leave the train. We have regular trains. Tabivere's stop is not convertible into a Kitseküla stop, it's making express trains for regular trains. Of course, the people of Kaarepere, Rakke, Kiltsi and Lehtse also have the right to expect that they will be stopped when they are no longer an express train, but a train that will only provide transport connections in all railway premises. I believe that we will find a solution with the public transport centre in Jõgeva County, so that people who want to work in the morning can do so by bus. In any case, bus and coach transport will become more attractive from next year if it becomes more accessible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U181	Dear Minister, No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U182	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Can we have eight minutes now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U183	It's possible to get eight.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U184	Really? Okay. Very good!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U185	Will this time be up? Okay. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U186	Okay. Let us start with the most decisive question, which is also the most decisive answer: what is the difference between micro-economics and macro-economics? I'll say it again, Kadri! What is the difference between microeconomics and macroeconomics? That was the essence of the question. The difference is that macroeconomics operates with concepts such as 'demand','supply', 'passenger index' and other such macroeconomic indicators. Microeconomics starts with a company, a company, a community, he goes up to one person. It is not the question of what the curve of demand and supply is, but it is the question of how a person can drive. That's the difference of approach. Let's forget about Tabivere for a second. It's a name because nobody remembers the name Kami-Shiritaki Hokkaido. That's what we're talking about. Kami-Shiritakis Hokkaido has a girl with a violin and he's the reason they keep the train running, not the train running, but the train running. You can be pretty sure it's pure loss, but it's a matter of principle. In fact, this is also a question from Estonia: will the Estonian state remain or not? The Estonian state will remain if people live everywhere in Estonia, if there is even one smoke everywhere, one fire if we live everywhere and are ready to pick up a single-violin girl from Tabivere, even at ten times the price. The railway administration tells us how buses drive, etc. What do you care? Buses don't obey you. The bus travels where there is a profit, where you receive a subsidy, etc. The state has the railway and all this infrastructure. What links Tabivere and Rail Baltic? Indeed, these are like different things. But it's not. It's the same Ministry. In fact, it is the same set of people who are involved in global Rail Baltic planning where there is no human being. By the way, if anyone really cares about Pärnu, don't think about Pärnu, nor can Pärnu go any further than to the Polish border and from there to the thrush, because this railway is already like this. That is why it is important that we are not now formally based on the fact that there is no protocol decision and we are not making it, just the cook said and we agreed, but there is no need to do it. By the way, one more little question. Now imagine that the deal we're talking about wasn't there. Do you think I would've shut up? Well, then I would have kept arguing and I could have proved that I was right. But I shut up because there was a compromise, there was a solution. But now it turns out I was just fooled. And not only me, but also Kokka, from the same constituency. Chef and I have a lot to argue about, but this is one fight we have to fight together. Against who? Right! Against the Estonian state. Because the Estonian state does not have time to think about a person. By the way, this was about the development plan. That's what it is, you know, the way it is. Ossip came to tell us today. The development plan provides for a speed of 160 kilometres per hour, which has not been or has not been done to make it. Today we once again made sure that there is no smooth transition from South Estonia to Riga, which is foreseen in this development plan, either. I think that in a situation where the Riigikogu has to decide on relatively fatal issues from the point of view of infrastructure, territory and the survival of the Estonian state, we should ask ourselves whether one very substantive matter can really stand behind the fact that the people on the Commission simply shook hands, agreed and spread out in a spirit of peace, and then it turns out that they misunderstood. Is that enough? You know what I'm afraid of after tonight? That Rail Baltic will be welded to our head with some legally correct trick, and then it will be said that the Riigikogu voted for the other and that it was left unchecked. That's how you do it! I think that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and Elron have acted exactly as a proper European Union body, which is not linked to its own country, nation or territory, must do. I didn't think there was such a thing. Turns out it is. Do you remember this: "Remember Alamo"? 'Remember Alamo. 'I'd say, 'Remember Tabivere. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U187	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U188	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I'm not very excited about this Tabivere, unlike Igor and Raivo Põldalu, who is more involved in this region. But I am excited about the issue of rail traffic as a whole and, in this context, about restoring the railway connection with Haapsalu, of which I am a fundamental advocate. But I'd like to know the calculations, and I'd like to know the flow of passengers. Being a Westerner on one foot, I see this county literally dying out, and how this county, just as it has been shrinking all along in history, is now shrinking. Southern Western Estonia has already become part of Pärnumaa because of the administrative reform. North West, Nõva and all of this relates to Harjumaa and then to Tallinn. That is why I have such a pragmatic question: what is it going to cost and what is its return? Is this seven kilometres, the cost of which, if I am not fooled by my memory, 8 million euros, which is half the size of Tallinn? How many passengers will be there? Let's not just talk about rebuilding the railroad. By the way, this railroad is such a fun story. Why was a railway built in Haapsalu in its day? For a very simple reason: the tsar families and tsars went there to summer, to take mud baths. Otherwise, railroads would not have been built in this place during the Tsar Age, but since the tsars built it, it ticked until the beginning of the new Estonian era. Then it was decided, under the leadership of the IRL government, that if memory did not deceive me again, this railway would be so demolished that it would no longer make sense to restore it. Then the railroad was privatized and pulled up, and some men made millions of dollars off it. Now the Estonian state wants to restore it. That's a good idea, but still, I just need to do a little bit of math. If there are now some 23,000 people in Läänemaa, and a certain number of people living in the South West fall away, and there are about 10,000 people in Haapsalu, who will be driving on this railway? Bus traffic is currently just perfect between Haapsalu and Tallinn: an express bus leaves every hour, and I think that about every hour there will be a milk bus going in to Laitse, Turba, Cross, Paliverre and all the places on the road. It's very well organized. There is no problem if you want to get from Tallinn to Haapsalu or vice versa or to a larger settlement along its route. My question, to which I did not receive an answer (I fully understand that the Minister was not specifically prepared for this), is this: show us the calculations. Otherwise we will make one very simple conclusion: the allocation of 8 million for the restoration of the rice family-Turba railway section is Jaanus Kariladi's election propaganda money. We will draw that conclusion. Now it is up to you to disprove this conclusion and prove that the calculations and calculations prove otherwise, that it is a prospective railroad recovery, that there will be a movement of goods, that it will blow new life into Rohuküla port, and that all of this could happen. Be good, disprove our paranoid suspicions, and prove that Haapsalu-Tallinn railway line is not an infinite molok that absorbs taxpayers' money and actually serves only a handful of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U189	Raivo Põldaru next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U190	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! I had the feeling that I was already quite senile, but thank you very much to Igor, who read from the document the promise that was made at the joint meeting of our committees. However, there was no reply from the Minister as to why this matter had not been dealt with as agreed. Elron was talking about seven or eight people coming from or leaving Kitseküla. If this number of passengers was in Tabivere, it might have actually satisfied Elron. I really didn't specify what train I was waiting for last night, but since we were talking about express lines, I think the minister might have realized that I was expecting an express train too. The express train was late, it was supposed to be 19-19, but it exited the circuit at 19.30. I had the feeling that maybe it was already being tested, but staying in Tabivere was, of course, a very long time, usually not so long, or ten minutes in Tabivere. Or maybe the other feeling was that a lot of people came from Tabivere, and it took ten minutes to get on and off. But it still seems that the answers we hear in this Chamber are completely demagogic. If there's nothing to answer, they're trying to snap something. So that saying that in its time, the gray heads respect, the heads of expense, doesn't work in this hall. You could at least respect some kind of respect and not snap at the first words in your mind that the train stopped. Yeah, I could have said a few more morning times. Indeed, trains really stop there, slow trains, but we were talking about express trains. I was motivated by the fact that I did not really get the right answers. When I tried, as they say, to ask the content why what had been agreed did not happen, they tried to read a decision. Igor said he took it real slow. I did it too, thinking that this agreement would work and trying how many people in Tabivere would come to the express and how much it would take to stop, how much time it would take to stop, etc. The railroad's on the road, and the trains are late. As Elron's regular client, I receive several e-mails every day with a message of train delay. So now would be a good time to test it, because this infrastructure does not currently allow 120 kilometres per hour to travel on a full scale, and I don't think it's worth talking about 135 kilometres per hour. So the driving times that were set out are probably pretty good at this speed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U191	Next Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U192	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! Honourable Minister! The phrase 'Kitse stop' has become a legend in the short time we have been in this Chamber. Why did I want to mark it again? This, in my opinion, has to do with a few important nuances. Tabivere's people expressed their concern in the Commission, which was not only about whether the train would just stop and get to River faster. This concern was also linked to the fact that if these means of transport do not stop there at the frequency that they could do, because people need to get to work, the time for local people to get to work will be very long. At this time too, there is certainly a price and value that must be taken into account. If Elron has indeed decided that Kits' stop is necessary for us, but Tabivere's stop is not, although the numbers of people entering and leaving the train are almost the same, rather they are even in Tabivere's favor, then it is a serious place of consideration, maybe it still stopped there. The honourable minister mentioned that it was as if the Tartians were getting a very large advantage, because there are very many trains stopping there. This is, in my opinion, a couple of very important recitals that have been caused by life itself. There are just so many passengers on this line that even now people have to stand on the train during peak times, even though they have bought a full ticket and would like to ride comfortably and sit. It is also known that there are plans to increase trains in the east and other directions, based on the fact that people can drive normally. The honourable minister calls this government a delo that we can start driving at a higher speed in this direction. It's not really like that. We all know very well that when it was discussed where the international high-speed train could go, either through Pärnu or through Tartu, the reason why it was decided that the high-speed train would pass through Pärnu was related to the increase in the speed of trains in the direction of Tartu and Valga, and this is the accompanying project. If it cannot be implemented, there will be a whole new situation compared to what was discussed, talking about the national plan 'Estonia 2030+'. The members of the Commission who attended this joint session realised that the opportunity would be given to carry out a certain pragmatic experiment to test whether or not people had a need for mobility. I think we could do that. It is also possible to make new decisions based on the outcome of this experiment. I very much hope that the Honorable Minister will use his office positively, based on the interests of the people living in South Estonia and Tabivere to conduct this experiment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U193	Thank you. There's no more calls. Would the Minister like a final word? No, I don't. In that case, I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U194	The fifth question is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Martin Helme, Henn Põlleaasa, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeiti, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Silla on 4 May 2017 regarding the cost-benefit analysis of Rail Baltic Ernst & Young. I ask for the chair Martin Helme on behalf of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U195	Dear Deputy Speaker! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read about the questioning by members of our group about the cost-benefit analysis carried out by Ernst & Young, which we presented in May when the new cost-benefit analysis commissioned by Rail Baltic was published by Ernst & Young. It compares the profitability analyses carried out by AECOM in 2011 and by Ernst & Young in 2017 with those carried out by Rail Baltic. This comparison shows that railway construction has become more expensive, profitability has decreased, and there has been a significant increase in socio-economic revenues. Although Ernst & Young estimates that Rail Baltic could have a large number of socio-economic effects, they are not detailed enough. Or if there is, if we go into these details, we'll see that they're very wrong. In summary, Ernst & Young estimates the total socio-economic impact of EUR 4.58 billion. On the basis of this assessment, the project is in particular positive for these socio-economic effects of EUR 879 million. Now our questions. The study shows that even in the case of 85% of EU funding, the project will actually be loss-making. Why does the government ignore this fact and continue to push the project through? Secondly, it was previously said that the European Union is contributing 81% of the contracts for construction works, now this proportion has increased to 85%. Did the European Union become more generous in the meantime? In the cost-benefit analysis, the rate is assumed to be 85%, calculated as a financial necessity. The financial needs of the project are 94%, so the European Union contribution is 80% of the costs for which the grant rate is 85% for CEF contracts and 81% for works. Therefore, given the financial need, the European aid will only be 76% of the eligible costs. If European Union funding decreases, how much will the project lose and where will the money be taken to continue building the route? Does the Minister not consider that Ernst & Young's so-called socio-economic returns are tending and have a negative impact on the credibility of the study? Several experts have put forward enough arguments against Rail Baltic as planned. The last study also shows that the project is actually loss-making. Why is the government still continuing the project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U196	Thanks for asking me about this. The question must be answered by Mr Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U197	Good heirs! I am glad to be able to discuss this with you in the light of day, the last time it was a matter of deep nights. But the updated cost-benefit analysis of Rail Baltic was completed in April this year and was published on the website of RB Rail AS at the beginning of May. The analysis shows that Rail Baltic represents a profitable infrastructure investment for society as a whole. The project is profitable from a socio-economic point of view, as its economic benefits go beyond economic losses. The economic viability of the project depends on how the main benefits of the project are secured: speed of movement, environmental impacts and use of local labour and materials. The market analysis and traffic forecasts show the potential of Rail Baltic for both passenger and freight transport. The increase in the cost of Rail Baltic construction (AECOM study mentioned 4.8 billion, but Ernst & Young calculated 5.8 billion) is due to the increase in the physical volume of the investment object. Since, by the time the AECOM study was completed, there was no decision, for example, as to whether the railways between Kaunas and Vilnius were considered part of Rail Baltic, there was no need to rebuild the Kaunas and Vilnius railway station, there was no plan to connect Riga airport to the Rail Baltic route and there was no decision yet on the Tallinn tram project, these things could not be taken into account in this work. However, they are taken into account in Ernst & Young's analysis. In Ernst & Young's analysis, the investment data has been updated on the basis of the objects covered by Rail Baltic. As the Ernst & Young analysis shows, the discounted value of the net socio-economic revenues over the period considered, i.e. 30 years after the introduction of the railway, is around EUR 4,58 billion and the net present value is EUR 879 million. This is precisely the reason to argue that Rail Baltic is a profitable investment for society. Now, however, I will answer specifically the questions that Martin Helme has already read kindly. The first question: 'The study shows that even in the case of 85% of EU funding, the project will be loss-making. Why has this fact been ignored by the government? In addition to the financial analysis of the investment, it is important to look at the socio-economic benefits and costs of infrastructure projects financed from public funds. All major infrastructure objects, be they roads, bridges, railways or the construction or expansion of a water network, must meet broader objectives than the direct financial revenues generated by infrastructure. For objects financed by the European Commission, such analyses shall be carried out in accordance with a methodology established by the Commission. In the event of a direct, high and rapid financial return, the infrastructure would be set up by private companies wishing to make a quick return on the money invested in the infrastructure. If entrepreneurs are not ready to do so, the state must take part. However, in the case of strategic investments, the European Union has created an opportunity to benefit from support for the construction of infrastructure. It is important for the country that people living in peripheral areas also have a permanent link with the rest of the country, and it is important for Europe that peoples living in peripheral areas have a permanent link to the core of Europe. To put it simply, both state and European Union support requires that a private operator is not prepared to finance such projects. In the case of infrastructure, it is important that the owner is able to maintain it in such a condition that the built road or rail is used for its intended purpose. Essentially, this means that sufficient resources are planned to maintain the object while it is being used. This is the case for all infrastructure sites. In the case of state roads, maintenance funds come directly from the state budget each year. We use tax revenues to do this, and indirectly all Estonian taxpayers pay for the maintenance of the entire Estonian road network, even if they do not have their own car or even have a driving licence. But the railways offer a considerable alternative, as the charges for the use of railways are paid by both carriers of goods and passengers. This means that most of the costs are borne by the users of the infrastructure. In this sense, rail is financially even a more sensible investment for the state than for the road. The question claimed that Rail Baltic would be loss-making. If we follow this argument, we can also say that Tallinn's road is also loss-making, because we invest in the road, we maintain it, and in winter we have to do more slippery detachment on four lines than on two lines, but we do not sell tickets for road transport. But infrastructure has its socio-economic advantages, which is why the Estonian state invests there. However, the investment in infrastructure is not profitable for covering maintenance costs either. Neither road nor rail will be able to make a financial contribution to this public investment. But here comes the broader revenues, the ones that can simply be converted into money, but also those that can only be counted qualitatively. It is possible to recalculate the money, for example, in a timeless way. Rail Baltic makes it possible to move faster between Tallinn and Pärnu or Pärnu and Riga, but also to reduce the number and emissions of traffic accidents compared to competing modes of transport. Then there are qualitative effects that we do not recalculate in money, such as the increase in foreign investment due to better transport opportunities, the increase in the number of tourists. These qualitative effects have already come to light. Perhaps at the end of last week you noticed the new sovereign rating presented by Standard & Poor's in Estonia. Clearly, it also noted the infrastructure investments of the Estonian state, including rail investments, with great recognition. The above is therefore valid from the point of view of Rail Baltic as an infrastructure. However, when it comes to the financial efficiency of the project, it can be said that the results of the analysis show that the views of passenger and freight operators also come into play. From this point of view, Rail Baltic is profitable for companies. In the case of international passenger transport, it will be profitable from the fifth year following the start of the railway, and in the case of freight transport it will be profitable from the first year onwards. In the case of the infrastructure manager, it is possible to talk about the net profit from the sixth year after the introduction of the railway, i.e. from 2031 onwards. In the first five years, true, says this analysis, the volume of freight and passenger transport does not reach its potential, they are not yet optimal. As a result, the costs of maintenance will not be covered in the first five years and Rail Baltic will need additional resources, EUR 28 million for the three countries for a total of five years, or on average less than EUR 2 million per country per year. The second question: 'If it was said earlier that the EU would contribute 81% to the construction of contracts, but now the figure is 85%, did the EU become more generous in the meantime? ' I'm not going to read the calculation, which I think has been made by the authors of the inquiry, because Martin Helme has already done so. The calculation given in the question is incorrect. Rail Baltic's financial needs have been taken into account on the basis of the methodology established by the European Commission. Simply put, as stated in the explanatory memorandum to the draft Act on the ratification of the Rail Baltic Agreement, the calculation of the financial need for projects financed by the European Commission is carried out in such a way that net revenue is deducted from the costs of the project, which will remain after the maintenance costs have been covered by the user charges. Both AECOM and Ernst & Young's analysis has used 85%, the European Commission's maximum funding rate, but financial needs have changed. The lower financial need means, in a simpler way, that the financial profitability of the project has increased, due to the charging of transport. The higher funding gap resulting from the AECOM analysis has been replaced by a smaller one, which, for example, in the case of construction investment, also means a somewhat lower co-financing rate for the European Commission: instead of 81% of the current circa, it will now be 80%. In the case of the Rail Baltic part of Estonia, this represents an own contribution of EUR 269 million, with a total investment of EUR 1 billion 345 million. The aid intensity of 81% set out in the CEF agreements has already been taken into account in the financing gap and no further calculation is needed. The third question: 'If EU funding decreases, what will be the loss and where will the money be taken to continue the pipeline? 'Rail Baltic's profit or loss does not depend on the receipt or the amount of EU funds. At the same time, Ernst & Young's analysis points to the need to mobilise European Union resources to carry out the project. The involvement of EU funds in the construction of Rail Baltic, for which two financing agreements have been concluded so far, CEF1 and CEF2, are intended to support the financing of Rail Baltic as a socio-economically viable infrastructure investment. According to the European Commission's R&E methodology, only projects with a negative financial net present value but a positive economic net present value are eligible for Union support. The net present value of the project is the sum of discounted revenues and discounted costs over the lifetime of the project. A positive net present value means that the project generates a clean return. The financial analysis of Rail Baltic's profitability study shows that the projected financial net present value of the project is negative. The capital deficit, i.e. the financial need, is the proportion of the discounted investment costs of the project, which are not covered by the discounted revenues of the project and multiplied by the amount of eligible costs. The financial needs of the Rail Baltic project are 94.18%. The net present value of the investment does not depend on the source of financing the investment. The financial return on Rail Baltic's total investment is negative and the economic return is positive, regardless of the sources of financing the investment. As there is a time limit for replying, I will go to the next question. Question 4: "Don't you think that Ernst & Young's so-called socio-economic returns are tending and have a negative impact on the credibility of the study? ' Both the cost-benefit analysis of Rail Baltic prepared by Ernst & Young and the analysis carried out by AECOM, which preceded it in 2011, have been carried out in accordance with the methodology of the European Commission's cost-benefit analysis. The same methodology will also serve as a basis for planning other infrastructure investments financed by the European Union and for preparing requests for funding. On this basis, funding applications for road and rail projects financed by the Cohesion Fund or for water management projects have also been drawn up. Question 5: 'Different experts have put forward enough arguments against Rail Baltic as planned, and the latest study shows that the project is economically loss-making. Why does the government continue with the project despite everything? " As described in the previous replies, Rail Baltic is an economically profitable infrastructure investment, which is clear in the light of both the latest Ernst & Young analysis and the analysis carried out by AECOM. The direct cooperation between the three Baltic States, which also involves Finnish and Polish ministries in this area, is certainly a continuous process of cooperation. On the Estonian side, Rail Baltic Estonia OÜ, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Finance, as well as experts from outside, are involved in this process. In this context, it is important to explain why the European Union is financing the construction of Rail Baltic at all and what are the foundations of this funding in the context of the European transport network. The TEN-T trans-European transport network has been last defined by Regulation 1315 of the European Parliament and of the Council since 2013. The transport network consists of two levels, a comprehensive network and a core network, and several types of transport infrastructure, such as roads, railways, ports, airports, as well as inland waterways. The core network is not the same as the comprehensive network. In general terms, the TEN-T comprehensive network is defined as a trans-European transport network providing access to and connection to all regions of the Union, including remote regions and islands. The Regulation obliges Member States to make every effort to complete the comprehensive network by 2050 and to comply with the relevant provisions of the Regulation. Then there is the main network, which also includes Tallinn of Estonia.Pärnu was located 1435 mm wide railway, or Rail Baltic. It is located in this part of the transport network, which has the highest European added value and is a priority. It includes cross-border sections and must create missing links and connect final destinations. The objective is for us to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector by 60% compared to 1990 levels by 2050. Railways are undoubtedly a good helper. However, there is another objective that needs to be met 20 years earlier: the regulation sets out the obligations of Member States to make every effort to ensure that the core network is ready and complies with the relevant provisions of the regulation by the end of 2030. This year won't be too far. This is why we can say that the funding of Rail Baltic is a priority in the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U198	Thank you. There are many questions for a good waitress. First Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U199	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I'd like to pluck my hair on this story, because I don't understand how you can make a straight face talk like that out of your mouth. Ernst & Young's study has been wiped out and dusted. It shows us the same socio-economic return on the basis of some 1990s truck emissions, which have long since ceased to apply. That's where they're gonna miss the mileage. It tells us how trucks move onto trains, and nowhere has this happened. There is no indication of a place where cars would have moved on trains, on the contrary, train traffic is being replaced by road traffic in other parts of the world and also in Europe. If Estonian Air was not acceptable to the Estonian taxpayer and the government because it was constantly loss-making, can I ask that we refrain from talking about this socio-economic profit in the case of Rail Baltic? Economically, this is a billion-dollar loss, even if we believe Ernst & Young, but we do not really believe Ernst & Young. Can you admit to me that it's a billion-dollar loss?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U200	Thank you, Martin Helme! I understand you're in a situation where you don't believe anyone. However, as Minister for Economic Affairs, I believe in experts, I believe in infrastructure investments and I also believe that infrastructure projects will be supported in Europe once the necessary cost-benefit analyses have been carried out. This is not a methodology we have devised, but a European methodology that has been used for other infrastructure objects to determine socio-economic profitability. This Ernst & Young study shows that all the billion that we receive from the European Union will not be earned back as rail charges, but from the sixth year onwards rail charges will be such that rail maintenance and maintenance costs are covered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U201	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U202	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You commend the methodology, but this is not about methodology. The errors are due to the wrong bases that this methodology has. That's where the mistakes come from. After all, opponents point out examples that according to the current data they provide, this project would not be eligible at all at European Union level. They're threatening this thing, as they say, to go on and sue it. What do you think if such mistakes come out afterwards, how will this project and its funding go? This is about the wrong source data.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U203	Thank you. I will now try to respect the spending heads and think about your question with such a larger content. The source data has been obtained by a recognised research company; it is not an input from Estonia. What do we learn from this study? We get to know that it seems to me that you have reservations about this matter, that economic profitability and financial profitability are not the same. Economically, this project is profitable. If you don't mind, I'll come back to Martin Helme's criticism. He said he'd never heard of trucks crossing the railroad. Yes, what we are talking about is that goods carried by trucks on the road will be carried by freight trains on the railroad. It is obvious that one train can take 50 trucks out of the road. Martin, you're shaking your head. This does not mean that 50 cars are on the train, but it means goods that would otherwise be carried by 50 heavy goods vehicles on the road. On this basis, a socio-economic analysis of the study has also been carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U204	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U205	It was said here that we trust Ernst & Young very much. Yes, Ernst & Young is a company that is very related to Estonia. Namely, Ernst & Young is the company that came up with the Repo 105 scheme, thanks to which Lehman, led by Ernst & Young, blew up the sky and started the Estonian recession. So let's say Ernst & Young has contributed to the Estonian mausus in the most direct form. So these are the ones we trust now. However, I wanted to ask what might be the motivation for Ernst & Young's activities. They get money for this analysis, and so on, but let's talk about socio-cultural things, okay? Ernst is from there, Young is from another place. What interest, subjective motive would they have to do an analysis that would take into account, for example, the soul of an Estonian, after they had already welded the mass on us? Revenge?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U206	Thank you, Igor Gräzin, for a very interesting question. I'm sorry, I don't have an answer. I haven't met Ernst or Young, and I can't imagine their motivation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U207	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U208	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. All interested parties, as well as the Minister, have access to our local and not only local, but also a bit more distant experts, logistics, businessmen, etc., which completely spray the results of Ernst & Young's study. We used to talk about how skewed AECOM was. That's when they tried to rub it in at AECOM's face all the time. In fact, all sane people who have no personal interests, political ambitions or anything like that have realised (you referred to local materials) that this is a destructive project for Estonia and the Estonian people. Destructive! Today I saw another 222 signed letters, and the signatories are mostly well known and highly respected cultural, public and political figures in Estonia. They ask members of the Riigikogu not to ratify the Rail Baltic Treaty. So, what do you say to these people when you look them in the eye? That they're idiots, but you're smart? Don't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U209	Thank you. I would never use such an expression for any respected or unrespected person, which would be inappropriate. What can I say about poets, writers and scientists? My deepest respect! When we talk about an infrastructure object, there are a number of people who are indisputable authorities, for example because they have been active in this area for decades. I remember Tiit Vähi, who was able to meet with me at the reopened Transit Committee and who also expressed a very positive view of Rail Baltic, saying that it will boost the Estonian economy. Raivo Vare has called himself the enthusiast of Rail Baltic. So there are plenty of entrepreneurs in this area, and I only mentioned the first ones to come to mind, who consider it not to be a new European track gauge, not the end of the existing infrastructure, but a new opportunity and a new engine for growth. I also consider this rapid connection to Europe to be a possible growth engine.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U210	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U211	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Listening to what you're saying, my head's gonna explode because it's either a useful idiotism or a deliberate theft, because only six months ago, you spoke the other way around and proved with us that this is a very expensive project. You gave an example of Tiit Vähi. Indeed, he is united by the Centre Party and by the fact that he has always stressed the need for a very good relationship with Russia. This project also directly serves the economic interests of the Russians and Tiit Vähi. So there is no reason to look far, you have a cooperation agreement with the United Russia, so you know whose interests you serve. Speaking of belief, you can believe anyone, but I look at the facts. For example, the impact of rail on climate change has been shown here eight times less than the source actually stated. Those are the facts. I don't want to believe anything here. So there's no point in coming here to tell me that Martin Helme doesn't believe anything. He again proceeds from this study, which is completely full of lies. But it's empty. Just answer one question. Estonia's expenditure should be 268 million euros. What is the source of the cover? Where does the money come from, do we borrow or optimize the state budget? Where's the money coming from, 268 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U212	Thank you. Dear Jaak Madison, you are a young person, but you have so much bitterness and rudeness, you have a bad nursery, and you also have a pike memory. I, unlike you, belonged to the previous Riigikogu. I was the vice president of the Rail Baltic Support Team. As a result of our work we received two local stops in addition to Tallinn: Rapla and Pärnu. So your head will explode because of your own internal boiling, not because of the minister's answers. Where does the Estonian co-financing money come from for a European project with which we receive a billion European funds? The same place where the money has come from so far for infrastructure investments. By the way, it is important to bear in mind that if we didn't build Rail Baltic and we wanted to build 2 + 2 Tallinna
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U213	I call on both the questioners and the respondents to remain within the limits of courtesy and to respect this hall and all those in this Chamber. Next, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U214	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! In the scientific world, it is clear that if some kind of study or analysis is based on false source data, it will inevitably cause him to doubt. In the worst case scenario, this study will be discarded, disqualified. However, my question still concerns this socio-economic impact. Would you like to open up a little bit more of that $4.58 billion, which is well marked in the CBA?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U215	Thank you for your question. Indeed, large infrastructure objects generate revenue that cannot be planned directly in the state budget, so-called 'financial resources', but it is a victory for society, a victory for the economy. Some of these victories can be converted into monetary currency. It's the easiest of them, isn't it? It's time we won. Fast connections undoubtedly bring cities closer to each other. Another thing is road safety, because rail is safer than road. The reduction in fatal and serious road accidents is one of our goals. The third issue is the reduction of environmental damage. These are the winnings that can be converted into money. Then there are victories that we do not recalculate in money. We know that Rail Baltic has a positive impact on other sectors of the economy, both in its construction phase, because we expect that, to a large extent, railways and related infrastructure will be built by Estonian entrepreneurs, as well as by broadening the opportunities for entrepreneurs after the start-up of the railway. European experience shows that a processing industry is being built in an area with a high-speed rail link. That's a fact. The provision of logistics services and the supply of components to this industry also generate revenue. As a result, this is the basis for socio-economic victory.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U216	Next up, Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U217	Thank you. You said you believed in Rail Baltic. Unfortunately, it is not a matter of faith. The position of the National Audit Office was presented to the Special Committee on Audit of the National Budget. It says that there has been no draft submitted to the Riigikogu to answer the question of how much responsibility the state is committed, and the information provided is controversial and does not meet the norm technical requirements. Various analyses have shown that large infrastructure projects are becoming more expensive and time-consuming than expected. The European Court of Auditors' report confirms that projects are becoming more expensive. In the case of austerity, it must be reported that the project will gradually become more expensive, with any new work that will be accepted. If the procurement or the construction contract becomes more expensive, the funding will not increase and the state will have to pay for the taxpayer's money from its state budget. Estonia does not organise many major procurements. The question therefore arises as to who has the right to accept a more expensive procurement than envisaged. Is it RB Rail AS, which is located in Latvia and is subject to Latvian law, by Rail Baltic OÜ, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications or the Riigikogu? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] If the Riigikogu, then...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U218	Honourable questioner, your time has already exceeded in more than ten seconds. I'm asking for an answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U219	Thank you. This issue, as well as the analysis and proposal of the National Audit Office, has been discussed very thoroughly by the Economic Committee, as far as I know. He has come to the understanding that ratification must have confidence that all expenditure relating to Rail Baltic will only be made from the state budget and no co-financing costs will come from anywhere else. The state budget is a document adopted by the Riigikogu. That's the guarantee. Co-financing money or Estonia's own contribution comes from the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U220	Well, the Hatter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U221	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I read from Ernst & Young's short version of the cost-benefit analysis that Estonia will face losses of EUR 4 billion over 30 years. In your reply today, you claimed that Rail Baltic is a service provided by the state. The National Audit Office has said on several occasions that this is not a public service. This is not, for example, a social service that belongs to public services. Would you like to explain what your view is that this is a public service? What are the laws for which it is a public service?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U222	It is not, in my view, a private operator's responsibility to have a proper infrastructure that guarantees operators the ability to operate and transport goods, but also to have a good and fast connection. In our relatively small country, a private operator would not make these investments. Without such investments, we will simply remain a peripheral area with bad connections, on which foreign investors say there is something very serious missing, and that is why they will not come here. I come back to the Standard & Poor's analysis, which said that the fact that we are making major rail investments will help bring us closer to our Nordic neighbours and will certainly ensure long-term economic growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U223	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U224	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question does not directly concern the cost-benefit analysis, but the second half of this issue. Rail Baltic route passes through many homes and lands of many families. This project also has a very strong psychosocial impact on these families. They lose their land and their home, perhaps the farmland that was already owned by their ancestors. What's the state of it now? How many parcels is the problem still unsolved? Is it true what has been said that the money paid to these families for the transfer of land is not fair? How do you view it, and do you view it as just?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U225	It is true, however, that for new infrastructure sites no route corridors have been booked in history. This is the case for both road and rail. Consider, for example, the need to build a four-line road to get out of Pärnu. This section alone concerns more families than Rail Baltic, whose route directly affects two buildings. What have we done? On the initiative of the Land Administration, we are trying to dispose of these lands in such a way that they can receive more support (there are 650 such parcels in total) and if the route divides the lands of one owner, we are trying to ensure that the exchange of land takes as little time as possible and is reasonable. It is also possible to replant these lands in such a way that the land that lies on the other side of the line is given, for example, state land, so that in the future the plot will remain in one piece, on one side of the railway.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U226	Uno Kaskpeit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U227	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! I have a few years of experience in being in the Riigikogu, and I have understood that, don't take it personally, it's a general observation that when a person becomes a minister, he's going to have problems understanding the question he's asked. You were asked very clearly before where the cover would come from to EUR 268 million. You guys started talking about not building a highway with that money. I still want to get an answer to the question Madison asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U228	Dear Uno Kaskpeit! I don't take it personally at all, absolutely not. I understand you're against this project and it doesn't matter what I say, you're still against it. That is why I will do my best, but I will not take it personally if you still oppose this project, because it is your job and your bread. Now, where the money comes from. The money comes from the state budget. I will try to tell you once again that in the state budget we can find money for both rail and road. I consider it very important that we also found money to improve the existing rail network. The previous question was about the Tartu route and it was said that the Tartu route needed to be invested. Money had not yet been found for this, but we provided money to increase speed through additional investments. Have you noticed the previous government's decision that Kose was built into a 2+2 highway? This section is 40 kilometres long and costs the Estonian state 170 million euros. 40 kilometers! It was up to us to find a cover for it in the state budget. True, almost every year there are 20 million planned gravel roads. This is not a very good solution, but you see, it was possible to build 40 kilometers for 170 million. I don't see anyone protesting that the sums allocated to the road to Tallinn have been written off, even though there will not even be any infrastructure charges coming from the railway. Yeah, what we're doing to make it less accidents and shorter distance in time is expensive. But we do it on the highway, we do it in the direction of Tartu and in the direction of Pärnu, we do it even in the direction of Haapsalu. Reasonably managing, if we do not make too many tax gifts, we will be able to guarantee it from the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U229	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U230	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Today it has not been said that Rail Baltic is a serious competitor in maritime transport. We know, for example, that no one is going to reload goods from Finland in Tallinn. This is going straight down the sea with maritime transport and maybe even cheaper than rail or road transport. It's kind of a competition, too. Do these calculations and analyses take this into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U231	Thank you. These estimates take account of the fact that maritime transport is a sensible way and remains one of the sensible ways in which goods can be moved. The trade flows of the last ten years have been taken as a basis. Only 10% has been taken in Estonian terms for the freight flow that goes to the railroad.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U232	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U233	You said so nicely where the money came from. I remembered that there was once a Priit Aimla in the Riigikogu, whose one of the most famous humores was about where children came from. But I don't think that's the question. The question is obviously that if there is European money, it must be stolen. It's like this basic motif right here. But your opponents aren't basically against being able to snatch away foreign money, even if it's done in a loss-making way. But they really want to express the basic idea that they wouldn't want to give more cents to this advance from their own pockets. That's the main argument. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U234	Dear George Adams! I'm sure you know a lot better than I do where the kids come from. But now about European money projects. Europe has money for the TEN-T road network. If we don't want it, it's the Italians, the Slovenians, the Germans and the Dutch. There are certainly countries in Europe that value large investments, and this money will not be missed. If we don't need it, others will be grateful.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U235	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions. Any requests? First call chair, Igor Gräzini.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U236	Mr. Chairman! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U237	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U238	I'm so sorry, but the Rail Baltic slogan deserves to be repeated. This slogan was formulated by Andrus Kivirähk on page 4: "You would eat shit if you could get free. " This is what is being built for. I'm going to settle a factual matter. Indeed, the money had been earmarked for the Tallinn road in Tartu and was foreseen by the previous government. But the very capitalist difference was that it had sources of cover. Check! The previous government didn't allow the budget deficit and didn't practice financial aquantitaries. That's what our former and today's opponents have to admit. Okay. Rail Baltic is coming. Why doesn't anyone talk about what Rail Baltic is taking away? I want to stress: Rail Baltic is taking money from the rest of the infrastructure. [[He's flashing his finger.]] Even today, pay attention, even today, is not able to perform such a thing as the national plan 'Estonia 2030+' provides. 100 miles an hour, where is it? There's no way we're going towards Riga. The gravel roads, as well as asphalt roads, are starting to disintegrate because of all our attention, political attention goes elsewhere. The parties will fight and win the party that says that Rail Baltic and I can milk the least. The question of not getting milked at all doesn't arise. Poor Alexander III, who's turning around in his grave right now! He thinks that among his subjects were idiots who pay for the railroad. The Estonian railway was built by von der Pahlen, the manor manor of Palmse, with a public limited company Estonian Railway, which 30 years later was sold to the state with a profit. Can you imagine a Baltic knighthood waiting for Europe to help them and receive government subsidies? Tutkit they got this subsidy. I didn't ask you for anything about this Ernst & Young. There's now, as they say, sloppy accounting, no it's kind of random so-called bookkeeping, that paper there-to-the-top, etc. Okay, it's being done. Then the question arises, but what motive does this person and this company really have? All the more so because Ernst & Young directly caused his behaviour to Lehman... well, this thing. This was the famous Repo 105 scheme, about which Andrew Cuomo said that the entire Ernst & Young board should go down, but it didn't go down like that. So, what's the motive? Is Ernst & Young thinking about Estonia just like that? Does Ernst & Young know how the sun sets in Antsla or what Lake Tamula looks like? Does he know what song Wulff-Õis has written? Neither Ernst nor Young, nor even the prosecutor, who wanted to put them away. We know that, but not Ernst & Young. We checked with the experts, didn't we, Ernst & Young, AECOM, who is, of course, on the verge of closing down. Very criminal company is this! Interestingly, however, neither Lotman, nor the conservationist, nor the semiotician, is Valdur Mikitat among the experts. Because these great European experts, and all those who think that we do not understand anything, are crossing our country. I mean, our Estonia is good enough for them to cross. But we're not worthy partners to talk politely to us. Today was a very bully moment at the Ministry of Rural Affairs. Fire, I'll tell you right now, the one who goes around the subject of Rail Baltic all the time. [[He's going through the paperwork.]] Kristjan Kaunissaare! I even have this paper here. (Shows the hall.) Well, here it is again. But there is also a very interesting scheme: project promoters and beneficiaries. (Whispering with hands.) You see, it says "beneficiaries," small. (Shows the hall.) We can show it to you later. The Ministry of Economic Affairs of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania has been shown as beneficiaries. Period. (Shows the document to the hall.) I'll let it go around. There are no other beneficiaries. The question, in other words, is now this. You could say "synergies" in a modern word, but if you use a simple word, that simple word is "homeland." Not synergy. Homeland. If we pull out of our homeland for them, for three ministries and for the European Union, go through a project like this and let the rest of Estonia go through the same Antsla, Poka, Ülenurme, god, Tabivere, and if our children ever wake up with this huge financial debt, which, by the way, as has been said here, will be discounted to the second name of the the theft, and the discount within the meaning of Ernst & Young is not a fair thing that the New York DA proved, can we go to sleep tonight? Are we talking about spending heads for our children and young people here, or have we not kept Estonia at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U239	Martin Helme next, please! I apologise to Martin Helme because, in fact, he should have been the first to speak as a representative of the inquisitives. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Aga pane nüüd seda kõvemini!'???]] Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U240	Apology accepted, it happens! I'd like to clear up the little upset that was in the meantime. I have to say that Kadri Simson, as Minister, is in very good shape, looks very good, and we are all very grateful that he is talking to us at this evening's hour. But I still can't accept what he said about the remote. No, we don't mind basically everything, we're not basically all disbelievers, just the talk that sounded from this remote control was so unconvincing. If we hear that we are building a railroad in Lithuania, which, by the way, is where the Lithuanian border ends, and so we get in touch with our northern neighbour, it is simply not serious. If we hear that Rail Baltic is needed because it is a fast connection to Europe, but we all know, leaving aside, that Estonia and Latvia are also Europe, that this railroad does not go beyond the Lithuanian-Poland border, this is not serious. If we hear that Rail Baltic is economically profitable, because the emissions are decreasing, and then we find out that the amount of exhaust gases that have been used as a basis for calculating profitability has been calculated on the basis of the 1990s standards, but now there are 25 times as stringent standards, this is not serious. If we hear that the reduction in the number of road fatalities, which should take place at about such a rate that we are dying half of every year on the road, is the measure of its profitability, it is not a serious issue either. This railroad does not reduce the number of road deaths so much, and it is pure speculation. We know that, elsewhere in Europe, goods have not moved from road to rail, just not. Ernst & Young can't prove it to us either, he just hopes it will happen. We are saying that profitability is due to the fact that perhaps someday Finns will join the project. It doesn't, it doesn't, it doesn't! We can't answer the question of where the money comes from. It was so sweet: money comes from the budget. Really? The money comes from the budget! But where does he get into the budget? Well, the left doesn't know that anymore. It's just coming from the budget! Just as the money came from the budget and went to Estonian Air, just as the money came from the budget and went to the Saaremaa barges. The money comes from the budget, only to get him into that budget, we need sugar tax, road tax and car tax, and all taxes we have here are asked for, packaging excise and other things. The money comes from the budget! We're talking about how this great expression was, in terms of time space, people win. In short, the traffic is starting to go faster. In terms of space-time, it is a much faster opportunity to get on a plane and travel from Tallinn to Berlin for 25 or 30 euros. The Rail Baltic ticket will never be cheaper than the plane ticket from Tallinn to Central Europe. We hear that Rail Baltic is going to get the money back by paying for it by carriers of goods and passengers. Dear people, for transporting passengers, the state pays subsidies, i.e. raising money from one pocket to another. But it's okay, money comes from the budget! So we do not know for many times whether it is difficult to say that, in purely economic terms, it is a billion-loss project. All that is said about it is the pula-mula, all this so-called socio-economic benefits, that we have birds and hedgehogs that can move more safely and that we then pollute less. We all know that these arguments are invented. We are talking about this project coming back in the sixth year because more people will be moving along Rail Baltic than they are now moving between St. Petersburg and Helsinki, even though they are many more popular cities than the cities that remain on this route. It is said that these trade flows, which are currently unable to move for some reason on two existing, north and south routes, will appear in the sixth year after the opening of the railroad with the magic wand of the Ministry and will make the railways profitable. I'm sorry! Our party was basically a proponent of the Rail Baltic project until we actually saw the project. Then we became categorically, absolutely against this project. As Igor Gräzin said, let's not take that money. Kadri Simson said that the Slovenians and the Bulgarians and all those who still want the money. Let the other shields take and pay themselves poor and stupid, let's not take the money because we don't have enough money to take the money and then keep up what we've done with the money. Not to mention the additional aspect that has been highlighted here in relation to nature conservation and the dismantling of people's private property and the annual maintenance of this project. We spoke in the debate on the previous inquiry that this project will take money from other subsidies for rail traffic, shipping and bus traffic, which will take money from promoting road traffic. We are once again told that with the money we put under Rail Baltic, we will not build the road to Tallinn Tartu. But we could also ask the European Union 75% or 85% of the amount of building the Tartu road, after all, if we wanted to, the funds would be there. Well, at least you could ask. That'd be a whole different amount of money. If we put together the amount of money that Rail Baltic will be built with, we will see that with this money we can build all four of our main highways in four rows up to the border. But we don't get that calculation here. I have to say again, despite all the respect that the talk I heard here was just so embarrassing, and this Ernst & Young study is just so embarrassing. This may convince people who do not understand anything and who can be presented with beautiful clants videos along a beautiful railroad through an arrow of nature from a speeding train. People who have the ability to think, read and compute cannot be made pro-Rail Baltic unless we all are also carrying personal benefits with our backs and arms. But we think it is a disaster project in general, for society as a whole and for the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U241	Mart Helme next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U242	President-in-Office of the Council. I understand, of course, Madam Secretary, that what we're talking about here is nonsense. You have a very important thing to do on that smartphone, and maybe what we're talking about is distracting you. I'm sorry to disturb you in your important ministry. And yet, you know what I was thinking sitting there in the chair of my humble vigilante? I was thinking about how railroads were built in America. This railroad passed through Indian lands, and Indians received large lila lands for old gunswhips, bourbon barrels, and blankets to build railways that destroyed those Indian tribes that had given up their estate under the drunken agreements of their wise chiefs. Of course, progress cannot be stopped, and the East and West coast of America had to be connected to the railroad. But, sorry, we don't live in the Wild West. We live in the Republic of Estonia, and we are an Estonian nation whose ancestors have lived here for 10,000 years, according to some reports. This is our country. And we are now seeing our own leaders, ministers and high officials of the ministries behaving to us like white merchants with drunken Indian chiefs. Madam Secretary! We're not drunken Indian chiefs, we can read. We can read analyses and not only Ernst & Young's analyses, but also other analyses. We can put two and two together, and we don't think that this sum is five, but we know for sure that it's four. Please, if you answer questions, don't think we're stupid! We're not stupid, we get it very well. One calculation, by the way, shows that if all the material that goes on the Rail Baltic route were to be put on trucks and line these trucks into one line, it would reach from here to South Africa for the Riigikogu. It's an insane collection of material that goes on this giant project. It ruins the Estonian people. We are going to build this railroad and then we are going to buy gravel, sand and rubble from somewhere in Finland and Russia, because we have exhausted our reserves. But you said we were building our own materials. We're building our own materials. You know, cheap costs double, and we're the cheap ones who are gonna pay for this lousy euro money generation after generation. By the way, we had an idea by listening to the answers to this question. We will remove from the land registers all transactions with land parcels on this planned route and see if there are politicians, their relatives, cousins, cow's babies, etc. What if it is? Maybe there's somebody's very low and vile personal gain back here. Maybe not. Maybe we're paranoid, but we think it's worth a bit of research, because there's got to be a worm in here. If it's obvious that blowing our teeth into certain circles is driving us crazy, there's gotta be some worm in here. Of course, it's kind of graphic how this whole project has been sold to us. At first, there was a scene of how we would travel quickly to Berlin. When it became apparent that there were no passenger flows, that they were simply not coming from anywhere, there was talk of trade flows. Then it turned out there were no trade flows either. I have a question for Tiit Vähi, who I respect as a businessman in general. But, dear Tiit, if this is such a good project, will you put your money in it? More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U243	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U244	We heard from the Minister that such projects are not financed by private investors. Well, why don't they finance if they're so useful? I would, if it were that I put the euro in there and get three against it. I think that would be pretty good. But somehow they don't finance, they don't want to join in. Consequently, they have also read the analysis and very clearly understood that it can be milked here, but only if they do not put their own resources in. And let the taxpayer of the Estonian state be this fool, the stupid Indian who lets himself be bought with a bottle of whiskey and an old shotgun! Tell him to put the money on, we'll drive that railroad, and we'll take our profits out of here, 'cause we haven't invested. There. There's nothing to talk about. Everything is actually clear without words: we are simply being blown into our teeth. Why do our own leaders, who should, in fact, baptize their teeth, stand up for the benefits of our people, for the strengthening of our country, for our security, do so? I can't tell. But the fact is, the fish rots, and this time, very clearly, out of the head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U245	Next, from the floor. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U246	Mr President of the sitting! Someone here raised the question whether the Ernst & Young and everyone behind these names might be stupid people. I don't think they're stupid people. What is more likely is that they are sloppy hardworking workers, fine pieceworkers who have been given the task they carry out and the reward they receive for it. If you suspect anything, it is likely that they are not very impartial in giving opinions. It is likely that a somewhat awkward situation has arisen here today because the government has changed. The new government is continuing the previous government programme, but has not paid attention to the fact that in the last about 12 years, a certain amount has been developed, I would say, echo. It is a technical method of this kind, which means that there are people who, every time the government says that he wants to do something, for selfish purposes, respond that yes, a wise government, that is exactly what needs to be done, and it is good that you pay us for that opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U247	There are no further requests to speak. Would the Minister like a final word? No, I don't. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U248	Now, ladies and gentlemen, we all have a good opportunity to participate in a free microphone. Speaking chair, Jüri Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U249	Mr President of the sitting! On Thursday, we had an item on the agenda in which Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, reported his annual review of what was happening in the judicial sphere, and I had the opportunity to speak on behalf of the group. I just wanted to talk about one more thing that didn't fit into the eight minutes I promised, so I'm just finishing my Thursday call. On Thursday, I came to the fact that I wanted to talk to the prisoners about a few other things that were connected. First, the possibility of education in Estonian prisons and second, the possibility of using the Internet in Estonian prisons. Mr Pikamäe did not report to us here what he has said at quite a number of other meetings. In recent years, one of the most disturbing phenomena in Estonian courts is that there have been a number of prisoners who amuse themselves by constantly complaining to the warden and then going to all the courts until the Supreme Court. The courts are obliged to discuss these complaints separately. The annual number of complaints of this kind is around 1 000. If we start to think about why these complaints are being filed, then one answer is certainly that these people are quite boring and do not have a reasonable application. The problem is not as much as it would be impossible to get a missing secondary school education. It's generally possible. But the question is whether a prison can acquire higher education and whether it can deal with all other educational matters. The possibility of using the Internet is currently minimal among prisoners in Estonia. It is limited in a rather primitive way, namely, a certain list has been established of the sites that prisoners may look at, the other pages they cannot look at. Once, it was much more free, but freedom on the Internet, of course, also brings with it a variety of new forms of abuse. However, these issues are quite closely linked, and the balance in Estonia is currently out of place on these issues. Finally, I call on the Riigikogu Committee on Legal Affairs, whose traditional field of work is this, to renegotiate these three topics in a complex way: how the use of the Internet should be organised in Estonian prisons, what education opportunities are there and how the energy of prisoners who produce meaningless but legally correct complaints could be better harnessed. I do not think that sensible solutions to the use of the Internet are likely to mean establishing any general rules that would apply in the same way to everyone. Rather, a flexible and individualised approach is needed here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-12_U250	There are no further requests to speak. Thanks, everybody! Our trial today is over. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 20:23 a.m.
