ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 38 members of the Riigikogu participate in Question Time of the Riigikogu. The Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Urve Palo, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology, and Mikhail Korb, Minister of Public Administration, are among the members of the government. Yesterday 12 requests came from members of the Riigikogu to ask a question. I will give the debate on each subject an opportunity to ask a very specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U2	The first question is put by Maris Lauri to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! The previous government repeatedly discussed how to make the pension system sustainable. On the last occasion, we have approved what you have also approved, namely that the retirement age should be linked to life expectancy and that retirement should be made flexible. At the same time, the government suggested that the Minister give the task of making thorough calculations of the various options and involving the various parties in the debate. Since it has been a long time since our government's discussion, I want to know whether, when you were discussing this issue, you were involved with the various parties. Did you have extensive calculations on your desk, and if so, can they be made public?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, first of all, thank you very much for the question you have asked. I'm starting over. I remember that when I had the opportunity to ask the Riigikogu to support me as Prime Minister, I said that all good ideas are welcome and I very much hope that the principle that the wrong man in Estonian politics must not do the right thing will disappear. I congratulate the previous government, government offices and ministers, because indeed, the retirement pension reform has been prepared for a very long time. As far as I know, the initial discussions and discussions started already early in 2015. I know that all social partners, as well as scientists, were involved. You're right, the previous cabinet discussed it, just as the new cabinet has discussed. It is equally important to us that the pension system is sustainable, as you said, not only tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, but also in 10, 20 and 30 years. Is there anyone else that's going to be involved? Of course, the final decision has not been submitted to the meeting of the Government of the Republic, to the Cabinet of the Government of the Republic or to the Riigikogu. It has been said that the draft law will be drawn up in the next year, by the first quarter of 2018. This time is certainly a very strong time for inclusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U5	Maris Lauri, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U6	Thank you. However, I hope that when these calculations come, they will be made public quickly so that there can be an argumentary discussion. The issue of pensions is still very painful and painful for both current and future pensioners. They have now been talked about and calmed down by those who are already retired, while much attention has not been paid to future pensioners. If changes have been made to the pension system in the past, then it has always been taken into account that there are no losers and that no one would feel taken away from him. This government decided to make changes to the first pillar, which take a considerable part of people's pensions away. As far as I can tell, it affects almost a quarter of people. I do not believe that the second pillar will compensate for this, because the second pillar is not all, and the second pillar has not worked very successfully so far. Why would you do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U7	Thank you. This, too, is a very important issue. First of all, what's the main goal? It is, in fact, that today, tomorrow and in the future, the state can afford to pay pensions and pay each person a pension that would guarantee a lifeable life. With this new system, we want people not to fall into a poverty trap if they retire. It's really, really important. It is true that the political desire is for pensions to become more solidarityable. You were talking about whether someone would lose or not. It is also a decision that we are reopening the second pillar, in this context we have been talking about the birth years 1970 to 1982. There has also been talk about the third pillar. These are, to a large extent, the pillars of the wage component. You asked for calculations. I'll tell you some. I would also like to say that it is not as if the system would change from tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but it is also proposed a transitional period for the years 2020 to 2036. The calculations are as follows: If a person currently earns a minimum wage, his first pillar pension in 2050 would be EUR 740. Under the new system, his pension will be EUR 1055 in 2050. Let's take another calculation. Under the current system, the average wage earner would receive a pension of EUR 1038 in 2050 and EUR 1227 under the new system. So it's safe to say that 80% of the circa, more precisely, 77% of people are going to get a higher pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U8	Aivar Sõerd, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U9	Honourable Chairman! Prime Minister! In 1999, a personalised calculation of social tax was introduced, and the amount of pension from the first pillar began to depend on the social tax paid, i.e. the amount of wages. You want to abolish this principle of the first pillar and replace it by taking account of working time. I know that if the tax authorities block the payment of the envelope wage, it is information that is of great importance. I know that through the ages, the main argument behind the explanation work has been that the person receiving the envelope salary will receive less pensions in the future. Now that argument disappears. Why are you pursuing a policy that promotes the payment of envelope wages? By the way, last week representatives of the Tax and Customs Board visited the Committee on Monetary Affairs and their message was that the share of envelope wages has started to increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U10	Thank you, good questioner! I'm absolutely sure we're on the same side of the battle line. The envelope wage was not supported by the previous government; I am absolutely convinced of it, not supported by the current government, and not supported by the next government. So you're gonna have to stand up to the envelope salary anyway. I am not saying any specific objective here to eliminate this tax hole, because the Tax and Customs Board will certainly be engaged in this on an ongoing basis. This is dealt with by the honourable Riigikogu, which, in my opinion, has presented a great many good initiatives. I'm sure that's what the Government of the Republic is working on. Once again, honourable member of the Riigikogu, which is the main point of this pension reform. This reform was not born a week or two weeks or two months ago. This was discussed very seriously by the previous government, a lot of work has been done in the ministries. Since the decision was not made in the previous Government of the Republic, we had two options. We could have said that we are not dealing with this and we realise that pensions will not be viable in the near future, the pension system will not be sustainable and will require more and more additional money from the state. The second option was to make a good decision, which would make 77% of people win and make people's pensions dependent on retirement, but it would also depend on income, we will reopen the second pillar and I will mention the third pillar. So anyway, it's a new system, I'd say, multiple government cooperation. I think it's a pretty good assumption to go from here to the bill. As I said earlier, it will take at least 10 to 12 months to prepare a draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U12	The next question is for the Minister of Public Administration, Mikhail Korb. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I am very pleased that you will not continue the political line of your predecessor Minister Asa on the Setumaa issue. He refused to talk about anything except the population. As I understand it, your work will result in a public survey in Setumaa in the coming days. However, I do not think that much of the audience is very aware of this outcome of your work. Would you inform us and tell some maybe many times, but for the first time, what will happen in the coming days?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U14	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner! Indeed, as you know, by 1 January 2017, the process of voluntary accession in the Republic of Estonia was completed and local governments will no longer be able to join voluntarily. The ball moves forward into the hands of the Government of the Republic and the government has to make so-called forced merger decisions. The question of Setumaa municipality has come up acutely and the public is very keenly discussing whether Setumaa has the right to be or not to be, figuratively speaking. The law currently provides for an exception for Setumaa: it is possible to form a municipality with 3 500 inhabitants. The main question that arises is whether or not you want it. The meaning of the law was that four local authorities agree on a voluntary form and merge, and then the rural municipality of Setumaa arises. It is now clear that the four municipalities could not agree or join each other. There are all sorts of reasons: some say that the cause is the administrative failure of the rural municipalities, and others say that people do not want to take possession of Setumaa. Others, however, say that the rural municipality of Setumaa still needs to be done. In order to find out the general opinion, the Ministry has a plan of 26/29. Until January, a survey of the population will be held. On this basis, the Government of the Republic will propose to the rural municipalities of Setumaa whether or not to join.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U15	George Adams, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U16	Thank you, Mr President. The question of Riina Kersna, a representative of the people, is only in the order of ten and she will probably not be able to present it within an hour. I will then formulate the question he would ask if he could. The Estonian state has supported and stimulated cooperation between the rural municipalities of Setumaa for at least the last ten years. What, then, do you think is in the interests of the Estonian state now, whether it is rather that the whole ten years of work be put to an end, or rather that the ten years of work will continue in new forms?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U17	Thank you for your question. I think that this work, which has been done so far to preserve the culture of Setu, is very important and must be continued. We are now talking about an administrative-territorial reform and about the form in which services will be offered to citizens: cleaning services, school services, kindergarten services. Personally, I think that a new administrative-territorial division can very strongly support the culture and identity of the Setu. But only if Setumaa wants it. The signals are different, i.e. four rural municipalities, three of which are located in Setumaa as a whole, have not been able to agree to form one rural municipality. This means that the differences are very large, and before the Government of the Republic can organise anything by force, it is important to examine the matter very clearly and then make a final proposal. I think that if Setumaa is an administrative-territorial unit, it will certainly support the Setu culture much better than this option, that the two municipalities will be connected to the municipalities in one direction and one municipality and part of the municipality in the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U18	The question to be specified. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U19	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. The municipality of Meremäe is facing a public survey on the issue of accession. After it was decided to conduct a survey of the population, a mass of people began to be entered into the population register and settled in the municipality. In the last few weeks, 50 people have checked in. As I understand it, in other municipalities there too, a massive entry has been opened. The first question is whether you have any data on how population movements have taken place there in recent days and weeks. Secondly, do you think this is normal and will give us the right vote or vote if there is such a manipulation of the electorate? I also say that if ten years have been done with the fusion of these parishes, but they still don't want to join, then the money must have been planted in the wrong place.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U20	Thank you for your question, dear questioner. I don't think it's right to do that kind of behavior when people are written into something so they can be part of the poll. I even think it's very wrong, it's not ethical. But when I proposed to the mayor to conduct a survey, I trusted the leaders of the local authorities and assumed that they would do things right. I hope that none of the people who are conducting the interview are involved in the so-called mass migration. Unfortunately, during the administrative reform, we have seen such writing-in campaigns in other places as well. Of course, this is a bad practice that I would like to avoid. I have no data on how much so-called mass migration is taking place in these municipalities, but I hope that in any case the results of the survey will be objective and reflect the will of the people of this region.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U22	The next question is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U23	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! In the Estonian media, your interview has been published in the Russian-language media, where you spoke about the desire to give the people with grey passports here, i.e. people left in Estonia after the collapse of the Soviet Union who have not chosen the citizenship of any state, Estonian citizenship. This has been the subject of discussion at length, which has caused so-called divisions or differences in Estonian society since the end of the 1980s and since the beginning of the 1990s. So far, there has been a social agreement in Estonia that we do not choose the null variant of citizenship: no one is simply granted citizenship; it is necessary to pass the language examination and citizenship examination to obtain citizenship, which the person shows his loyalty. I have two questions. First of all, why are you re-strengthening this gap in society, just to get 80000 new voters for the Centre Party? Secondly, what do you say to those Russians who have already passed the language examination and citizenship exam and thus shown their loyalty?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U24	Thank you for that question. First of all, I certainly do not support the nullity of citizenship in any key. That's one. Secondly, you are right that the issue of a grey passport has been up for more than 25 years, since the Republic of Estonia regained independence. People had a choice at the time about what kind of passport to take. A lot of people, mostly Russian-speaking people, chose a grey passport. At the time, it was said that this was a temporary solution. We have been told by many international organisations that this temporary solution cannot last for the next 25 years, but must be resolved. I think that from the point of view of the security of the Estonian state and the coherence of Estonian society, it is right that people with citizenship live in Estonia. Certainly the words 'zero variant' or 'zero citizenship' were never used in my interview. I said this: 'Firstly, everyone in Estonia is important to our party, it does not matter whether they speak Russian or Estonian. It is well known to me that there is also a problem concerning citizenship, and many people here in Estonia hold a so-called 'grey passport'. We find that this is an abnormal situation if the people of the country do not have citizenship, and one point in our programme says that all people who have lived here for 25 years or more will receive an Estonian passport. ' This has been the position of the Centre Party, I dare say, in several and several elections, the last time it was in our election programme in 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U25	Martin Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U26	Thank you. This was also one of the reasons why the Centre Party was long in political isolation. But when we are talking about security, it is quite obvious that the security of Estonia will not be enhanced by the fact that people who are actually speaking with Georg's tape, who have not, in principle, wanted to take Estonian citizenship or take any steps to do so, consider it citizens, but it reduces the decision-making power of the indigenous people, or Estonians, to govern the Estonian state. In essence, it means taking the country away from the Estonians and transferring it to the occupation colonists or their descendants. There is no way to improve Estonia's security. We can argue whether the null option is to give people citizenship without special conditions or not. After all, at one point, it will be about immigrants who have arrived here during the occupation, even those who have arrived here later. But I have another question. Is the tactics of the Centre Party and your Prime Minister to speak in Russian media a different story in Estonian media?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U27	Thank you. I'm gonna tell you something in both media. I think it is very reasonable for politicians to speak in English, French, Russian and Estonian media. I do not know where this nullity is taken from or on the basis of which you are developing the subject so that citizenship can be given to people who have come to live here after 1991. Our position is that society must be more coherent and there must be a better balance here. These people are either in public transport, bus stop or shop every hour next to us, they're our neighbors. They pay taxes to this country, they raise children and grandchildren here. I refer to section 6 of the Citizenship Act. I'm not questioning any of the points I'm about to tell you about. First of all, we are only talking about people who lived here before Estonia regained independence on 20 August 1991. Secondly, these people are over 15 years old, they must have a long-term residence permit and legal permanent income, they must be loyal to the Estonian state and they must take an oath to be faithful to the constitutional order of Estonia when applying for citizenship. These points must be firmly met if we are to develop this issue at all. The question now is when to raise such painful issues in society, whether two years before the elections, just before the elections or after the elections. I think that if this issue is raised two years before the elections in order to discuss it, it will be very honest for each social group. The setting up of this topic is linked to only one wish: that there should be less division in Estonia and a more coherent society.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U28	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I think the time for this thing to come out is pretty symbolic, because it's just under the moon until the anniversary of the Republic. This is quite an appropriate debate on the anniversary of the Republic, but obviously this debate will last longer, of course. What you describe as your vision, at least to me, is the impression that Mart Nut has had when he read the descriptions of earlier processes, is still a null option. I think you're gonna have to figure it out. But here's my question. What is the signal to people living in Estonia when some people have had to make an effort to learn Estonian, and they have had to take an oath that they are loyal to the Estonian state, but there are people who can now conclude that there is no need to learn Estonian and no need to exert themselves? It seems to me that the key question is whether citizenship is granted or whether citizenship is applied for. Describe the point of this signal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U30	Thank you. I'm gonna start by saying that this is definitely not the null option. If your party comes up with a zero option, it's hardly supported by the Centre Party. Next, the duty of loyalty, at least in my opinion, will not be lost at all; it will, in any case, remain. Like I said, it's definitely on the table. Now the language aspect. I believe that you, as a very experienced politician at both the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu level, have quite often been in contact with people. You used a beautiful image, I think you mentioned a snow melt in the spring. You go to schools and talk to young people, both Estonian and Russian. In my opinion, language skills have improved considerably in both directions; in Russian-speaking schools, Estonian is spoken quite well or at least at a satisfactory level. Now the question is, what else do we consider to be a sign of loyalty, apart from what I read in section 6 of the Citizenship Act? I repeat that, in my opinion, a person who is not loyal to the Estonian state cannot under any circumstances give citizenship. A person who applies for Estonian citizenship, but who does not swear that he promises to be loyal to the constitutional order of Estonia, cannot give citizenship. But I think it's a sign of a person's desire to live in this country and contribute to this society. Man has lived here for 30 or 40 years, created his own home here. What can be a greater measure of loyalty than the creation of a home? Man has contributed to society with taxes, he has raised his children here. It is simply my wish that all political parties should address this issue. There is, of course, another possibility: political parties say that this topic is not important in Estonia and they do not deal with it. But there's a problem in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U32	The next question is the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, Urve Palo. Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U33	Good manager! Good Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology! In the world, many countries compete for highly skilled labour. The Work in Estonia programme has been created to introduce Estonia as a destination for work. The objective of the Work in Estonia campaign has so far been to attract IT specialists in Estonia, since the shortage of skilled labour in this area is the greatest. The metrics set by EAS have been exceeded, I see most of them quite large. A few weeks ago, you said that the Work in Estonia program has not justified itself and you are considering whether to continue it at all. That is my question, which has given rise to such a view.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U34	Thank you, good questioner! Dear ex-minister, a very good question and an important raise. The truth is that when we set up a new coalition meeting with representatives of entrepreneurs and economic specialists, all three of them said Erkki Raasuke, Robert Kitt and Toomas Tamsar that the biggest problem in Estonia was the shortage of qualified labour. That's a long time ago. Yes, in spring 2015, such a programme as 'Work in Estonia' was created and criteria were also established to measure whether this programme has been successful or not. At the time, this programme was designed for two markets, Finland and Ukraine. Marketing was done primarily to attract IT specialists here. When I was asked at the beginning of the year about the success or necessity or continuation of this programme, I said something about the fact that in certain things this programme has not met its objectives, and I am about to explain why, and I certainly need to look seriously at whether and how to continue it. The programme's action plan was drawn up until the end of last year, so in any case, this is the time when a new action plan has to be drawn up. I know that the Ministry of Economic Development, together with the EAS, will do so, and in early spring these proposals will be on my desk. But what's the problem? If we look at the meters now, we can see that they are filled very nicely in themselves. For example, how many times has the website been viewed? The aim was that at least 170000 times, it was actually revised 400,000 times. How many times have articles been written about this program? Again, the meter is even worse than the actual result, etc. But I think it really matters not how much this page is viewed, but how many IT specialists will finally come to work in Estonia. I hope you ask again and I can continue to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U35	Andres Herkel's specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will ask you a little bit about the other thing, but I think that the question relates to the question of the honourable Anne Sulling. Namely, the Free Party has repeatedly raised the subject of the social tax ceiling in order to encourage the creation of high-wage jobs in Estonia. There is still one such draft procedure. What is your attitude towards this measure?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U37	Thank you. I see that Anne Sulling is asking again, so I can move on with my answer, and I just missed an important part. As far as the social tax ceiling is concerned, I personally have not advocated it, nor am I in favour of it today. This would seriously undermine Estonia's solidarity insurance system. We know that the Estonian health insurance system is built on solidarity. Looking at how much of GDP we have to cover medical costs, we see that we are relatively at the forefront here compared to other countries. I am not in favour of measures to break this solidarity system. The Estonian market is also so small that, if you put such a ceiling on the tax or make exceptions, people should also have a very decent opportunity to use public health insurance in addition to private insurance. As the Estonian market is small, we do not have private insurance in health insurance and it is unlikely that it will work. These are the main reasons. If you look at our tax system in general, you can see that Estonia's labour taxes are at the average level in the European Union, health insurance is also subject to labour taxes. Our labour taxes are also lower than those of our northern neighbours, but if we look at how much investments are made in Estonia compared to Sweden or Finland, where taxes are higher, we can see that, unfortunately, Estonia is going to be a very big loser here. So the question of whether we have more or less high-wage jobs has nothing to do with whether or not we have a ceiling on social tax. The reasons are different, I say.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U38	Anne Sulling, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U39	Thank you. I'll continue with my question so you can be more specific. What are the future plans for Work in Estonia meters?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U40	Thank you. I described these old meters, which on the one hand may be, but they should be supplemented by how many people actually came to work here and whether this job made sense. There was marketing, we introduced our country, but it didn't fulfil the goal of why we did all this to get more skilled workers here. Let's look at the Finnish market. We had the goal of getting the IT sector's employees here. We assumed that since a large IT company, namely Nokia, had pulled together activities in Finland, we should have been able to invite employees there. It didn't work. Why? Those workers who got rid of Nokia and who might have wanted to come here didn't need our IT sector. But those who were needed by the IT sector, the software developers, did not come here, because unfortunately, our salaries are not at Finnish level. So marketing in Finland was great, but it didn't meet the goal. It is difficult to say anything about Ukraine, because, compared to 2014, for example, 300 more people have come to work here, with growth from roughly 700 to 1000. But we don't know if there's a job here for construction or the IT sector, there's no statistics. I have asked my colleagues, both in EAS and in the Department of Economic Development, that the first thing we do is to put statistics in order to see if this programme is working. Secondly, EAS has tested ten countries to see if it is not right to carry out marketing campaigns elsewhere instead of Finland. I expect these results in early spring, then I can view the analysis as a complete picture. Of course, this question remains, which has also been raised by colleagues, that although our entrepreneurs say that there is a shortage of labour and that they would like to recruit specialists from outside Estonia, entrepreneurs often have relatively little willingness to hire these people. This is the idea that perhaps the Estonian state should do more explaining and working with its entrepreneurs in order to understand what needs they have and whether they would actually realise this possibility if they had it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U42	Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will answer Andres Herkel's question. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! What you have said is that this is not the null option of citizenship is in any case very similar to the null option. You will probably fail to convince us that it is simply such a terminological abracadabra. I'm really sorry that you guys knocked this whole thing up so empty, nothing really ties up in this social debate. But you needed a subject like that, and with it, you're covering up more important things. Last time the Centre Party submitted a proposal in this direction, it was discussed in December 2014, during the previous Riigikogu. At the time, the 16 delegates supported it, no more. Where are you going to find support now? How do you feel about integration policies that have still brought the number of stateless persons below 80,000? There were hundreds of thousands of these people. Do you think this policy has failed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U44	Thank you very much, good questioner, for this question. I do not agree with the argument that this is very similar to the null option. In my opinion, that is not the case. We are talking about people who have lived in this country for 25 or more years, we are not talking about people who have come here since August 20, 1991. We are not talking about sending the passport of the Republic of Estonia home to everyone by post. We are talking about the fact that Article 6 of the Citizenship Act applies for the most part. We are talking about the need for these people to be loyal to the Estonian state and its order. You're saying it's a blank-up issue. If you are interviewed and asked for the views of you and the Free Party, you will hardly say, in answer to a question, that this issue is not being discussed very seriously in society now and that you do not know whether or not you are supporting it anymore. I don't think you're saying that, but your integrity is well-known. I have already said that this topic was included in the Central Party's 2015 election programme, and that did not in any way mean 'zero citizenship'. Now you are asking how to support this idea. It is clear that there is no support for this in XIII's composition. I also said that if all political parties say before the 2019 Riigikogu elections or say at least five political groups who are now here are here, that this is not the kind of subject they would support, then there will also be no support for it in the next composition. But as I have learned about the Free Party, issues in society could and should be discussed, and this could also be one such subject. The fact that the number of stateless persons has fallen below 80,000 is certainly a good one.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U45	Andres Herkel, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U46	Thank you. Prime Minister! I'm going to stick to it that it's very similar to what Edgar Savisaar was driving in the early 1990s, just that it's been a long time. But I am now talking about language policy, which I also promised to ask you about. Here, too, you have such views and you have taken steps that make us somewhat uneasy. It was said earlier that there would be some different signals for the Estonian and Russian audiences. Wasn't it Mikhail Kõlvart who told Interfax that the language requirements of the Russian gymnasium were intended to be relaxed? Can you confirm that the position of the Speaker was such a selfish one? Or what are you up to?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U47	Thank you very much for this question. I've been thinking, it's interesting how I should start answering these questions. Perhaps I should always stress that I support the Republic of Estonia, I support the fact that the Tall Hermann Tower has a blue black and white flag, Estonia is a member of the European Union, it is a strong partner in NATO and so on. But I will come back to your question: I will not stick to it as if it were a null option. This is certainly not the null option, the Centre Party is completely opposed to the null option. Speaking of the opinion of one person or another, I can say what today's government thinks about language policy. We will work without changing the basic principles of citizenship policy in order to increase the level of proficiency in the Estonian language and improve the opportunities for learning the Estonian language at all levels of education, including kindergarten. That is the principle that has been agreed upon. When it comes to citizenship, I can say that it has been agreed that, on application, we will allow naturalisation of the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia to be granted to children born in Estonia under 15 years of age whose parent or parents are either persons of undetermined nationality or nationals of a third country who were permanently resident in Estonia before 20 August 1991, if the parents of the child or the parent raising the child alone or, on becoming an adult, the child has applied to renounce the citizenship of a third country. This principle is included in the coalition agreement. On language policy, all three parties have said that we want to do everything in order to ensure that Estonian language learning is meaningful and that the level of knowledge of Estonian in the Estonian country is raised every month and year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U48	Mart Helme, the point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! You also supported the abolition of e-elections and the direct election of the President when you were in opposition. You have also opposed Rail Baltic's solution, which is currently planned. However, once you become a government, you have made a smooth change in your views. We have reason to doubt whether your views will change again as circumstances change. Do you realize that the proposal simply to grant citizenship, regardless of what you have read to us now, is essentially contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the Citizenship Act, the Language Act and several other laws? Do you realize that citizenship doesn't equal loyalty? During the Bronze Night, very many young people from Estonian citizens were raging on the streets. These two things are not equal. Do you realize that if some 80,000 people are added to the citizens who have not wanted, wanted to learn the Estonian language, or have not been able to do so, this means a long, long step towards establishing bilingualism?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U50	Thank you, thank you, thank you. Time's long gone.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U51	The question is whether your next step is the bilingual system...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U52	Thank you. I heard the end of the question. I am based on the fact that there is an official language in the Republic of Estonia, and I stand for it today, tomorrow and the day after. This language is the Estonian language, the cutest and most beautiful language in the world. You mentioned several sins: e-elections, citizenship and loyalty and 80,000. Let's get started. First of all, the 80,000 people who currently have a gray passport. I think that at least half of them do not qualify for citizenship of the Republic of Estonia at all. Next, does the citizenship certificate automatically give loyalty? That's what I've been trying to say all along. I think if a person has lived and worked here for decades, his home is here, his children live here, his family lives here, that's a measure of loyalty. In any case, it is a measure of loyalty! It is known that it has been agreed that we want to shorten the time for e-elections. They should take place on the sixth, fifth and fourth days before the elections. E-elections don't go away. If you say you have reason to doubt it, don't doubt it. The Centre Party will continue to stand for the important principles for which it has stood since the activities of the Popular Front: that Estonian society be more coherent and prosperous, that the Estonian business environment improves and that Estonian people receive more income. I am pleased that the new tax system will be in place from the beginning of next year. My party has also stood firm for Estonia to be an independent state today and forever.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U53	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U54	The next question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will be asked by Henn Põlluaas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U55	Thank you. Prime Minister! The Rail Baltic Agreement, which you intend to sign on 31 January, bindingly fixes Estonia's commitments and stipulates that Rail Baltic must be built to the end even if the long-term financing of the project cannot be guaranteed or force majeure will arise. At the same time, the cost-benefit study commissioned by Ernst & Young will only be completed in April and the funding from the European Union for the next period will be completely open, as well as our own ability to perform the contractual obligations in the absence or reduction of European Union funding. The government continues to rely on the old 2011 profitability study of AECOM, which has been repeatedly and clearly overturned. Where does the courage of the government to assume such irresponsible obligations to Estonia without a competent cost-benefit study?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U56	Thank you for raising this issue. The truth is that the three prime ministers of the Baltic States have a plan on January 31st, Tuesday next week to sign a document confirming that we want to build Rail Baltic. However, this is not a final decision, but you also know, honourable member of the Riigikogu, that this document is still coming to this Riigikogu for ratification. Is that reckless? I don't think I'm wrong to say that Rail Baltic has been dealt with for years, maybe ten years, maybe longer. The question is whether we consider it right that our rail connection in the future is better, green and environmentally friendly, that our connection with the Baltic countries is better, but I would also say that we have a better connection within Estonia, or we do not consider it important. Now about the dangers you mentioned. On one of the things I have said here before, I agree with you today, Mr Pierce. Indeed, one thing is open, and that is what the European Union's funding will be specifically for the next period. I have also said that if it is not 81% in proportion: 19%, whereas 19% is the co-financing share of the Estonian state or Estonian taxpayers, then, of course, new foundations will emerge. But we are working to ensure that the current financing scheme continues in the next financial period. There are so many figures that the Connecting Europe Facility has now gone 765 million euros, Estonia's share of it has been 226 million euros and Estonia's own financing of 40 million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U57	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U58	Thank you. Such projects are extremely naive to build up, to say the least. The European Union has opened up almost EUR 800 million to four countries, a large part of which is intended to be spent simply on air-waving, or the promotion of Rail Baltic. However, Lithuania may not sign this agreement at all; Poland is not interested in it, so failure of the project is not excluded. But if we stop this, we will have to pay back the money we have already made, and finally, on the basis of the proposed agreement that you are going to sign, we will still have to build it and maintain it, but then completely with our own country and taxpayers' money. The state of Estonia and the taxpayer will not survive this additional burden. Is the power of the left coalition...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U60	Thank you, good questioner! The general principle is, as far as I know, that if you make an investment, there will also be operating costs. That's right, it's true. If you're building a larger intersection, you're gonna need more snow and more lighting. So is Rail Baltic. If there is a new railway route, it is true that the Estonian taxpayer, in cooperation with the state, is obliged to cover its daily costs. The hope is that if there are enough goods and passengers, perhaps there are enough operators, these costs will be reduced. I have asked for calculations of what is the maximum cost in one year. It has been said that it is the circum of 10 million euros. True, some members of the Riigikogu, such as Martin Helme sitting next to you, said when I answered the question that this was not true. This is also a very important input and argument. Maybe it is. I know the calculations that say the order of magnitude is 10 million. Any operator, any freight or passenger train, should reduce this pressure on the taxpayer's wallet. I hope we find enough freight and passenger trains there. Now a few words about this project. I cannot sign this agreement unless I am authorized by the Government of the Republic to do so. As I said, you said it very rightly by the governments and parliaments of the three Baltic states, only then can it go on. As far as I am concerned, for example, this government meeting is taking place in Lithuania today and it will also start at one o'clock, so that this decision should be taken in Lithuania in the next few hours.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U61	Martin Helme, the point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U62	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! Neither you nor anyone in this Parliament is a railway or logistics specialist and can rely on hope or faith in their decisions. We could still take a look at the peer review. They really are different. I must confirm that we do not believe that the so-called experts of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications are neutral on this issue, but are in fact lobbyists. Coming to that $800 million, I have two things I'd like to ask you. Firstly, the project leaders from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications warn or frighten the public that if the Rail Baltic project was to be interrupted, we would have to pay back not only the costs we have made, but also the costs that Latvia and Lithuania have made, i.e. the same 800 million euros. Secondly, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the next budget period was reviewed and it is clear that our revenue from the European Union will be one billion or one-and-a-half billion fewer in the next period. Is that one thing to consider?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U63	Thank you. In this sense, you are absolutely right that money must, of course, be taken into account; all of this cannot be done without calculation. If you call someone an agent, it's a serious accusation. State officials, the whole public sector, including politicians, cannot be anyone's influence. They can only be the best influence agents in the Estonian state in the best sense. What do I want to tell you? Indeed, a financing agreement has been concluded between the European Commission, the Baltic States and the Rail Baltic Joint Undertaking from the Connecting Europe Facility. As I said earlier, the total volume of this project is EUR 765 million. Of this, 633 million euros have been provided for under the Connecting Europe Facility, of which the share that Estonia will receive is 226 million euros and Estonia's budget burden or self-financing is 40 million. These are the sums we have to take into account. Tomorrow, both in the office and at the meeting of the Government of the Republic, we will certainly address this issue. Without the approval of the Government of the Republic, the Prime Minister cannot sign this document.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U64	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U65	Keit Pentus-Rosimethus to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U66	Thank you. Prime Minister! Estonia's current citizenship policy has been based on legal continuity, the presumption of knowledge of the Estonian language and the declaration of free will of the person. You have now said that citizenship in Estonia should be given to 80000 Estonians who have not wanted to learn the required level of Estonian in 25 years or who have considered it more convenient to not take Estonian citizenship. To be honest, I think that this perspective or plan alone has done quite a lot of damage to the learning, integration and coherence of the Estonian language that you spoke about earlier. Essentially, the attitude, opinion, and many also expect that the Estonian language, Estonian constitution and history will not need to be studied in the future, because citizenship can at some point be learned without it. Why would anyone living in Estonia have to learn Estonian in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U67	Thank you. You can't give no one citizenship. I'm saying this completely seriously. I believe that no party comes up with the idea that we are going to give citizenship to one person or another. Whoever gets citizenship, I said this before, because this issue is not the first question in Question Time today, but the third time in question, must certainly be loyal to the citizen of this country. He must want to live in this country, and he must certainly recognise the constitutional order of this country. I am therefore quite convinced that the desire to learn the Estonian language, the language that is the only official language in this country, is very strong, especially for younger people. Secondly, it is not the case that everyone is sent home with an Estonian passport or citizenship. A person must express his free will that he or she wants this nationality. I have also said in my interviews that it is not at all possible to solve the problem of all the 80,000 people who currently have a grey passport. I have clearly said that those people who have been involved in the Soviet army, for example, will under no circumstances receive Estonian citizenship, at least in my opinion. Now, however, we are getting back to this everyday issue. You said that this issue raised would break the work done on integration or coherence. I think that everything that has been done in our society in terms of coherence is very well done. But if one or the other party puts on the table one thought or theme that has been his programmed position for years, and if it is a problem in Estonian society, then it could be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U68	The question of Keit Pentus-Rosimine, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U69	Thank you. I really need to be more specific, because I did not get a precise answer to my question. My question was that if your plan, which you do not want to call a gift of citizenship, includes that the language skills of a person who has lived in Estonia for 25 years will no longer be necessary in the future, do you admit that shaping this attitude in Estonian society as a whole will reduce the desire, will and need to learn Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U70	Thank you. I certainly admit that not only does the coalition agreement express this desire and will, but it is the desire and will of all of us to improve the quality of Estonian language learning and to increase the level of knowledge of the Estonian language. I admit that it is our wish that in upper secondary school the skills of people who speak Russian at home, for example, will be improved. That is why we have also said that if we offer more flexible solutions in upper secondary schools, the ability to speak Estonian should reach the C1 level, which would give these young people much better opportunities to enter universities operating in Estonia. I admit that, in my opinion, the Riigikogu, the government and the entire official body must act every day to ensure that Estonian language learning improves, but not only in the world of tables, percentages or numbers, but in essence.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U71	Taavi in Clothes, a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U72	Good Prime Minister! It's been exactly two months since your government was formed. Although you declared in the coalition agreement that you would not change the foundations of foreign policy, we are seeing such advances in Syria. You have declared that you will not change the foundations of citizenship policy, but two months after that, you will promote the nullity option that I believe this proposal of yours will definitely represent. But my question is completely different. During these 25 years, some non-Estonians have left Estonia, some have learned the Estonian language at least on an elementary level and have sworn their allegiance to the Estonian state, saying that this country is dear to them, but some have not done so for some reason. My question to you is of a more personal nature. Would you imagine that you would live 25 years or longer in a country you care about without learning the language on an elementary level?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U73	Thank you. I will start with what was not part of your question, it concerns your introduction. Yes, we have indeed said that we will not change the foundations of foreign policy. I think that the fact that Estonia's foreign and defence policy has been able to have 25 years of very strong common positions has value in its own right. However, I think that certain parts of it need to be repaired or further developed. For example, the External Action Service clearly said when we made the coalition agreement that they needed more money, and we have said that we will of course give it. We know certain shortcomings in Estonia's defence capabilities and defence policy. The government has said that we want to launch a new investment programme, which also plays an important role in defence investments. So we are making good efforts to further develop these two areas. Now your personal question is that if Jüri Ratas lived in one, another or third country for more than 25 years or 25 years, would he imagine not to speak the language of that country? I can't imagine.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U74	I will conclude on this issue. Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! Thank you, ministers Urve Palo and Mikhail Korb. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U75	Honourable Riigikogu! The 3rd working week session of the V plenary session will open on Wednesday. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U76	Honourable speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party, I give Minister Urmas Reinsalu an inquiry into the registration of the marriage of persons of the same sex in the population register. In Estonia, a decision has come into force as a result of a trial that is hidden from the public, and for the first time in the Republic of Estonia an association of persons of the same sex has been entered in the population register as a marriage. The process was carried out by homo-activist Reimo Mets, which is why there is no doubt that it was a political act to change the behaviour of the state bypassing the will of the people and the decisions of Parliament. This is a very dangerous precedent, the effects of which go far beyond the limits of a particular case. With the entry into force of this judgment, the Estonian legal system has accepted that marriage can also be legally considered as an association of persons of the same sex. The decision is contrary to the family law in force in Estonia and to the law of private international law. The judges of the Tallinn Circuit Court Virgo Saarmets, Maret Altnurme and Kaire Pikamäe violated Estonian laws and took up the role of lawmakers. This is what we ask the Minister of Justice. Why did the Estonian state not appeal this decision to the Supreme Court? Based on what legislation did the judges make their decision? During this case, did the Minister of Justice also communicate with his colleague from the Ministry of the Interior because, in principle, people turned against him to court? Does the Minister see the possibility of disciplining the basic principle of separation of powers and the arbitrary judges? Does the Minister of Justice see the need or possibility to initiate a legislative amendment that would exclude the registration of registered partnerships or marriages in other countries in the respective Estonian registers, if this registration is contrary to Estonian law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U77	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U78	Mr President of the sitting! The Free Party Group will initiate a draft law amending the Administrative Reform Act. This is still Article 9 (3) of the same Administrative Reform Act, which we have dealt with here before, and the content of which is that it lists the few exceptions which allow the basic control figures of the administrative reform to be ignored. We are presenting a new text of this paragraph, the political content of which is that we are abandoning individual exceptions and giving the Government of the Republic the opportunity to make every reasonable exception that might be necessary in the second phase of administrative reform. Ministers for administrative reform have said that they are in an unpleasant situation because they would like to make proposals, but they cannot, because the law on administrative reform says that you must first make a proposal that you cannot expect to adopt. In essence, a negative opinion must be ordered from the municipality so that a reasonable proposal can be made in the next phase. Our draft takes away the duty of this hypocritical pseudoactivity from the government and gives the government the freedom to make sensible decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U79	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U80	Mr. Chairman! Honourable representatives of the people! On behalf of eight members of the Free Party, I will report an inquiry to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. This inquiry illustrates very vividly the problem described above by Jüri Adams, i.e. the administrative reform and its extremely rigid nature, the limit of 5000 inhabitants, from which it is very difficult to deviate. This whip and carrot method, with which this reform has been carried out, has created a great deal of concrete nonsense. We have already delivered a bill here concerning the drying-up of Läänemaa. Yesterday, Monika Haukanõm reported an inquiry into the fate of Vastselina. The issue of the name of the municipality of Võnnu is also included in some of these topics. Now we want to ask questions about the implementation of administrative reform in Järvamaa. There is such a strange situation that Järva Parish, which is in the shape of a gut or bow tie, is emerging. It becomes geographically particularly odd when Dog turns his back on the whole thing and actually leaves for West Viru County. Why has this happened? The second round of questions relates to why Väätsa, located outside Paide, joins Türi municipality. We want to hear from the Prime Minister what recommendations he gives to local people. One important issue that is being raised over and over again, especially in Järvamaa, is the role played by the so-called 'gerrymandering', which is the hope of the party implementing the reform to get a suitable electoral circle as a result of accessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U81	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U82	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to give the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Simson, on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, an inquiry into the cost-benefit studies of Rail Baltic and the agreement between Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania signed on 31 January, according to which Estonia will assume binding commitments to build a railway even if it is unable to secure its long-term financing from European Union funds or to create force majesties. We still have to build it, but in that case, we'll have our own expense and letters. We ask a number of questions here. Why would such a contract be concluded now that the return study ordered from Ernst & Young will only be completed in April? What's the rush? What would happen if Estonia stepped out of the project? The questions we are hoping to get answers to from the Minister are the right number of questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U83	Both the draft and the three inquiries will be dealt with in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. Incoming check, please! 89 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U84	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. The second reading of the Act on Insurance Activities initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws begins 275. Financial Committee waitress Kalvi Tough, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U85	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 12 September 2016 and the first reading took place in this Chamber on 19 October of last year. The rapporteur for the Commission was my colleague Kalev Eagle at the time. Since Kalev Eagle has now left the Riigikogu, the committee appointed me rapporteur. By the deadline for submitting amendments, by 2 November last year, the members of the Riigikogu, the committees and the political groups did not submit amendments. The commission has prepared one amendment amending the date of entry into force of the Act. The law will enter into force on 1 January 2018, not on 31 December 2016, as originally planned. As a reminder, the draft is necessary for the national implementation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. It is necessary to introduce appropriate references into the law in order to better implement the regulation of the directly applicable European Union. The Regulation aims to strengthen the protection and confidence of retail investors (not a professional investor) in combined investment products and insurance-based investment products. It was already known at the time of the first reading that the application of the European Parliament and Council regulation would be postponed. The Regulation was initially intended to be implemented from 31 December 2016 and at the same time the law under discussion should have entered into force. However, since the Regulation introduced an amendment to the date of application and it was written in the Regulation that it would apply from 1 January 2018, this makes it necessary to amend the entry into force standard of our draft. The decision on the second reading of the draft was taken in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 16 January. The Finance Committee decided to propose that the draft be sent to the plenary of the Riigikogu for a second reading today. It was also decided to propose the termination of the second reading. These decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U86	Questions for the waitress. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Commission waitress. I understand that the entry into force of the law will be postponed because the entry into force of the European Union regulation will be postponed. However, there are also provisions where there is no direct reference to this Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, in particular those relating to funded pensions, and which would help to strengthen retail investor protection and confidence in investment products. Why is it necessary to postpone the entry into force of these provisions, where there is no direct reference to this major European regulation, for a year? Why can't you enforce them now? We need to strengthen retail investor protection. These provisions would help to do so, especially in the case of pension insurance contracts. I refer, for example, to paragraphs 2 and 4 of § 1 of the draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U88	Thank you. The Commission did indeed take that decision. The consensus decision was to postpone the enforcement of the entire draft to 1 January 2018. It must be pointed out that the author of the question was also in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U89	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U90	I have a similar question to the previous one, because I was not in the Commission and the first reading was not included here. You spoke about what was written in the minutes and how the vote took place, but I did not really get a substantive answer. If there are indeed paragraphs that could enter into force earlier and are in the interests of the people and investors of Estonia, do they really have to postpone their entry into force for a year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U91	Thank you, my good colleague. Really, if this was the first reading of this bill, then you did your ministerial duties. I suggest you look at the Riigikogu web site or maybe there is a text or a full text of the draft at first reading on the back of the shelf. There's those things in there. You can certainly also look at the verbatim on the web and read what was discussed here at first reading. However, as far as I understand the Commission's debate, it is also reasonable to implement domestic matters from 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U92	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U93	Commission waitress, unfortunately, you did not answer my question. I didn't ask about the minutes of the committee sitting. I know what it says. I will then ask again about subsections 1 (2) and 1 (4) of the draft. How do these provisions relate to the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council that you have referred to? Why can't they be enforced a year earlier?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U94	Thank you. Certainly can, but as I said, the Commission has decided that they are reasonable to enforce from 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U95	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U96	Thank you, dear waitress. I understand that you are referring to the fact that Aivar Sõerd, who is asking questions to you, was also present on that committee and is probably very familiar with the whole procedure of this bill. Could we make a joint request for him to come here at second reading and explain to all of us why such decisions were taken in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U97	Thank you. At second reading, members of all the political groups and committees of the Riigikogu, all members of the Riigikogu, can participate in the negotiations. So fire it up!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U98	The waitress has run out of questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. One amendment to the draft 275 has been tabled, has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of draft 275. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U99	The next item is the second reading of the Emergency Act 205 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Ken-Marti Vaher, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U100	Mr President, honourable Member of the Riigikogu Near and respected members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber, welcome to the debate on the second reading of the draft Emergency Act. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 4 April 2016. The first reading took place on 1 June 2016. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 10 June, no amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this draft at quite a number of meetings, both in the autumn and in January of this year, and we have also examined several proposals and letters from the initiator's representative. Finally, at the initiative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, a total of 34 proposals have been included in the table of amendments in order to allow for changes which have become apparent between the first and second readings. In addition to the members of the Commission, a large number of experts from the Ministry of the Interior and representatives of interest groups have participated in the discussion. I will take stock of the main amendments, which are also thoroughly reproduced in the explanatory memorandum. Amendment 1 complements the draft with a new § 3, which precisely delineates the principles of crisis management: decentralisation, continuity of tasks, subsidiarity and cooperation. A clear understanding of the precise role of the institution involved in crisis management will also be given. Amendment 2 follows from a letter from the Ministry of the Interior. The law is supplemented in such a way that the Crisis Committee of the Government of the Republic can entrust tasks not only to institutions belonging to the Crisis Committee, but also to all other institutions involved in crisis management, such as Eesti Pank, which does not participate in the work of the Crisis Committee. Amendment 3 amends § 4 so that the Regional Crisis Committee coordinates the crisis management activities of the regional structural units of executive authorities and local authorities in the region. It also provides for a specific and precise definition of the implementation of crisis management tasks. Amendment 5 clarifies one of the tasks of the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of the Interior will be obliged to develop and plan to implement a national crisis management policy in the future. The wording and the content of the specific action are specified here. Amendment 9 follows from a letter from one category and concerns the obligation of the electronic communications undertaking to inform citizens of an emergency. In particular, it should be clarified that, where a communications undertaking has an obligation to inform the population, there should be a pre-arranged and robust method of notification, as well as the format of the notification. Amendment 14 specifies the wording of § 24 (6) on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior. On the basis of the current version, it may have seemed that if an emergency situation had been declared prior to an emergency situation, the emergency driver would not be subject to the emergency driver. In fact, it should be clear from the wording that the emergency driver is subject to an emergency situation when the emergency situation has been declared at the same time and applies at the same time as the emergency situation. Amendment 19 concerning § 41 (2) specifies the wording in a small communication word. The proposal concerns the obligation of the critical service provider to ensure the continuity of the vital service in a way and with means that are independent of information systems located abroad. At the meetings of the Constitutional Commission, there were several discussions with interest groups, such as the Estonian Banking Association and Eesti Pank, in order to make the wording clear and understandable to as many parties as possible. The amendment that has been proposed should be this, which conveys the legislator's point in the best way. Eesti Pank was also satisfied with this wording at the last session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and gave us permission to proceed with it. Amendment 21 provides for more precise wording. We extend the point of the provision in such a way that the state does not compensate for the value of the substances and materials owned by the owner when these substances and materials were used for his benefit. This distinction was wrongly overlooked in the drafting of the draft, but it is not justified. The State Liability Act also applies to the principle that a person may not claim compensation for damage caused by a lawful administrative act or act to the extent that the restriction of fundamental rights or freedoms took place in his or her interest. This is a very clear principle that could also apply under the Emergency Act. Amendment 23 follows from a letter from the Ministry of the Interior and concerns § 53 of the draft. Above all, we are talking about food and health supplies in the country. In order to maintain these reserves even after the entry into force of the new law, these reserves of activity should be established by the order of the Government of the Republic. It is therefore proposed that stocks that have been established so far be kept under existing regulations until new stocks have been created. The final proposal, which I specifically point out, is No 25, which complements the draft with the new provision of § 55, which amends the electricity market law in such a way that the vital service provider is, under this law, a network operator with more than 10000 customers connected to the distribution network. This amendment is intended primarily to ensure that, within the meaning of this law, critical service providers are precisely those undertakings whose distribution network covers the whole of Estonia. That is precisely why this definition of a municipality of 10000 inhabitants or more is set out here. Finally, I will say the procedural decisions and proposals of the commission. The Constitutional Committee decided to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 25 January and to propose that the second reading be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U101	Questions for the waitress. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U102	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Surely this is an important law and this update is necessary. I will once again ask about the subject, which was also mentioned in the Commission, namely the ferry connection between the mainland and the islands as a vital service. In my opinion, the ferry connection to Saaremaa and Hiiumaa has all the characteristics of the vital service, the long-term disruption of this connection would be an event with signs of emergency in the region, but yet we do not find any reference to it in the Emergency Act. The Ministry of the Interior has claimed that this topic is covered by the Law on the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities. What is your position and comment? In the meantime, has there been any further information that we have thought through the possibility of disrupting the ferry, that we are ready for this and that we can do this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U103	Thank you for your question. This issue has been discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As you rightly pointed out, and as we were also told by the drafters, this has been a long and in-depth analysis, the best practices in neighbouring countries were also examined. Yes, the logic of the source is based on the principle that the Law on the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities applies. By the way, this is not the oldest law in this context, since it came into force in 2014. As the representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs pointed out, the notion that there is a law on the general part of the Code of Economic Activities, which sets out the rules governing the provision of services of general interest, is still relatively new to the representatives of several government agencies. Yes, that law entered into force on 1 July 2014. The definition of a service provider of general interest indicates who is an undertaking providing a vital service or, in the case provided by law, another undertaking providing a service used by the vast majority of residents of the state or local government. The aim of the regulation of a service of general interest is precisely to answer a question such as the one you put, for example, what to do when problems arise in ferry traffic. The aim of this regulation is to ensure the continuity of the provision of an essential service to many citizens, for example, in the context of a situation in which an undertaking wishes to cease its activities. So, what are the odds? The provider of a service of general interest also has clear obligations, for example, § 35 (1) of the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities states that if the provider wishes to leave the market unexpectedly, it must inform the economic administration thereof. If another undertaking cannot be found quickly to replace it, the economic administration may oblige the service provider to continue to provide the service until a new service provider is found, but for no longer than nine months. That's a long time. A claim may even be made for the expropriation of property used where this is necessary to ensure the continuity of the service of general interest. The purpose of all of this is precisely to prevent the provision of such services, on which a certain number of Estonian residents depend. This means that we also have other laws on the basis of which, for example, ferry traffic can be ensured between several islands and continents. So this decision has been considered. If you are asking on what basis possible vital services have been identified in the context of this law, they are basic services. A very specific assessment was carried out and its methodology had been established by the Ministry of the Interior in cooperation with other ministries. This allowed us to identify what services are the basis for all other services and what needs to be regulated more strictly. These services were assessed in a number of categories and 14 services were selected, which are basic services and which this Emergency Act mainly describes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U104	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U105	Honourable Chairman! Good billwriter! I would like to know that if there is a flood in the residential area and the crisis has to be regulated in several areas (traffic management, water and sewerage services, electricity, human property safety and disaster tourism), who will do so, whether the local government, the police or the Rescue Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U106	Thank you for your question. You probably referred to cases in Pärnu, for example. Yes, there are emergency solvers mostly in the Rescue and Police Department, certainly working in cooperation with the local government. With the draft under discussion, read, for example, the section on emergency management and cooperation, the possibility of declaring an emergency, unlike the current law under which an emergency situation has not been declared. Paragraph 14 (3) states, for example, that the authority managing the emergency will decide when an emergency occurs. This is particularly important in order to better manage risk communication, inform people of the extent to which a breakdown or disruption of vital services is involved, and certainly to better mobilise the bodies that should resolve the situation in order to cooperate. I therefore think that this law, as a whole, will also provide a better framework for dealing with cases that you have touched upon in your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U107	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U108	Good manager! Good waitress! The draft law clearly states that the vital service will be dealt with in its entirety with the necessary margin for its operation. But the Commission said that the logic of stocks is not quite clear and the risk analysis will only be completed by 1 January next year, although we will probably be adopting this law soon. Doesn't it worry that a lot of these silos have been polished, how everyone can work together, but one of the most important things about the inventory review and risk analysis has not been completed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U109	Thank you for your question. The general principle under this law, as you heard in the Commission, is that the resolution of emergencies in Estonia is decentralised and, in this sense, the issue of stocks is also decentralised. Those institutions that bear specific responsibilities must themselves identify this need and submit the data to the Government of the Republic. In accordance with the implementing provisions, the Government of the Republic is to decide by means of its own arrangements the principles for the composition and collection of stocks by 2018. I wouldn't dare say it's troubling. On the contrary, I think that, if this law is adopted, there will be a clear guideline on how and to what extent supplies need to be collected in Estonia. There are different countries in Europe concerning stocks. There are very advanced countries and there are less advanced countries. This depends very much on the resources allocated to the collection of specific stocks. You, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, received a general overview of the state of stock. It's sensitive information. In many areas, I think, Estonia is in a pretty good position. On the other hand, it is always possible to be more forward-looking in the collection of stocks, especially in the case of a small country.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U110	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The emergency may lead to internal security risks, marauding and failure to comply with orders from the authorities. How have these questions been resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U112	Thank you very much for your question. For example, it has been resolved in Section 4, paragraphs 34 and 35. Perhaps you will remember that this is a solution that has been proposed some time ago, involving, for example, the Defence Forces and the Defence League in solving the emergency caused by the declaration of emergency. These disputes were heated, but they were meaningful, and they led to a specific regulation, which is also beautifully stated here. Perhaps when our internal security is lacking, it is possible to involve the Defence Forces and the Defence League. I think it's important in a small country. In my opinion, this is an adequate solution and it is very precisely put in place. In general, the Defence Forces and the Defence League do not intervene in internal security, but they can be involved. In my opinion, this reasonable involvement of resources is important, because the emergency really does always occur unexpectedly and there will never be the same emergency several times, because there are always certain differences. The more precise we see what resources can be covered by an emergency, the better prepared we are and the better able to respond to these very isolated cases. Fortunately, there have been very few cases with signs of an emergency in the Republic of Estonia that have regained independence; even the fingers of one hand remain on the list. We hope there will be even fewer in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U113	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U114	Good manager! Good waitress! Yes, of course it's sensitive information. We've decorated these silo towers quite beautifully, but there are troubles whether or not there are 80 kilometers in the Gulf of Finland. The difference between our standard of living and that of Finns is two or three times. If on one side of the bay there is a tens of thousands difference between these reserves, doesn't that worry?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U115	Thank you for your question. I understand what you're referring to. It is safe to say that our northern neighbour, Finland, is one of the most advanced countries in Europe and probably in the world when it comes to collecting supplies. They have developed a very specific model, a foundation-based, highly independent and independent model, which has also been supported in a good sense by certain features of the tax system in order to collect fat. As far as we know, a certain part of the specific excise duty in Finland is collected every year, for example, in this collection fund. Therefore, the resources that Finns can use each year are also very significant. Yes, I think this may be an example for us, but it will take years for a small country like Estonia to point to the difference in living standards. But we have an example, and it's very close, as you said.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U116	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In its letter of May last year, the Information Technology Business Association drew attention to the fact that there are only 13 names among vital services, while the concept of a service of general interest, which is fully enshrined in the law, is very broad and vague. After these changes, how do you assess whether the service of general interest is more understandable to every person and institution in Estonia within the meaning of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U118	Thank you very much for your question. I daresay it will become more and more understandable. As I pointed out in the answer to one question, even among officials, it takes time to realise that the regulation of the service of general interest, which has existed in Estonian law since 1 July 2014, is quite operational and usable. It's inevitable that every new thing takes time. You have now raised the issue of a small number of vital services remaining, and the rest are services of general interest. It seems reasonable to me that this hierarchy is the most priority services that form the basis for everything else, and services of general interest, for which we can solve problems, for example, under the law of the general part of the Code of Economic Activities. But the awareness of one or another change and the effectiveness of regulation must be constantly worked out. On page 11 of the explanatory memorandum, a little bit of the statement by ITL and the arguments against it are also taken to explain why, for example, a cable service provider has been included as a provider of services of general interest in Section 87 (5) of the Electronic Communications Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U119	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U120	Ladies and gentlemen, As I have already signalled, I think this law is necessary, but I still want to stop again on the ferry connection. The Emergency Act says that an emergency is an event or a chain of events or a disruption of a vital service that threatens the life or health of many people, causes serious material damage, serious damage to the environment, etc. The list contains a number of services that are important, which have been considered so important that they are listed one by one in § 36 "List of vital services and institutions organising their continuity'. These include electricity supply, liquid fuel supply, state-to-state driving, telephone service (I do not know how many of us today use landline services), including electronic identification and digital signing. Digital signing is a vital service. At the same time, there is no ferry connection or fixed connection to the islands. There are over 30000 inhabitants in Saaremaa, 9000 inhabitants in Hiiumaa. Imagine if Saaremaa or Hiiumaa does not have a ship for a week or two for whatever reason, whether there is something wrong with the ships, has problems or is an inappropriate natural condition, such as a very low water level, which has happened. This situation is not foreseen in this law. The answer has been that it is covered by another law, the general part of the Code of Economic Activities. Unfortunately, we have not had a more detailed view of how exactly this is covered by this other law, but I find it somewhat illogical. The possibility of digital signing in Saaremaa is as if more important than the availability of fuel and food, the availability of sick care, health care and medical services! I don't think that makes any sense. This topic was also raised during the previous Riigikogu composition. Then the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications demanded that it be recorded in the Emergency Act. The Ministry of the Interior has always opposed it for some reason, and now we're taking that provision out of this law. Why is that important? At the moment we have a new carrier, we should not be too afraid that a state-owned carrier will make any foolish decisions, but the law should be quite prudent. The last time we discussed this law, it was precisely that the state had major disputes with the carrier. It is extremely uncomfortable and, in fact, incorrect to amend the law when there is a dispute settlement at the same time. The laws should still be in place first. I think this is important because the Emergency Act and the list of vital services also impose certain obligations on service providers, they have to think about risk planning and emergencies and deal with prevention. This is perhaps the greatest benefit of this law, that there are specific responsibilities for specific services and tasks, who think through how the service operates in crisis situations, who is responsible and who is doing something. I'm not sure anyone's thinking about it with ferry connections. This is quite a complex and voluminous work and this obligation could arise directly from this law. We do not have problems with very small islands with air connections or smaller vessels, but these are not possible in the large islands in the event of a real emergency. I wanted to mark that, in my opinion, the deletion of this subject from this law is illogical. It could have been put here, but it probably won't be today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U121	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. 34 amendments to the draft 205 have been tabled and are all from the lead committee. Therefore, all of these have been taken into account; nevertheless, we must discuss them in plenary. So all the proposals of the commission are taken into account: first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33 and 34. If anyone thought there was going to be a 35th proposal, he was wrong because there are 34 amendments. Second reading of Bill 205 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U122	The second reading of the draft Act amending the Act on Unemployment Insurance initiated by the Social Affairs Committee begins. The rapporteur for the Social Affairs Committee is Monika Haukanõm, Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you the draft law amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 292. Its first reading took place more than two months ago, so let me speak very briefly about what this draft is about. The draft amends the procedure for receiving insurance benefits in the event of redundancy, namely, extending the range of people who are entitled to submit such applications. Ülle Madise's address to the Riigikogu and the Ministry of Social Affairs became the reason for this draft. The Chancellor of Justice drew attention to the fact that there are unjustified obstacles in the Unemployment Insurance Act which do not allow the redundant person to receive redundancy compensation if, for example, the employer has failed to submit a notification when acting maliciously. When this regulation, which is currently in force, was adopted, it was 2009. At that time, it was understandable and justified to believe that the employer would submit such a statement. Now we are in 2017 and we have taken a big step forward. The unemployment fund knows those persons who are made redundant, we have a working register, etc. Such a restriction can no longer be considered justified. Thus, this bill gives both the person who is made redundant and the unemployment fund the right to continue the procedure and, even if the employer does not submit the application, the person entitled can pay the unemployment benefit. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft at its three meetings. All parties were heard: Ministry of Social Affairs, Unemployment Insurance Fund and Chancellor of Justice. It should be noted that no amendments were tabled within the deadline for tabling amendments. There was a note about the bill and it was made by the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund. This remark was technical and it was proposed that the date of entry into force be postponed from 1 January to 1 April. The reason was that the unemployment fund needs more time to develop information technology. The Commission agreed by consensus to the proposal. The Commission also made a number of procedural decisions and I will read them to you. It was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 25 January today. Secondly, it was proposed to conclude the second reading and, if the second reading is completed here and now, to send the draft to the third reading by 8 February and put the draft to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U124	No questions for the waitress. Thank you, Monika Hawkhammer! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. There is one amendment to the bill 292 from the lead committee, which does not cause any problems. Second reading of Bill 292 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U125	The next item is the second reading of the Bill 318 on Amendment to the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Social Affairs Committee waitress Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U126	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, There's a bill 318 in front of you. I will remind you that according to the bill, the newborn is automatically added to the list of the mother's family doctor. The first reading of this draft was on 15 December and no amendments were tabled by the deadline for submitting amendments. However, one amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs itself. This concerns the entry into force of the draft. According to the original version of the draft law, the law should have entered into force at the beginning of this year, but the Commission proposes, for obvious reasons, that the law enter into force in general. Between the first and second readings, this bill was quite a work in progress. The Social Affairs Committee asked about the draft opinion of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors, Child Welfare Association, Estonian Health Insurance Fund and East Tallinn Central Hospital. We invited their representatives to the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs to discuss the draft together. All parties supported the purpose of the draft and the draft itself. Only the representative of East-Tallinn Central Hospital stated that, according to the explanatory memorandum, if the mother is not registered on the family doctor's list, the registration of the newborn into the family doctor's list must be carried out by the hospital's social worker with the Health Board, but the hospital cannot hold women in the maternity centre for as long as they make a digital application to add the child to the family doctor's list. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that the purpose of the draft was primarily to protect children and that in this case the Child Protection Act would also apply, which says that any person who notices a child in need should assist him or her. A child whose mother does not have a family doctor and whose mother also refuses to make a statement that his or her child will be on the list of family doctors is a child in need, a child needs to be employed, and authorities need to help him or her. At present, the Health Insurance Fund does not fund social work placements in hospitals, but in larger hospitals these posts have been created, as hospitals have to deal with social issues more and more. We asked the Health Insurance Fund to consider the possibility of financing hospital social workers specifically, as this is important today. In total, we discussed the draft at three meetings: 10, 16 and 23 January. The Commission proposed that this draft be put on the agenda today, 25 January and the second reading closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U127	You have questions. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U128	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It's a nice law designed to take better care of children. I know that young mothers go to family doctors with children. What about a mother who is not even on the family doctor list and whose child is now? How's that kid gonna get a family doctor anyway? Is there a mechanism here? Is it left to a purely family doctor, which he should perform in cooperation with the municipality? Is there a way to deal with such situations?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U129	Thank you for your question. The fact that a mother does not have a family doctor and a child has a family doctor does not mean that a mother cannot go to that family doctor with her child. Sure. The question is, is he going there? I understand that this was the real point of your question. Family doctors confirmed that this issue concerns a very, very small number of parents. In most cases, parents are very conscientious, have a family doctor and register the child on their family doctor list. It is important that the health care system cooperates with the social sector so that, for example, the family doctor knows the telephone number of the local social worker so that he does not have to look for it in a catalogue, but is handy. It is very important that these two areas work together.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U130	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You well described the legitimate approach of the East-Tallinn Central Hospital and said that the Commission, if I understood correctly, proposed that the Health Insurance Fund should consider financing this service. So is the entire procedural side of the hospital left to social workers and, in this sense, to cover the hospital itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U132	Thank you for your question. We were assured that social workers already exist in major hospitals and their costs are covered by administrative management costs. It cannot be said that it will only be borne by social workers. Social workers, in cooperation with the Health Board, must resolve this situation. There have been about 700 children in Estonia year after year who do not have a family doctor. The Health Board will handle all these cases personally, the employees will call, ask and set a deadline by which to find a family doctor, and check if a family doctor has been found. But every year, there's more and more kids who aren't registered. So it is certainly not just the responsibility of social workers, but it must be dealt with in cooperation with the Health Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U133	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U134	Good manager! Good waitress! I will continue on the same subject. There are 700 children who don't have a family doctor, but only East Tallinn Central Hospital says they can't take the job of keeping women in the maternity ward for as long as they make this digital application. Why is it that the East Tallinn Central Hospital fights the hooves here, whether they have so many children or such reluctant mothers, or whether the management there is somehow very self-righteous? Light it up a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U135	Thank you. Lee Tammemäe, representative of East Tallinn Central Hospital, confirmed that such cases are very, very rare. They'd rather be careful. If this burden increases, they will see the problem, but at present there are very few such parents. They didn't even seem to me to have been able to say the exact number of these cases, they've been so rare. Rather, it was a careful concern and attention, and we understood it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-25_U136	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Is there a desire to negotiate? That's not what you want. Examination of amendments. One amendment to the draft has been tabled. It has been presented by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendment. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 318. Second reading is complete. Thank you for today's workday. See you tomorrow at 10:00! Closure of the sitting at 3.05 p.m.
