ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 5th working week of the V plenary session. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U2	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! People's ambassadors Herkel, Hatter, Aru, Ammas, Haukanõm, Adams, Talvik and Lutsepp have written an inquiry to the Prime Minister. It will continue our series about how the map of Estonia will turn into after the administrative reform, what illogicalities the administrative reform contains and what corrections might be needed. More specifically, this question concerns Pärnumaa. Somewhere there was news that the city of Pärnu would be larger than many major cities in the world, but it would also take up large agricultural areas, swamps, bogs and forests. This can lead to practical problems, including what are cities and what are rural municipalities. But the bigger problem in our opinion is that Pärnu's substantive suburbs, both in the current Sauga municipality and Tahkuranna municipality, who are all connected with the municipality of Pärnu, have not been able to join it, they have been told no. In essence, we do not have such a thing as the self-determination of villages, write letters no matter how many, all the signatures you want. We find that this situation, which has developed in Pärnu County, is the whole illogical picture in which the city of Pärnu extends several tens of kilometres from the city's border, but the suburbs essentially do not join the city, is worth raising this question before the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U3	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U4	Honourable Chairman! The 11 members of the Reform Party Group have a question with the Minister for Social Protection Kaia Ivale. This concerns the loss of the Sõmera nursing home in the county of Saare in the municipality of West Island. This institution has been located there for more than 40 years, with more than 250 people of various levels of disability living there. However, it has now been concluded that in the coming years this nursing home should definitely be abolished, although these people there, the customers are used to this environment. Those people who live in Sõmera and also in Kärla are also used to the fact that such customers are there, walk around and visit a store or other establishments. Last autumn there was a serious debate in the town of Kuressaare, when it was discussed that actually some of the customers of those who can do more or less with themselves should be relocated to Kuressaare. This led to a genuine žiotage among the townspeople of Kuressaare. So we do not understand very clearly why it needs to be destroyed in this form. What is the reason? We also have questions about what happens to current residents of the nursing home, what happens to guardianship, and what message is passed on to 135 employees of the nursing home, what happens to them. What are the plans to do with buildings? Will the restructuring of the special care system and the construction of small family houses eliminate the order of special care services, where 425 people are currently waiting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U5	This is an inquiry. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U6	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! On behalf of seven members of the Free Party Group, I have an inquiry to report to the Minister for Public Administration, Mikhail Korb. The inquiry concerns the implementation of the property policy of the country that protects cultural goods. At the heart of this inquiry are some of the few objects we all have already heard and known about the future of the Liberty Manor, the Patarei buildings, certainly Porkuni manor, but there are also issues that concern fundamental views. How does Riigi Kinnisvara AS manage buildings on account of cultural heritage? Is there an implementation plan? Has it also been thoroughly analysed from the owner's point of view whether it is always reasonable to apply the maximum level of heritage protection requirements or whether the interests of the owner, both the preservation of cultural heritage and the preservation and environmental sustainability of the environment resulting from the preservation of its cultural heritage should be taken into account? Perhaps the state is not always the most appropriate or the most appropriate in terms of preservation based solely on construction costs and assessment of construction costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U7	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! I want to report an inquiry to Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tammele. We learned through the newspaper that the municipality government of Jõgeva intends to auction certain agricultural land, which is extremely important for the Estonian Plant Production Institute. This concerns research and development within the area of government of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, as well as crop breeding and agrotechnology research. As it accounts for almost 12% of the land used by the Institute for Plant Production, its activities in the region may be hit by the specific characteristics of plant production. We would therefore like to know from the Minister for Rural Affairs whether and what measures he is taking in order to maintain the possibility of continuing this activity there. In addition to the scientific potential, we are also interested in maintaining the Institute in the region and in people having jobs. We hope that the Minister, along with his good colleagues, will provide us with exhaustive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U9	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U10	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, I have the honour to present an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Research, Mailis Reps, regarding the granting of exceptions to the transition to Estonian-language education in Russian schools. We have to admit with great concern that the government has embarked on a path that undermines the position of Estonian language in Estonia. The minister has exceptionally promised to reduce the volume of Estonian language learning in some Russian schools. We therefore have some questions. Why has the Minister decided to allow exceptions to some Russian schools and to reduce the volume of transition to Estonian-language education on the basis of their requests? Allowing exceptions puts other schools in an unequal position who properly comply with the law. What are the reasons for this unequal treatment? The majority of the supporters of the Centre Party are Russian voters. Will their liking outweigh the interests of the Republic of Estonia and the values established by the Constitution? Paragraph 6 of the Constitution provides for the Estonian language as the official language of the Republic of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U11	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U12	Mr. Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will present today a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to increase the state guarantee granted to the Nordic Investment Bank. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Finance Sven Sester when dealing with the above-mentioned draft decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U13	No more wishes. One draft has been adopted and five inquiries have been made. We will proceed with them according to the Home and Working Procedures Act. Please, let's do the presence check! 84 members of the Riigikogu are present in the plenary session. Adoption of the agenda. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the 5th working week agenda of the V session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U14	The first question we have on the agenda is the question of Maris Lauri, Arto Aas, Aivar Sõerd, Yoko Alender, Terje Trei, Taavi Rõivas, Heidy Purga, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Urve Tiidus, Meelis Mälberg, Madis Milling, Kalle Laanet, Urmas Kruuse, Eerik-Niles Kross, Valdo Randpere, Igor Gräzin, Anne Sulling, Johannes Kert, Jürgen Ligi, Ants Laaneots, Jüri Jaanson, Remo Holsmer, Kristen Michal, Hanno Pevkur, Laine Randjärv and Liina Kersna. For all of them, Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U15	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, On 12 December last year, members of the Reform Party Group submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Research, Mailis Reps, concerning Estonian-language education in Russian-language schools. The question itself is as follows. There has been a political consensus in Estonia so far that the upper secondary school will become Estonian. National language learning will be increased at all levels of education, in particular to ensure the competitiveness of all young people and access to the same information space. The results of the state examinations show that upper secondary schools with Russian language of instruction fall under Estonian schools in terms of their results. Continuity and unambiguous messages from the state are a prerequisite for expanding Estonian-language learning. Unfortunately, there have been statements from the Centre Party, which is the party of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education, which challenge this consensus and allow the abolition of 60:40 claims. For example, the assistant mayor of Tallinn, the leading politician of the Central Party, Mikhail Kõlvart, who is responsible for education, has promised that the new government will soften language requirements for Russian-speaking upper secondary schools. The Minister has spoken about a pilot project allowing 60% of the requirement to deviate. These statements give rise to six questions, to which we expect substantive answers today. I would like to know more about why we want to change the language policy so far. Why does the Centre Party make different promises to Estonian and Russian speakers? How is the goal of education in Estonian and the early learning of Estonian viewed? Why is support for schools that are already strong rather than helping schools with challenging language learning? We also ask how the current government grants permission to study in Russian. The December questioning is still relevant today. In fact, the facts and events have confirmed that things are probably getting worse. This is demonstrated by the fact that according to the confirmation of the Minister of Education, the government authorises Russian-speaking schools to abandon 60:40 systems. And there are other circumstances. So let's hope for some substantive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U16	The Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps responds to the inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U17	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Indeed, I understand that very soon I will be here again before you, because there was another group today that would like to discuss this further. There is a lot of reason, and the reason is understandable because it is our national language. It is understandable to all that our focus is on how we can strengthen our knowledge of the language of the state. When the current coalition was put together, there was one principle that we agreed on from the beginning and that we are not going to retreat from for a moment. It is precisely that we do not change the principles in foreign and defence policy, citizenship and language policy. This is our consistent policy, and we will definitely stick to that. Now the questions you have asked and the answers. As a good colleague, Maris Lauri, read the questions out, I will only do five questions and then give my answer, which can then be supplemented in the debate form. If the questions are about the bill, I have a few more exciting numbers from the Ministry of Education and Research. First of all, the question is why we want to change the language policy so far. We certainly do not want to do this; Estonian as the official language is the fundamental foundation of all of us, the state. We have also written it into our constitution. Of course, the Ministry of Education and Research, which is responsible for language policy, follows it consistently. However, we are willing to look at bottlenecks and bring them out honestly. Over the years, we have had ample analysis of language skills bottlenecks and what should be given special attention. It is now clear that a number of activities have delivered some methodologies, several decisions have produced very good results over the years. The knowledge of the Estonian language has clearly improved; young people's understanding of national language learning has improved as well as parents' awareness. Action, however, also needs to be stepped up, for example, the methodological support provided nationally and a number of other such things, especially when we are talking about the third stage of primary school, the seventh, eighth and ninth grades. That is how we have decided to focus our attention on it, as you have certainly already heard, but I would like to emphasise here that we should start from September with a separate kindergarten and a third grade in comprehensive school and not so much focus on classes 10, 11 and 12. Especially given that we have enough to worry about. In reality, the general language skills of basic school are rather a bottleneck. I am not talking about the stronger young people who go from primary school to upper secondary school, but about those who go from primary school to either work life So we have no intention of amending the basic school and upper secondary school law. If you had the hope that you could debate it in this Chamber, the Government of the Republic will not delight you. You can, of course, discuss it here on the ground, but we will not change this section in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. We have decided that these so-called stronger schools could really participate in this programme, as the good questioner pointed out here, who would show that if basic school was systematically engaged in classes 7, 8 and 9 then, at the end of the upper secondary school, the results would be better, i.e. reaching the C1 level, which is, I recall, language proficiency. This high level also means that you are competitive on the labour market, because in a large number of disciplines, such as the public service and also in the wider service sector, C1 is necessary. So it is certainly extremely important in society. Your second question is about whether the ethnic groups, whom we really have in Estonia, are guaranteed opportunities to study their mother tongue and culture. As you know, many years ago we took that course. We took this attitude so that all those young people who are in other schools and have enough students there could also learn the language of their national minority and learn the culture. At the moment, we can say that it is rather guaranteed by the Sunday school network, for which there is public funding. Indeed, such groups are not currently open in all schools, especially in schools with Estonian language of instruction. The Ministry of Education has pointed out for several years that special attention must be paid to this. A year ago, we started this, completed the Russian language as a language learning programme for Russian-speaking young people studying at a school with an Estonian language. It's called "The Teaching School." I believe that the good questioners know this because there are two former ministers among you. I'm sure you're familiar with the "Teaching School." Every year, as you know, more and more young people, whose mother tongue and home language are Russian, go to Estonian-speaking schools. For them, the ordinary Russian language program is certainly not enough, as it is their native language. Paying special attention to this will benefit all of us. Third, you have asked why Estonian and Russian audiences are told different stories and are motivated to make bad choices. I hope everyone has realised today that the aim is to raise language skills from B1 to B2 by the end of primary school. Why are we talking about a pilot program? Because not all schools, especially primary schools, are, of course, prepared for this at the same time. If a country has developed such a systemic opportunity , and as you know, the last five-six-seven years have been discussed, how and with what measures this could be done, then it can be proposed to all schools wishing to participate in this programme. I assure you that in the last few weeks, there have been many schools who would like to take both the B1 and B2 language exams in primary school, six months apart. This interest has been shown by many schools. There are certainly no less informed parents there, because when we talk about B2 and C1, these are already levels where a parent must be very supportive. It is not only about language learning, it is clearly about involving our society in the broadest sense. Fourthly, you have paid attention to the question of whether stronger emphasis should not be placed on kindergarten and first class. Good questioners, I fully agree with you. We have compulsory language teaching in kindergarten since 2009, but we even find that the level and methodology of language learning, the practices used between the two, but sometimes, unfortunately, not so successful, are very varied in kindergartens. The aim is to map the situation with which the Ministry of Education and Research has dealt with this year. This is not the most extensive study, but we are trying to get as operational feedback from kindergartens as possible, in the broadest sense of the way they want us to improve. The Ministry of Education has also proposed that we support kindergarten with methodological material, in addition to what already exists. Of course, a lot has been done over the years, but there are still these bottlenecks in kindergartens. As for first class, the schools are very different here. I dare to assure you with full awareness that children in Russian from kindergartens, especially from the immersion of the tongue, often go to language immersion schools and more and more to Estonian-language schools. It can also be seen from the first classes that these schools are becoming increasingly popular, all schools are interested in strong students, with a very clear and strong emphasis on learning the Estonian language. Parents are very aware of this. What programs and methodologies do schools use exactly and with which rhythm they teach the Estonian language, while minimum requirements have been set in this respect, the state gives many more choices. As you know, the immersion is financed separately. In regions where the concentration of the non-Estonian population is very high, some schools also have separate funding. And this trend that, since the first grade, various methods have been used, including immersion, to strengthen the learning of the Estonian language, has indeed produced the best results. Next question. Why have we decided to reach very high C1 levels in only a few upper secondary schools instead of focusing on bottlenecks and B2 attainment in troubled schools? What I dare say about our education policy and what I am very pleased about is that, although it seems from time to time in this Chamber that if our Minister of Education changes, politics will also change, that education policy has still been relatively stable. This consistent policy has ensured that, according to international studies, our results have been good enough this year. We can deal with the weakest students and the strongest students at the same time. It doesn't matter whether there are Estonian-speaking schools or Russian-speaking schools. If the strongest schools need to be dealt with to set such a positive example, here we can give good examples. Of course, it is no secret that our children of concern, the weaker schools, are under constant attention. Among the weakest are not only Russian-speaking schools; there are certainly Estonian-speaking schools. This Estonian-Russian distinction is not so big here. On the side of the Ministry of Education, these problems have been mapped over the years by the level of language learning, and there is no news here. A vigorous wage increase is certainly a part of the problem-solving process, along with all kinds of educational methodological materials. As you know, the new European instruments are largely focused on continuing teacher training, which is certainly beneficial. And a general political mindset that motivates parents to support language learning is perhaps the most important thing. The idea of this pilot project or programme application is to set an example, but at the same time, as I have already emphasised and as you know, this basic school proficiency level has indeed been discussed for years. Specific proposals have been made for this. So we start softer, give it a chance, but I believe that quite a lot of schools are joining this initiative quite quickly. Finally, the question that upper secondary schools have been asked for permission to study in Russian several times before and whether we intend to respond with consent to requests for derogation. I now have no more information than what you have, i.e. that the care collections of the two schools have discussed their, let's say, the content of the reapplication. In what way and how does it end up at the local government level, is it only Tallinn municipality or someone in general? It is important to overemphasise the basic school and upper secondary school law: the exception must be justified. The Ministry of Education has repeatedly stated, and I, as a minister, also say here that we certainly do not make exceptions in the sense that we are allowing a deviation from 60 to 40 requirements, but are willing to consider participation in a national programme aimed at a higher level of language learning. Within this programme, we are prepared to consider flexibility, but it will then take place in a contractual relationship with a country where there are clear metrics during the six-year period, clear indicators. And as everyone understands, this also means a separate annual review of contractual relations. So this is definitely not the exception that might be used to thinking here. What kind of supporting educational resources or what kind of methodological material is needed here, unfortunately, I cannot say today, because we have not yet seen these applications either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U18	Questions for the Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, You are talking here about raising the level of language learning through these differences and pilot projects, but unfortunately, the leaders of these same schools have made the problem seem quite different in the public. For example, the head of study at the Russian Gymnasium in Central Tallinn has stated explicitly that the problem is that there is a shortage of teachers who would teach in Estonian. In essence, a similar statement has been made by the director of the Russian Lytseum of Tallinn City Hill, who himself refuses to give interviews in Estonian and completely demonstratively fulfilling the language requirement. It still puts your pretty expectations under very strong doubt. How do you comment on their claims?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U20	Thank you. I guess we've all been in politics long enough, and we know that every claim has a context. I have not seen the whole interview and I sincerely hope that the whole interview was not as juicy as those few statements that have been printed separately. I myself have not had the honour of discussing this with these two directors, because my first contact with the representatives of the Tallinn Education Board is not until next week. Just the news ran faster ahead before the Ministry of Education was able to analyze what our expectations for this program were. It is certainly a very political issue, it has been a political issue for decades, and given that local elections are coming, there will be all kinds of interpretations. What is our expectation and what we have clearly agreed in the coalition government is that when we discuss someone's request, we discuss it if it is justified, we discuss it when the aim is to raise the level of language skills. Whether the interest of the schools in these terms will diminish, we will certainly see that in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U21	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I had the opportunity to read in the inner-page product of the Centre Party how the Tallinn assistant mayor Mikhail Kõlvart says that the applications are coming and the advance agreements provide the basis for the conviction that they will be satisfied. In the same way, someone here who is performing under the same name as the Minister for Education and Science says that it has been agreed in principle that these requests will be accepted by the government this time. You say there will be no fundamental changes. Such requests have also been made in the past and have not yet been received. Don't you think this is a fundamental change now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U23	Thank you. No, it's not. So far, applicants have explained why they want to reduce the volume of language learning, or at least when the Government of the Republic said no, it has had the fear that if it were to be justified that teachers or the frame were not sufficiently prepared methodologically, the level of language learning could be questioned. If such doubts arise, I believe that it is quite difficult for the Government of the Republic to support these requests this time too. What I was able to say to the BNS with these two sentences was that, first of all, we have not seen any applications yet, but the requests must be justified. Secondly, applications can only be supported if they are based on our proposed programme. And thirdly, I said that if applications are based on the programme, I believe we will support them. If you put these three parts together, we'll just stand by. I don't have any information on how these schools have discussed what information has been received from the caretakers. Yeah, maybe it's just got into the public a little too soon before we've been able to deal with it peacefully in the Ministry of Education. Language policy expectations in society are still raising the level of language rather than wanting to talk about how in the city of Tallinn there are no teachers in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U24	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U25	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, We know about PISA tests that PISA tests are best performed by girls and PISA tests have been performed by Russian-speaking boys with the weakest results. The difference between the strongest and the weakest results is almost one academic year. When it comes to educational stratification at all, I think it is precisely this data that shows the weakness of our education system in terms of stratification. What do you think it's about? What is the Ministry of Education and Research planning to do to reduce such educational stratification?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U26	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, if we look at the positive side, we can conclude from this year's data that the gap between Estonian and Russian schools has significantly narrowed, just as the gap between boys and girls' results has narrowed. I think that's the first thing that's quite appropriate to stress. It is also particularly important here to highlight the nuance that has been less pronounced: this time, the data of boys and girls show that the gap in functional reading skills has been narrowed the most, largely due to the fact that the gap in the functional reading skills of boys and girls was drastically reduced in Russian schools. So if you do something about it and deal with it systematically, you can get very good results. Here, congratulations to all the teachers who understood this problem! Of course, this was accompanied by further training to deepen teachers' understanding of what functional reading skills mean, which are methods that can be used for boys. It worked. Where, unfortunately, there is still a year apart, natural resources are. This may be surprising in many ways, because we have always known that there are rather strong Russian-speaking schools in real and natural subjects. Unfortunately, data show that there has been such a negative shift in primary school and the results are worrying. This is one of the things that we can learn from PISA again -- it shows our bottlenecks. What chance do we have here? The first and easier option is to pay particular attention to it, while the other side is to analyse the same thing. This has been a political dispute in many respects, because nature education is one of the subjects taught in Estonian in many Russian schools, and now the question is whether teachers have not acquired the subject or are not able to explain the subject well enough whether the vocabulary base has been worse. I'm sure that's one thing we have to admit. We do not change our policy, but perhaps we need to offer some additional support here so that the level of knowledge of natural resources does not suffer. I believe that you have definitely encountered some worried mothers who say that they cannot explain one or the other weather term to a child in Estonian, for example, because they themselves do not understand such terminology. It must be said that perhaps we should adjust a little more terms; nature education in Estonian is often too difficult for smaller children. Perhaps we would need more of this adjustment and clarification. It's actually useful both ways. There will be no such glitch that the language is impossible, that the Estonian language simply does not speak. There's a lot of things here. But we see that if we do one thing systemically, there will be a result. This was demonstrated by an improvement in reading skills. Surely there is reason to do the same with natural resources. As the good questioner knows very well because of his interest, it is certainly important to pay particular attention to Russian schools and to involve them fully in the whole area of LTT subjects, especially when it comes to information technology. They're much less involved now than we'd like.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U27	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You have never been Minister of Education before, and in fact you would have been able to solve this problem even at that time in the form of a immersion. The first flights would have stopped now and the question of Estonian would not have been asked. Does it not seem to you that in those municipalities where the Centre Party has been in power for a long time, it is now also in power in the country, it has tolerated a certain attitude towards learning the Estonian language? Where do you get the courage and confidence to say that the advance agreements that have already been concluded with the city of Tallinn will probably not be effective or effective? It seems to me that it has been decided in advance that these exceptions will come. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U29	Thank you. This information is true that I have never been Minister of Education, and once I have also been Minister of Education and Science, both roles have been. Would it have been possible to solve this problem at the time? We have always dreamed of simplified solutions. The best result has been that, year after year, the understanding that the Estonian language has to be understood has become stronger. After all, there is no more question, no matter what kindergarten, school or work environment you go to, there is an understanding everywhere that you must try to speak Estonian. So there are definitely positive changes here. For example, you're right about the immersion. There is a great deal of use of early immersion, but it is not the only method, there are also many other language learning methodologies, which are at least equally effective. As far as the sources of funding are concerned, I do not dare to read all of them here, but they have been international as well as within Estonia. The students who started these programs in their own time are now parents, perhaps not the grandparents of the child, but they are almost getting there. So, for generations, language training has been completed. We can also talk about this debate at 60:40. When, at the beginning, let's say 20 years ago, there were discussions about what upper secondary school education should be in Estonian, there was a confrontation. And since we knew that there was also a very lively discussion on this issue in Latvia, we too were afraid of very large demonstrations here. Since then, we have moved very much forward. Today there are schools where either bilingual education is applied or where children in Estonian and Russian study very much in the same schoolhouse. Young people in other languages who study in Estonian upper secondary schools are 624 and children who go to school where half or more are taught in Estonian and where the majority of children are in Estonian, are 1516. So there are a variety of programs, very, very many programs. I dare not say that there is now a real immersion in upper secondary school, that late immersion is still more at the end of primary school, but it is a materially, systematically structured, meaningful activity, where some subjects are taught in Estonian from the first grade. This system works. I believe that this was also the reason why one downtown school, despite the Council's proposal, replied in the negative. They said that they no longer needed such an exception, that they had a system so built up from the start that the language level of young people who reached upper secondary school was very good. And when we look at the results of the National Language Examination, their level is really very good. I wouldn't be pessimistic. I wouldn't think the results were bad. If you take the B2 exam alone, which will be taken at the end of the upper secondary school, then according to 2016 data, 64% made it more than 75 points. In other words, the criticism that, for all young people in other languages, the subject of such a special attitude or loyalty, as has sometimes been heard here, certainly does not correspond to reality. And if you add those who have gained more than 60%, that's plus 19%, then we can rejoice. If only less than ten years ago there were almost a third of those young people who did not do well on the language test, now this is the 17% threshold for very good results. So there has been a very, very systematic development in reality and some deep concern that language learning is poor, we do not, but unfortunately it does not apply to 17% of all schools. One of your questions was how we pay special attention to some schools. I'm sure that's what we're gonna do. The reform of upper secondary schools and the emergence of state secondary schools now include Kohtla-Järve, in addition to Jõhvi, where Estonian and Russian children study at one school, will certainly increase opportunities to learn the Estonian language strengthened in Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U30	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. There would be an enormous number of questions, starting with kindergartens and language learning and ending with the film politics of Russian schools and the qualifications and minds of teachers, but I ask you something else. Namely, I heard a radio interview that was made with you that the government is ready to open Russian schools in Estonian cities and places where they are not presently available. Did I get something wrong? I think you also mentioned the city of Rakvere in this context. Did I misunderstand something or what government plans are?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U32	Thank you. I'm sorry if there's something wrong with what I'm saying! What we discussed in Rakvere is that the idea of creating state gymnasiums is that they should be provincial, but in Lääne-Viru county, young people in Russian are not currently studying in Rakvere. Then the question came about whether we would consider teaching Russian children in Rakvere, or whether it was important to enter into such an agreement with Tapa, for example, that at some point Russian young people could study in Tapa, and it would be as if Rakvere State Gymnasium. No, we certainly do not intend to open new schools, but this was a purely national high school issue. As you know, at present only a protocol of common intent has been signed. Lääne-Virumaa is one of the last counties willing to discuss the creation of a state secondary school, and there are a lot of questions about the upper secondary school network, etc. In what time will the situation be clarified in Lääne-Virumaa and where eventually the young people in Russian will remain, whether they will all go on to study in Estonian schools or whether some children will go on to study in Jõhvi or Kohtla-Järve, I cannot answer that today. However, we do not have any plans to open separate schools in the local government, except for this decision relating to the state secondary school programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U33	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. It was nice to hear the pretty percentages and that language learning was starting in early years. But in this afternoon's radio broadcast led by Arp Müller, the notes were that teaching was very busy, because teachers' quality was poor be given home assignments in broken Estonian and so on. The question is: what about Estonian teachers? In regular schools, it's about teachers, and now it's about Russian schools. How can it be maintained at 60:40? I guess there is no alternative here when we talk about improving language learning, there can be no concessions in 60:40.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U35	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, I guess we're gonna have a wider discussion here about the future reform of upper secondary schools. At one point, the decision was that state high schools would come. Now some counties have taken quite a firm step in this matter; in some counties alternative municipal secondary schools are still very viable. If we look at the establishment of very large and robust state secondary schools in the long term, we take the same state secondary school in Narva or Kohtla-Järve, for example, and there are also strong municipal secondary schools, then the state must take responsibility there. If the state gymnasium is already in place and, for example, the level of teaching of the Estonian language does not correspond to what we have been waiting for, then the levers used are certainly more powerful, because the state as owner must also be responsible, how and why this has happened. As far as teacher quality is concerned, that's why we have training programs. In general, we can say that our teachers are very good, that our teachers are able to give their subject professionally. But, of course, there is no secret to this, as demonstrated by both our own data and our continuous external evaluation, that, unfortunately, some schools have quality problems. And it does not depend on whether the schools are Estonian or Russian. As far as the knowledge of Estonian is concerned, the Language Inspectorate is working consistently on this. Feedback from parents is quite varied. In Ida-Virumaa, in particular, finding teachers who speak Estonian and also teachers of Estonian is a major challenge. There has often been criticism from local authorities that recognition and special attention, which was very strongly linked to pay in the early 1990s, have been disappearing over time; this has remained at the level of individual schools. The creation and strengthening of a teaching community in Estonian would require additional attention in kindergartens and comprehensive schools as well as in upper secondary schools. But as I said, state secondary schools are also being born in Ida-Virumaa and this will certainly change the picture significantly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U36	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U37	Thank you, Madam Minister of Education. I came to realize that society is mature to talk about Estonian-language comprehensive school and kindergarten. You started talking about exceptions in Russian for upper secondary school. When I asked my experts, in particular the experts of the Ministry of Education, they said that there was no need for exceptions and that it was not necessary, that it was separating schools and that it was a bad idea. In this sense, your views are disappointing and experts cannot justify them. They say they don't know what you're up to. And today it seems that you do not know exactly, but you have already signaled the Russian-speaking electorate. How do you like the picture that your applications are symbolized by the headmaster, who ignores language requirements and basically treats speaking in Estonian derogatoryly? So he's the one who should get that exception.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U38	First of all, regarding the specialists of the Ministry of Education and Research, I believe you have received absolutely correct information. The Ministry of Education really does have a lot of this ignorance, because we are still preparing a program. As far as we know, we have until the beginning of the summer. We have discussed several times in the Ministry what taking language skills to a higher level in comprehensive school and upper secondary school could mean, and what kind of mappings we need in addition to the many that have already been done. But that's exactly how far we'd come when we started asking what the decision was then. That's why you're right. I, too, cannot tell you today what wording applications come from, which schools they come from, whether they come only in the city of Tallinn or whether there are other applicants. Yes, we are in a similar state here today, on the one hand, and on the other side of the hall, this information has rather come from the media and from the public. As for the way a Russian person speaks Estonian, our tolerance is very different here. We often give great credit to people who speak Estonian, even though they do not have grammatically everything so accurate. However, there have also been some rather sad experiences. I remember a school principal, and they made songs about him. Since he was the headmaster of the state school at the time, I know that he had indeed gone through language courses and also passed the exam very well. However, the language was wrong; it was not that he was unable to speak in Estonian. Well, that's a question of sensitivity, why doesn't a person feel good about giving an interview in another language, I wouldn't take it as a political statement. After one failed interview, I didn't give interviews in Russian for many years. I thought for a very long time before I made a decision that I was still trying to speak a language that I didn't know very well. I wouldn't jump to any conclusions on that. A person may not feel so free in Estonian, but I have had the honour to speak to him in Estonian and did it. I don't know how to make a political assessment of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U39	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U40	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. There are several questions. Firstly, I would really like to clarify the previous question. Can you confirm that Narva or Jõhvi will not come to a state gymnasium in Russian, or are they still planning to do Russian state gymnasiums there? Secondly, if it is as you have repeatedly emphasised that Russian young people and Russian families have understood the need for Estonian language skills and the level of language skills is constantly increasing, why must the system be changed? Why change something that's not broken or that's still progressing? Thirdly, I have a very specific question. We are talking here about the importance of the Estonian language, the need for this skill and how it is in the Constitution and how we all love and hold that language. Let me give you two examples. In the 9th grade of the 21st high school there are three Russian lessons a week and two Estonian lessons, with the Estonian language exam coming in spring. The Estonian literature class at Kivimäe Elementary School uses Russian-language material about Estonian literature. These are things that bother us. How do you feel when there are more Russian lessons in Estonian school than there are Estonian lessons?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U41	Thank you, good questioner! I have now come to the end of the three questions contained in one question. As for the 21st High School or Kivimäe Elementary School, thank you for specifying that these are Estonian-language schools! It can be decided that the state examination or the comprehensive school final examination will be prepared within 9 or 12 years. And at least in upper secondary school, there's a course-based structure. This also means that at upper secondary school, the school can build up a system where more languages are learned during a period, for example, in the next period. I wouldn't dare make any conclusions from six months now. But if that's what you're interested in, I'd be happy to ask you why this topic got up. The volume of Estonian language learning in primary school is not at all such that it can be reduced to two hours per week; it is simply not possible. In such a case, either one year should study it particularly intensively or one year will be divided in such a way that the Estonian language will be dealt with more systematically and intensively in one semester, while in the second half more other subjects will be taken. There must certainly be some explanation, not just that children are not taught Estonian. Especially considering that both in primary and upper secondary schools, they pass the final examination of Estonian language. Parents and teachers are very aware of what subjects the exam will take. In both cases, it is certainly a very strong school, so I have no doubt that they do not know the curriculum. Is something broken or not? I tried to be optimistic. There's nothing broken in the system, but there are troubles and bottlenecks. One of them is that the language level of all our primary school students is not as happy as the numbers I mentioned about the upper secondary school. As the good questioner Jürgen Ligi said here, and as many others have pointed out, we should start from the bottom. The Ministry of Education has not changed anything in this respect in language policy either. The attitude is that paying attention to the end of high school is definitely fun, but in fact, we can make changes when we go down. At the end of comprehensive school, language levels vary too much both from school to graduate. There's this bottleneck. Is something broken in high school? No, it's not. There has been a very long political debate where it has been found that schools themselves should be able to focus more on their language learning programmes and other subject programmes in cooperation with the Ministry of Education. We are willing to consider this in the case of a couple of schools, but only to the extent that they show that their own choices are argued, methodically justified and yield a better result. If, as a result of the annual cooperation, we can see that there are other reasons, then we will come back to this issue. Was there anything left unanswered about the three questions? Right, state high schools. In the case of state upper secondary schools, the basic school and upper secondary school law contains nothing more than the fact that they are taught in Estonian. If you look at what is happening in Jõhvi, there are Russian-speaking children, there are Estonian-speaking children and the teaching is done together in languages. So some subjects are only in Estonian and some subjects are also offered in Russian. Interestingly, when we look at the attitude of parents, many children in Estonian have started to study some subjects in Russian in order to improve Russian skills again. This is certainly a good thing for a foreign language. So Narva and Kohtla-Järve still have exactly the same plan. We have Estonian-speaking and Russian-speaking children or young people, and since the country owns the country, it is certainly possible to organise everything over time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U42	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You said very clearly here today that when these applications are submitted, the Ministry will examine the applications and will certainly support them if they are aimed at improving language learning. At the same time, the heads of schools interviewed by the ERR have indeed made it clear that their problem, why they have failed to comply with the law, is the quality of teachers. Does the Ministry of Education have any overview of the serious problem of the quality of the work of teachers in Russian-speaking schools, their language skills? Have such studies been carried out? Do you think there has been enough training for these teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U44	Thank you. As far as the level of Estonian language teachers is concerned, it has been closely monitored by the Language Inspectorate for years and has also been done more widely. This was addressed even before they were mentioned in percentage terms. What might need to be strengthened, as well as feedback on this, is the use of newer and more exciting methodologies for teaching other foreign languages. Teaching the Estonian language tends to be a little traditional. We have information technology tools, there are all kinds of other exciting opportunities, and in the end, practice can also be organised in a slightly different way in Estonia. It has been said that more phonetics laboratories could be used and more emphasis could be placed on pure pronunciation. This is true when we talk about teaching the Estonian language. However, the problem is that when it was agreed in a debate a few years ago that the transition from 2007 would begin, there were indeed two basically different directions. As a minister at the time, I proposed that the state could be responsible and partner in proposing methodological materials by substance, along with simplified vocabulary and teacher training opportunities. The idea was that we would move on by substance, being there all the time and watching that those teachers who are going to give some specialty in Estonian possess it. There were elections, there were different directions, and then it was decided that such state intervention was not necessary. It's better if we tell the schools that the ratio is 60 to 40, and the school decides what substance and to what extent it chooses and what methodology is used. I am not going to hide that I think my proposal was better in the sense that then the state would have systematically kept its hand on the pulse all the time. To date, it has become apparent that knowledge of the subject varies from time to time and that the language level of teachers who teach in Estonian also varies, unfortunately. There are, unfortunately, a bit of perilous examples that the media, of course, very much loves. Generally speaking, the language level of teachers who come into immersion is good. Very many electives are taught in the Estonian language, which employs lecturers who speak Estonian very well or speak it as a native language. But yes, there are also teachers with very poor Estonian language. By all the standards, by refresher training and language exams, they may be very good, but if you're watching the class, no matter how hard they are and with all due respect for them, I wouldn't want to be taught that level of language. So, yes, unfortunately, the level varies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U45	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Education and Science! You can only agree that, since 2007 when 60:40 principles were introduced, language skills have become increasingly better. This is also demonstrated by the results of the examination, according to which the level of B2 exams has increased significantly over the last five to six years. At the same time, information has come through that at least three schools apply for an exemption. They say it's too difficult for them. Each applicant for an exemption is expected to receive a grant of EUR 250000 to promote language learning, which means that the budget provides for a budget of EUR 1 million. It is as if we reward Estonian for cutting down on learning and improving the language skills so vaguely. At the same time, those schools that have complied very well with the law do not receive such attention and praise. Aren't we gonna give the wrong message, don't follow the law, and then we're gonna give you the money so you can start doing it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U47	Thank you for a very good question. Indeed, in this million euros we agreed to raise language levels at the end of primary school from B1 to B2 and at the end of upper secondary school from B2 to C1, while also analysing what are bottlenecks and where this support is needed. How exactly, who is rewarded and on which basis, I am not able to respond today. I am trying to answer all the questions and to answer them thoroughly, but we have not been able to analyse the current situation in the Ministry of Education. Over the years, we have carried out a whole series of analyses, if not to say, even studies where we should draw out what these bottlenecks are, where we could channel the money. Whether this money should be directed to these few schools or I don't know how many there are, or we are proposing more broadly that it should go on a methodological basis, which can be used by other schools, I do not dare to reply to that today either. We have now agreed that this money will certainly not only go to reward one school, but it will be for some additional material, for some things that we do not have yet to look at by our teachers. We have a lot of things where we just need to analyze, maybe we need to do a reprint of some things, etc. What exactly are these needs, perhaps when I come to answer questions from the next group, I already have a little more information.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U48	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Good Mailis! You have spoken about many bottlenecks here, but I also have this experience in a professional way, when I have been in contact with many of the management and parents of schools with Russian language of instruction, that the biggest problem is attitude. And just the manager's attitude, maybe the director's. The obvious thing is that in these Russian-language schools, where the director either speaks Estonian or is Estonian himself, the attitude towards learning Estonian is different from those in the schools where the director does not speak Estonian or does not want to speak it. I have a very good example from Tartu, Tartu Annelinna Gymnasium, where Director Hiie Asser has developed an excellent methodology. Children are more or less alike prepared across Estonia. How, then, can you study certain subjects in Estonian and Estonian in one school and not in another school? What is the ministry's attitude on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U50	Thank you. I would emphasise this and the word that you also emphasised in your question. I believe that neither our state gymnasiums nor local authorities will choose school principals and school leaders according to ethnicity, but they have, yes, rather high language skills requirements. From the point of view of mind, this spirit must be respectful not only of the language and state, say, structure and practices, but also of the broader sense of respect is certainly important. We have also experienced a different situation where we have put a very clear emphasis on language skills in some schools, but later the atmosphere in the school has become very acute, because in addition to language skills, there are other foundations for creating the school atmosphere. Yes, very good examples are given on the one hand and on the other. There are also examples where the Russian-language school has grown out of this school, a director who has a very good record of continuing training and with a very respectful attitude. And there are also school principals whose school has, for example, a immersion in language, but the director himself is ashamed of his language skills, but there is no question of mind. So I don't really want to get into the same thing here. With regard to the Lyceum of Lasnamäe, which has been said a lot today, there is no question about this level of study. If we look at the results of their state examination of Estonian, there is no question either. I believe that there is rather a broader context in which these contradictions have come from and remain. This has always been a purely political issue. However, when it comes to the school's level of study, the quality of the school according to the external assessment is not a problem, and the quality of the Estonian language is not a problem. If you remember, at the time when the animal was born in Estonia, the reason why some schools became lyceum was also found to be a very good level of school education. Yeah, things aren't always connected in that sense. The quality of language learning is good there. And I think that's why they dare to offer themselves as one of those schools that would like to teach language at an even higher level in primary school. But the competitions for heads of state gymnasiums are ongoing, there are always ads that the minister must sign. Fortunately, no one says that the candidate should be ethnically Estonian, but language requirements are, of course, very high under the language law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U51	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U52	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I would like to continue with the question of my colleague Krista Aru and perhaps to get a little more detailed than is possible. Are there data available on which subjects the teachers who can provide in Estonian are most lacking so that the ratio of 60 to 40 can be achieved in schools? And if there is any such information, is there a plan to help here? Whether the ministry still has any interesting ideas, for example, 'Youth School! 'for a type of enterprise, such as 'Estonians teach Russian school' or something like that? Or is it so hopeless in itself, given the attitude and mentality that it may not be easy for a young Estonian teacher to get into and stay in a Russian school at all, and everything goes by itself? Do you see a way to get involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U53	Thank you, good questioner! These substances that are offered, especially when we are talking about a programme of immersion, where there is a national system behind it, are, of course, very precisely mapped out. And the language immersion, as the good questioner knows, is very clear about its methodology, where, in addition to the language teacher, there are also helping teachers and other systems. I don't have the guts to map out if there's a lot of class teachers missing. According to this program, teaching the subject in Estonian is done only if the teacher is firmly established. It goes so far that it's a teacher and then a subject. Since schools choose how to solve this percentage issue, there is generally a great deal of emphasis on the various electives and courses that are also offered. Very often, courses or electives are also offered by a teacher who comes from a secondary school, if you are in an area where the Estonian-language school is near or if you are a practitioner. So rather 'Back to school! ' as 'Youth in School! ' '. There is a great deal of economic and business education, for example, which seeks to find a wake-up entrepreneur who speaks Estonian as his native language or is so accustomed to the system that he really knows the language. There may even be members of the Riigikogu who have been invited to teach one or the other subject, but then rather as an educator and for a period of time. There's, yeah, the emphasis on looking for someone to teach a elective to or offer an additional course. For example, even in mathematics or science, there are many optional courses in addition to the basic course, which are all in Estonian. Where are the bottlenecks? In addition to teachers, it is also teaching material. It's been a difficult dilemma. Very often, you are viewed as simply taking Estonian textbooks. But Estonian-language upper secondary school textbooks are sometimes too complex, with no material to explain the vocabulary. There has also been an attitude at the level of basic schools that if the material provided by the comprehensive school is not suitable, use the simplified curriculum material. Schools have adopted this recommendation politically very sensitively, in which sense it has suddenly been said that simplified material with a second target could be used. Yes, teaching material has been a very clear picture of bottlenecks.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U54	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! When you answered our question, you did not actually answer the second question, or at least did not answer the whole question, but you talked about how you could learn all kinds of things from other cultures. The question was that I'm going to rephrase it a little bit, then you might understand better when you think Estonia is going to get into a situation where we have all the schools in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U56	There will never be a time in the Republic of Estonia where all schools are compulsory in Estonian. After all, we also have private education, and in private education we allow several languages to be taught. As you know, there are a number of foreign language schools in Estonia. In addition, we have a European school and an international school; we do not have IB lessons. If you mean mostly Estonian-language education, that's a little different. Now, when it comes to upper secondary school, that's a good question. If we move forward step by step with state secondary schools, we will see how these processes move forward. Ida-Viru County is more of a tight spot. I believe that Narva State High School will be a major challenge for the country. In order for us to make some substantial positive change with the Narva State Gymnasium, major changes of principle are needed. Can the state cope with this challenge? I look forward to it. It is clear that this is one of the most difficult regions. Since there are just so few Estonian-speaking residents, there are considerably fewer internships outside the school and therefore we need to create these opportunities in the upper secondary school. Would we be willing to say at some point that all schools are working in Estonian? I don't know about that date today. During the almost 30 years when we have built up the Estonian state here with great hopes, one can, of course, ask whether we actually dreamed about the republic 30 years ago, the issue of language and school education has unfortunately not been educational. In education policy, the language issue is relatively easy to solve: you start from a small age, teach, support and, if necessary, offer support systems. But this issue has always been political. And as long as he's political, it's certainly difficult to solve. Let's take the same percentages. I believe that if we had approached differently instead of setting these percentages, we would have gotten the result even faster. At that point, however, it was decided that we would put the percentage and the content side in second order. This is why schools vary greatly. On the side of kindergartens, I would say that in society, bilateral immersion is quite well received. Maybe we'll get there someday. For example, the idea of such a multilingual school environment is very common among Dutch people. One is, of course, the official language, but other languages are also used in the course of study, which provides skills in several languages. This is how the European school is structured. Which model will be exactly in Estonia? This can be said pedagogically, the university has analysed it and proposed solutions; there is no need to come up with new models here. However, politics usually comes between.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U57	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U58	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. The Institute of Human Rights and Turku Studies AS carried out a study, the results of which showed that Russian-speaking people living in Estonia would prefer Estonian-language schools themselves. This study involved 1,000 people. The position that in the future all students could study together in Estonian-language schools, where Russian-language education would be one of the chosen directions, was supported by 67% of Russian-speaking residents in relation to upper secondary school and 60% in relation to primary school. The introduction of these new derogations is now moving in the clear opposite direction. Linguist Mart Rannut has also been very critical of the exceptions you allow. Which scientists in the whole world and from which country have you been advised about exceptions for political reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U59	Thank you. Firstly, as far as Mr Rannut or other linguists are concerned, if they had the information we are actually talking about in this Chamber at the time of asking for this comment, i.e. we are talking about raising the level of language learning, this Beach would certainly be supported. Beach has always talked about such calm and very systematic development of language learning methodologies. I'm pretty sure of that. Who advises us? The Ministry of Education and Research cooperates continuously with two universities. And if you think about it more broadly in this Chamber, there have been ever talk about it, we have at least five embassies, starting with the United States and ending with embassies from a number of European countries, who have supported these programmes, immersion and other language learning programmes implemented in Ida-Viru County, in addition to our own resources and European Union funds. We certainly have a great deal of support for strengthening and developing language learning. Now, 60% of Russian-speaking residents who responded to the survey are in favour of studying in Estonian-speaking schools. Let's say that in Narva, studying at an Estonian-language school is really a little limited, because the Estonian-language community, as you know, keeps its school there for another reason. For the rest of the region, for example, about Tallinn, it can be said that there is nothing to prevent a child from going to Estonian school. If, for example, your data is true in Tallinn, then it is likely that Russian children will go to Estonian school explosively here. The real situation is not this; they still prefer to go to a Russian-speaking school where there is a very intensive and systematic study of Estonian language. For example, the language immersion program or 50: 50 programmes since the first classes are deliberately chosen, and we also see it in kindergartens. So it's different how schools are appointed, especially in local governments. Yes, if the parent himself has not appointed his or her child to school, his or her home language will be used. But this system, for example in the city of Tallinn, still requires that the parent tells his or her preference first. For those Russian-speaking families who want to put the child in an Estonian-language school, this possibility is guaranteed. So there are children, but not as much in proportion as 60%, there are perhaps 101⁄2 percent of them each year, not more.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U60	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U61	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! In the last two years, 10,000 people from third countries have come to Estonia, from Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, and it is clearly harder to cope in Tallinn, for example, than in the past. In the new academic year, a bilingual open school will be opened as a pilot project in Tallinn, where each teacher will only communicate with children in his own language. Most recently, bilingual schools were created during the Soviet occupation under the leadership of a very active russian, Minister of Education Elsa Grechkina. The Estonian government and the Minister of Education have now taken over this message stick. It is clear that bilingual schools have the effect of integrating Estonian children towards the Russian population rather than vice versa. Is that the aim, and do you recognise here the contradiction with the Constitution and the Language Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U62	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, this school you're referring to is a private school. I've only been in contact with this school through the media. I do not have the honour of being one of his initiators, nor have I in any way counseled him in substance. The curriculum was, of course, submitted to the Ministry of Education and is under review. But the fact that they offer a bilateral immersion is neither new nor surprising. This bilateral immersion is used in the schools that I mentioned here and where both Estonian and Russian language courses are held, where Estonian and Russian children are in a schoolhouse. In general, this school house is spoken in Estonian, we take the list of schools in Valga, Kehra, Kiviõli, Peipsi, Paldiski, Keila, Pärnu, Jõhvi and Loksa, but at the same time it is customary that a teacher can approach children in Russian, for example, in Russian. The idea of an open school is a little different. As far as I understand through the media, he offers the opportunity not only to look at Russian children but also to look at the area, but also to Estonian children whose parents want their children to learn in such a bilingual environment. There's nothing I can say about Russification. First of all, it's a private school, and secondly, it's a public policy to read out of here... If it is your proposal that the Minister of Education and Research should not grant a licence to an open school when reviewing the school programme and the training permit, then I am in the mind here for a moment. These initiators are an exciting people, they want to start with a couple of dozen children, and parents are very interested. It is certainly not possible to read out of here any major national policy that we are obliged to introduce Russian into all schools. We are still free to choose a foreign language, schools can freely choose A and B languages. According to statistics, English is currently chosen. Yes, Russian as a second, B-foreign language has already come from German, which is a source of great concern to German supporters. The knowledge that we could learn more Russian has grown in society, but yes, it is chosen rather than B-foreign. Foreign language A is clearly English in most schools. I don't see any major political change here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U63	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U64	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I have been assured by some members of the Centre Party that this is an exceptional decision, i.e. one-off exceptions, one-off expenditure of one million. We have talked a lot about various examples so that we do not want to artificially divide society. Doesn't making this exception, first of all, create a gap between Estonian and Russian communities? After all, it is assumed that if you live in an Estonian country, you will also respect our language and culture and try to do everything you can to manage our national language. Second of all, isn't there a gap in the Russian community? As far as I know, three schools in Tallinn and one school in Narva will be exempted. Then others wonder why they will be punished.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U65	Thank you. First of all, the question of who is the exact exception. So far, the applications have not reached the level of the Government of the Republic and the Ministry does not yet have a full overview. There is only such information that this subject has been discussed in two collections of care. It is possible that there will be more care bodies who are discussing it and who will eventually have to choose one or another local government council. We have limited the number of exceptions, so they can certainly be a few. We've talked about three or four schools at most, not more. The reason is simply that we would otherwise go into some kind of systemic change, in which we are currently not ready to assess what it will bring about in the language policy and how well we can prepare for a higher level of language. We do not want to create a situation where children's fear of a language exam can hinder their further learning. At present, however, the requirements remain B1 and B2. Are we gonna split society? Yes, I think that these debates and such a political glare on this subject are to be expected and will certainly divide. But there's nothing surprising here. This is an issue that has been debated in society for a very long time. However, the point of our programme is the opposite. To recall the discussions of such influential advocates of Russian-speaking schools here more than ten years ago, from the beginning it was all the time that, if schools could choose their own subjects and the rhythm of progress, and if the country were to help with its own support, it would be much faster to achieve better results. The point of the initiative was that if one school or another can prove that it is able to achieve better results faster and more forcefully in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, we will listen to these schools and we will be happy to cooperate. How effective this is, we monitor it every year or, in fact, all the time. And it is not something that has been cut into stone, because if it is seen very quickly that the programme has no results, we will, of course, review these decisions again.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U66	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U67	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You have been telling us here today all along about the transition to state secondary schools, but the Minister of Administration has claimed that the current government is perhaps going to direct the transition of state secondary schools to state secondary schools. So how is this thing? I'm a little confused about which one to believe now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U68	Thank you. Well, then, we'll have a little faith in everyone. The offer that has come to the table of the Government of the Republic for discussion is very ambitious. Its content is that apart from the major administrative reform, if there are just over 70 municipalities left in Estonia, the change is so great that we would like to see local governments as larger partners. In this, all political parties have agreed that when we talk about content in the case of local government, content cannot simply be an increase in one or the other earmarking, but should be greater confidence at local government level. To this end, the Minister of Public Administration, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, has analysed a number of areas and proposed to the ministers of the sector a number of things that could be transferred to the local government, from various inspections and inspections to health, social affairs and education. In the field of education, it has been very ambitiously pointed out that funding for all education could go to local authorities under certain conditions. Instead of dedicated lines, there could be a general revenue base on which the municipality could decide for itself. It is proposed that, for example, schools, vocational schools and state secondary schools for children with special needs should be transferred. How has the Ministry of Education responded now? We have responded that these are all exciting initiatives and we are analysing them thoroughly. That is indeed what we are doing. Each proposal has its own reasoning, but from the local government side, it also has its own risks. I believe this is a debate we could have in this Chamber sometime later. For example, the question of vocational schools: do they fall under local government or, as in the Nordic countries, do they fall under local government associations? How do we solve the issue of vocational schools that are all-Estonian, such as the Luua Forestry School? There are also schools in the agricultural sector that serve the whole of Estonia. This is not the level of a single local government. In the case of state secondary schools, the primary answer is, which I will now repeat here, that the process of state secondary schools will run until 2020‐2021. During this time, we will certainly not be able to stop this process or turn it anywhere else. The next Riigikogu and the next Government of the Republic will certainly analyze which level of ownership is best. We do not rule out that at some point we will come to this issue, but we stress that the change should then also include vocational education, or secondary education level, in the hands of one owner. There's still the same goal here. How do you do something? An ex-analysis shows how. The idea of local authorities receiving more rights either themselves or at the level of local governments, including, for example, unemployment and continuing training, is good. I believe that we have a very good example of the Nordic countries in this regard. It's justified. But if you go into the details, there will be so many nuances that today I can't answer you that this is the only possible solution. It is possible that in 2021 we will find that it is not justified yet that we need another transitional period. We also do not know what legal status the local government associations will have as a result of the administrative reform, what tasks we will give to the local government associations, how decisions will be made there. So, as you can see, here are a thousand questions. And as long as there are no answers to them, we're certainly not ready to hand over the upper secondary school network to anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U69	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U70	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. My penguin here indicated that more than two thirds of Russian-speaking people would like their children to study in the national language. I think that if they asked if they would like their children to be as competitive as Estonian-language children, most would certainly answer yes. I think and you have also stressed that this education is more effective in kindergarten. Although kindergartens are in the administrative area of local governments, it is still the responsibility of the state to ensure that the national language is taught. Is it possible to find funding for a immersion in all kindergartens who wish to do so now? And the second question. Do you not think that it would also give parents confidence if we had a clear plan on how to switch from year to year to full-scale education in Estonian, both in kindergarten and in primary school? Then maybe we shouldn't debate the difficult language level C1 of this gymnasium here anymore and give millions more.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U71	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, the immersion is very popular, but it is clearly only one of the methods used. All kindergartens who would like to switch now to immersion will certainly not be able to finance the state at the level we planned in the past. This would mean two teachers per group and a considerable contribution also at the local government level. At the very beginning, when very few were included in this programme, both teachers' salaries were publicly guaranteed. There is now only support, which is rather limited to continuing training, counselling and providing partial support. Local authorities often find it quite difficult to find an additional teacher, given that there are still some requirements. Now about the general study of Estonian in kindergartens. Is there an Estonian language teacher in all kindergartens? According to the EHIS, I think most of it might have been solved somehow. But how systematic this language teacher is, how he's in classes, etc. Is this a state mission? No, it's not. The Pre-school Children's Institution Act states, as well as all the debates, that it is the task of the local government that the state has placed on it. It's a curriculum assignment. This is also why this time we took special attention to kindergartens' methodological materials and teacher counseling. Yes, it is one of those bottlenecks where we have to admit that in 2009, we made a law, but we have not gone so well now. We've been saying that kindergartens are a local government thing. Local authorities have often given this task smoothly to kindergarten managers, some of whom have been quite successful and others less successful. So, unfortunately, it varies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U72	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U73	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. There are just over 900000 Estonians on the ground, about 200,000 living abroad in different countries. In the Russian community here in Estonia there has been talk from time to time that sooner or later the Estonian people will disappear anyway. This has also been confirmed on several occasions by your party partner, Yana Toom. Does it not seem to you that the restoration of basically bilingual education in Estonian schools significantly weakens the willingness of Russian young people to integrate into society, reduces opportunities for participation in the labour market and study in higher education institutions, as a whole divides society even more? Is there no danger that in the years to come x the Estonian people will speak or will be forced to speak Russian and will be able to feel all the consequences? Let's just remember the Karelians, the Ingrians, the Maris, the Comis, the Votians, and so on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U74	Thank you. I do not agree with such a pessimistic interpretation. Estonian language and Estonian people will not go away. We are one of those very powerful nations whose language is not only such a nostalgic and historical tool, but also a written language, a national language, is an official language. Just two weeks ago, we put together a new working group on the Estonian language strategy, where we pay special attention to Estonian language, technological and scientific development of the language. The language is developing in different areas. Next week, at the highest national level, we will have the opportunity to thank linguists who do this all the time, for awarding the Wiedemann Language Prize. On the anniversary of the Republic, annual reviews are always made, and there is a language person alongside athletes, cultural workers and researchers, and this is notable. If we take a closer look, solutions will always be offered how the same 200,000 people you referred to would be more and more involved in our society, no matter where they live in the corner of the world, so that they are engulfed in the Estonian language space. It is a separate challenge to keep young people who grow up in different parts of the world in the Estonian language space and in the Estonian education system. These are all new challenges, but none of them are hopeless. I certainly do not agree with the fear that our language is somehow disappearing. I can't tell you what you're worried about. Looking at the concerns of linguists, they are concerned about the rapidly expanding use of English. For example, when we say that computer and other programs can speak more in Estonian, it is meant that our young people sometimes prefer to use English in certain short texts. Our research work is done disproportionately in English, our student exchanges and other such things tend to move out of the language environment and into the English world. The challenge is rather to keep and develop your language versus such big languages as English. So I've never seen such a greater concern about the Russian invasion, rather than. Maybe I don't understand the context, but I don't share that concern in any way right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U75	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. The last coalition talks had much to say about improving language learning, and I very much hope that action will follow. I am thinking of language training in schools that have been much talked about today and the project to create Estonian-language houses, which I hope will also come to your ministry and administration. Madam President pointed out some time ago that our young people were wasting time in kindergarten and in the first years of school. I agree with him that this is a time when children have a great deal to stick to. My concern is that I, as a parent and an interested person in education, feel that we do not have enough good methods to teach them. Today you referred to the need for a third level of school in the creation of a methodology for teaching Estonian language. What about other levels of school and methods of teaching the language to adults?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U77	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, as far as the methodology is concerned, perhaps the most important thing here is that we bring together the best practices. It cannot be said that we do not have methodologies. We have very, very effective customised methodologies. For example, some schools have found their own approach to immersion. Foreign language training has been scientifically analysed since the 60's of the last century to determine which techniques are best. As you know, in the '60s, we were created the first schools with the cost of language, and then the pedagogical institute also analysed how to bring foreign language skills to a very good level in an environment where language cannot be practiced. At the time, we could not practice English, French or German in this way. The first thing is that we have methodologies, we should just wake up some old things again. Why they are not used in teaching the Estonian language and are rather such a traditional approach, yes, here is the problem of continuing teacher training. And in continuing training, we have strongly emphasised that teachers who come to the training must speak Estonian. However, some of the teachers of Russian - speaking schools are inevitably excluded. The greater dissemination of such best knowledge is the first objective. As far as the bottlenecks are concerned, the methodological material I was talking about, as well as the teaching tools. But there is also the question of how to encourage teachers to speak. There's a lot of shyness, maybe even fear. That's another big challenge. On the issues of solutions, mutual trust is very important to me, because we can move forward once we have analysed the bottlenecks together. There are still many ways to raise the level of language skills. On the subject of kindergartens and presidents, here I have the idea, on a number of proposals, that maybe this is a little too powerful and too brave in the whole system. Such a method has also been seen by the President in the case of his children, where several foreign languages have been spoken since kindergarten, of course. Language learning does indeed begin at the age of five, and at one point the child reads literature in the original language, three, four languages. It is used very strongly after the European school, for example, by the Dutch and the Dutch language proficiency levels are very good. I believe that such a brave test at school level is certainly easier than doing something as ordered by the state. Today I dare not say that in all kindergartens we can introduce foreign language education in one year, but parents have an interest in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U78	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you, Madam Secretary. An hour and a half went fast. I'm opening negotiations. Inquiries have no desire to speak. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U79	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know how to welcome you now. Perhaps it would be right to say, 'The Congress of Keelescients, hello, everyone! 'Cause I'm gonna have to assign the focus group I'm talking to right now. I would like to know how many Estonian philologists are in this hall right now. I'm not talking about me, I'm never talking about me. There's no one?! But maybe there is someone who has some other education and who has ever compiled dictionaries and knows what problems foreigners who are currently studying Estonian in Estonia have with glossaries? I have a bigger dictionary and some five or six dictionaries. No one's here? Maybe somebody's made some teaching materials. About the Estonian language? [[Someone in the hall is gonna check in.]] Fantastic! Then I'll keep talking to you. The thing is, when a person does repairs, it's not like he invites a bunch of outsiders to his apartment, shows some great picture and says, "I want to be like that and that's it. Do what you want! ' There's no material, instruments are wrong, men don't know what to do. You go around, you don't control the process, you mumble anything, and in the meantime, you just ask me when this problem is gonna be solved, when you're gonna finish this apartment repair. Would anyone in this room do that to their apartment? Then why do you do it with Estonian? Why? I understand why the Reform Party came up with this. Seventeen years have hardly done anything in this area. Right now, there was a threat that there might be a breakthrough in a few years. Jealousy is not the way to get that result. The reform will, as always, start throwing sticks. But the rest of us should be clear. You see, language is the easiest way to learn at a very young age. We do have this requirement in the preschool law that the language needs to be taught. But show me the methodology that has been confirmed. Show me the basic vocabulary. Show me the kind of educational resources that can be used in Tallinn, Tartu and Narva. There are some points that talk about nothing in the law, but nothing has been done. I hope that this year's work will begin, where we will receive a basic course in two years for four age groups in kindergarten (31.4, 4 to 5, 5 to 6 and 6 to 7), with a basic dictionary and all the requirements are very specific. Where the teacher is given a methodological tool, or teacher book, in both Russian and Estonian languages, where the games have been worked out, where IT solutions have been made for the phone and smartphone, for the computer. It's always been my dream, I've been talking about it for years and years. This is the opportunity now. I hope that in two years' time we will be talking in this hall about the normal language learning in all Estonian kindergartens, which also meets the established standards: 30 words for the first age group, 50 for the second, 70 for the third, 100 for the fourth. 250 words, is that a lot? No, it's not. But that's the vocabulary you can use to speak. And then comes the natural transition to the first degree: first class, second, third. Only there's work to be done. Who hates Estonian so much that it is certain that Estonian cannot be learned in school in Estonian? Certainly not philologists, certainly not Estonian teachers. But why was the same course ever taken, this 60:40, that we study through other subjects? Who ever entered the idea that this would make the language clear and maintain the level of knowledge? That is absolutely not possible. No, it's not! We're starting now, the current coalition is breaking through. We're going to make a revolution on our own. Enough of these empty claims, the fulfilment of which is not covered by anything! Just words in regulations and laws, that's all. Personally, I am Russian and I am a teacher of Estonian, and I want every child in Estonia who is not an Estonian child, i.e. a child living in Estonia, to be guaranteed qualified, continuous and effective education in Estonian from the age of three until graduation. If we look at the current situation, nothing has been done for it. I have two minutes left. I'm going to tell you a story to illustrate the situation, and it's not going to be possible to make anything more clear anyway. My younger son was in seventh grade at the time. I did my thing in my office, the boy did his homework. She was nervous, about three hours until she finally said, "Well, why don't you go help your son? He's working with the Estonian language there. How long is he gonna be sitting there till morning? " Seventh grade. The father goes to his son and says, "Well, boy, what do you got? ' 'We have one text to learn at home, I have to recount it. '''What's so hard about it? " Then he handed me his book. I think I'll remember that awful thing when I die on my deathbed. It was a text entitled 'Estonian Village in the 18th century'. One in five words was unknown to me, and I have once translated a regilaul at university. And that is what these teaching tools want from our children, not to communicate and talk, but to engulf them into any idiotic text to disgust them with language learning. We are now trying to achieve something completely different so that the child can learn Estonian with fun and love. I think you should stop, this process must not be interrupted. And the last thing. We have 78 schools working in Russian in Estonia. If four schools form methodological centres that will prepare the material that maybe in a few years' time will be used throughout Estonia, what's wrong with it? What's the rush, reformists? What have you done for the Estonian language? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U80	Maris Lauri and Urmas Kruuse, honorable! Since you failed to exercise your prerogative to negotiate, you are now in the general order. Martin Helme, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U81	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start with the story. You can't argue with stories. The story is emotional and so it is. My child studies at Kivimäe Elementary School and in Estonian literature class the Estonian literary story is taught according to Russian-language teaching material. I don't know how such a crime is possible, but here it is. My godchild's in high school 21, elite school. At the end of the ninth grade, he will pass the exam in Estonian and will have less Estonian lessons a week than Russian lessons. I don't know how that's possible, but it is. No one is arguing about finding better ways and better solutions to teach the Estonian language to non-Estonians here. We all understand that it is primarily about Russians or people whose home language is Russian, even if they are not Russian. However, it is also the case that the activities currently being carried out by the Ministry of Education and the entire Centre Party are clearly motivated by very narrow political interests. These exceptions are granted in Tallinn to those Russian schools that have always opposed Estonian-language education, or basically, they bow to Russian chauvinism in order to take the Russians' votes in the autumn elections. This is the fight. That's what we're actually talking about here. And for its background here, I am not throwing a stone only towards the Centre Party, our President, who goes and talks about how children should learn Russian, though English, but does not speak Estonian. I was contacted by a person who said that he heard the story of Estonian children making a statement in the fifth grade, whether it was on the countdown or on the capital letter, I do not know for sure. It was necessary to write the words 'Estonian Republic'. And a boy wrote 'Estonian-free country'. We see how, from the President, when we continue with the Minister of Education and when we end up with the heads of school, we build an Estonian-free country where all other languages are more important. We worry about all the other children, but the fact that we teach our mother tongue to our children and that this language is good for both Estonians and non-Estonians is good for the level, is not dealt with. Literature classes have little talk about Estonian literature and that is what we speak in Russian; Estonian language classes are less than foreign language classes. In addition, there are too many foreign languages; we need three foreign languages. Come on, knock it off! Learn one language properly, not that there are three pudding languages. And as a result, the mother tongue suffers. Estonian is the cornerstone of the identity of Estonians. One important idea for the entire Estonian state is that Estonian identity, national culture, language, this self-image is strong and progressing. This language policy, which the Centre Party is pursuing, gives rise to great dismay that the educational landscape of Estonia is moving towards bilingualism. If the Minister of Education tells me something about how the state gymnasium coming to Narva is in any case in Estonian, just some subjects are in Russian, then forgive me, we are talking about a bilingual school. That's not what we should do. I understand Narva is a difficult place. But if someone tells me 25 years after the restoration of independence that we still don't have textbooks, I'm asking how much money we've planted integration. How much? At the end of the crowning period, I thought it was half a billion, and today, I think, we can call it more or less the same amount in euro. And we still don't have textbooks! So, what have we been up to for 25 years? My colleague Stalnukhin talks every time about how there are no textbooks. How long?! I just don't understand how long we're gonna get behind this. Actually, it's very simple. There are several levels. One level is a purely practical level. I think it takes time to do one textbook, I've been a publisher, I've done textbooks as a publisher, well, I don't know how long it's actually been done for a year. If this has not been done in 25 years, there is still a question of involuntaryity somewhere. Secondly, there are clear signals that we give at the level of national authority: at ministerial level, at the level of officials, at the level of the President. And these signals have always been schizophrenic. Yes, we want Estonia to be Estonian, yes, we want Estonian to be the dominant language. At the same time, we have national authorities in bilingual languages, all websites are bilingual, the documentation is bilingual. You can do business in the Russian language in court. Tell me, what is the motivation for this Russian to learn Estonian?! He looks and laughs at the Russians who have learned the Estonian language: you were stupid, you needed it, see, I didn't learn it, and I can do it. And then he comes down on his knees and he says, "Maybe we can give you textbooks." This is the wrong signal to be issued. The Estonian state has only one idea and this is the transmission of Estonian culture. If we do not want to carry Estonian culture here, then one such euro province, where you can do business in English or German or in Russian or in three mixed languages, distribute grants, privatise and carry them, there is no need for anyone other than those involved. The idea of the Estonian state is to preserve the Estonian language and Estonian culture and to preserve the Estonian nation. And that's not what the current government is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U82	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U83	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is sad, embarrassing and painful, because our municipality does not stand up for those for whom it is the Estonian people. The Russians have Russia, there is Putin, there is the Russian government, which also stands for Russians living abroad, including in Estonia. The Americans have an American government, the English, the British have a British government, the Finns, the Swedes have a government that stands for its people, also those who belong to its people, but who do not live on its territory. But the Estonian government does not stand up even in its own territory against the people who are obliged by the Constitution to defend their language, whose Constitution obliges them to protect them. Instead, our highest political leadership has betrayed its people, and I am not afraid to use that word. Our highest political leadership has betrayed its people and is working to serve here, I do not know whether the interests of international corporations, the European Commission, the Moscow Government or anyone else. Because what we see now in Estonia is truly grotesque. We see that our President no longer dares to use the word 'Estonian' but speaks of the people of his home instead. Home folks! The people of the home are all those who have been carried together by wind and water into the territory of the Republic of Estonia, be it from Syria, be it from Russia, be it from Kazakhstan, be it from China, it is all our people. Let the Estonians see for themselves how they can handle it, but we must take care of the people of our home. For the people of our home, we must allow the Russian-speaking school, the Russian-speaking court, to be able to handle Russian anywhere. To the people of our home, we must allow English to be honored everywhere and everyone can speak English. How wonderful it is to hear once again from a Turk or Syrian, how wonderful it is to live in Estonia, because everyone here can speak English. Excellent! But I ask: why do you, Turk, not speak Estonian? Why don't you, Syrian, speak Estonian? Why do you, a Russian who was born here, raised here and went to school, not speak Estonian? And then I look at the government and the minister and I say, why are you making it so that they can learn the Estonian language even harder? Why has segregation been maintained in Estonia for 25 years? Of fear of Russia, of wanting to please our so-called friends? The answers are behind these questions. However, we have moved even further now. Instead of segregation, we are now creating integration, where Estonians must integrate with all others, because we do not require them to integrate with us. This whole mixed school thing is exactly what it is. Dear friends, when we make mixed schools, we know very well, in the example of mixed kindergartens, that if there are three or four Russian children in the group, they do not speak Estonian, but Estonian children will speak Russian. If we do a school, we take the same so-called private school, which is a mixed school, if there are one Estonian class and three Russian classes, then you can be sure of death that this school is not a bilingual school, but is a one-language or Russian-speaking school. And this is the model of integration that we are promoting at government level, because we have our own people, not the nation state of Estonia. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U84	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U85	I mean, this policy doesn't go far. I watched before I came here to the remote control, why I'm so angry right now, how Prime Minister Jüri Ratas did the horrible Russian approach, I don't know who the Russians in Estonia are going to go to home to. Why does the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia not do his or her turn in Estonian, even if this address is intended for Estonian Russians? Why doesn't he do it in Estonian, why does he have to do it in Russian in a country whose official official language is Estonian? Especially if his Russian is still so terrible that it is really hard to listen to the Prime Minister, I'm sorry, but it hurts everyone's ear. I don't want to point the finger at Jüri or humiliate him in any way, but it's not dignified, it's not appropriate for the Prime Minister of a country and people who respect themselves. Let's, ladies, members of the government, the whole nation, stand up! We sang 25 years ago that being an Estonian was proud and good. And now the President does not dare say Estonia and the Estonian people, but talks about Estonia and the people of Estonia. This is not the country I was looking at in the Song Festival Square and in the Baltic Way, I myself did not participate in the Baltic Way. This is not Estonia. We have forgotten about Estonia, for which we were prepared to eat potato peel, and are currently building Estonia, where the last place is for the Estonian people. Personally, I can't accept that. I tell you honestly that this is also the reason why I am in politics at all: to fight for Estonia, where the Estonian people have a place where the Estonian people are not part of the people of their home, but are a nation whose country it is, who is hospitable and willing to help everyone who needs help, but who is the master of his home. This is the country that is also written in our constitution. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U86	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U87	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard a long round of answers today, where the Minister of Education spoke with a nice, gentle voice, but in a very round way about education issues. We have heard a great deal about places where consideration is being made, evaluated, analysed. Yes, these things must be done: consider, analyze, evaluate. But there are places where you have to be principled. There are places where there is incompetence, an irresponsible attitude. It has to be said. I would have liked to hear clearer visions, ideas, goals, goals today. There weren't any. Everything was round. There were very few clear answers. Yes, we can talk about the language being politicised over time. But I, who I have been in this Riigikogu relatively little time and have been mostly far from politics in my life, dare say that the Centre Party has made this matter political first and foremost. Having done so with the signals given to their voters in some municipalities in Tallinn, Kohtla-Järvel and Narva, that they can be different. General education is a matter of local government organisation. Local government does not need to apply for admission to language training if the local government managers do not apply for it. The local government can actually choose school leaders who want to promote things. In this sense, these answers here were hypocritical to a number of questions. I don't like the fact that we have so many young people with poor language skills. These young people cannot learn where they really want to be or what they have the ability to do. Their employment opportunities are considerably narrower than they could be. I have had the opportunity to work with young people for whom I learned years later that they were from a Russian family. Their Estonian language was good, they had excellently acquired this language and were highly successful in their profession. Language skills are always the basis for success. And it is therefore incomprehensible to me why it is encouraging, over and over again, not to learn the language, not to learn the official language. We need all young people who are graduating from primary school to speak Estonian so that they can speak it equally well, so that everyone can have the same educational opportunities and get a good job. Language must be learned early, in practice, from kindergarten, from primary school. I think, having spoken to a lot of people, including a lot of Russian-speaking people, I honestly confess that I would not have dared to go out without talking to people of Russian origin, so that we could quickly switch to a purely Estonian-speaking school instead of Russian and Estonian-speaking schools. These are the Russians, our fellow citizens, who want it and are ready for it. And in that sense, I did not understand when the minister said that we would never only get an Estonian-language school. Never! We could set an ambitious target, for example, for ten years, although some people have also said that it could be five years. It is complicated, it needs preparation and it must overcome a number of fears, but we must think about young people, we must think about our Estonian state. We must not create more divisions; we must finally start to cross them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U88	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now break some of the practice that the group has already been spoken, but I was motivated by the speech of a good colleague, Mr Stalnukhin. And the reason why it prompted was the appeal that you are, whether you are experts, that you can discuss this at all. It was a little new to me in the house where the representatives of the people have been elected. In fact, this means that if the public chooses to mute here, he has the right to express himself, if he chooses a tractorist who is not a teacher, then he has the right to express himself, and if he chooses a professor here, that professor has the right to remain silent, even if he is a specialist. As a result, such a statement was like a new sign in society for me. When I asked the minister questions, they were not motivated by Russians or Russian-speaking people on one side of the front line and Estonians and Estonian-speaking people on the other side of the front line. I asked to see a certain degree of responsibility. Although a good colleague said that the Reform Party has done nothing in 17 years, even though the Honorable Minister has just said that he has been a minister twice, I still have the impression that there is some kind of co-responsibility when something is called 'do nothing'. I'm worried about something else. As an example of Tartu, I also look towards a good colleague, Aadu Black, that language immersion and improving language learning can be dealt with in schools where children whose family has a primary Russian language, if there is a will to do so. If in 2017 there is another principal in the Republic of Estonia who says that he has not managed to organise the teaching of the Estonian language, I would ask why he is still working. Why is he still working at a school where he hasn't done it? I certainly do not share the enthusiasm with which emotionally it is very easy to go along so that we can teach the child dozens of languages at an early age. We all know that child receptiveness at an early age is certainly greater, but I rather share the view of those people and experts who say that there may be a reverse effect here, i.e. that our Estonian language is becoming narrower, the vocabulary becomes less fantasy and narrower. So I'd be very sensitive and careful about trying to teach children what we want to see as parents or people in the world before the first class. It must be said that in certain political power municipalities, especially when this force has been in power there for a long time, we are talking today about the Centre Party, in this context, we note a certain confrontation that in 2017 it is said that we do not have any methodology or books. Interestingly, a lot of North Estonians, people living around Tallinn learned Finnish without methodology, they turned on TV and watched movies. But there was one important thing that made them understand this language: it was a desire, a desire to understand and understand, certainly also a desire to be at least free in their minds, a part of the free world. We are now being given a reason that there have been no books, no textbooks and no teachers in the period of independence. I certainly cannot agree with that as a person, as a citizen and as a member of the Riigikogu. The fact that the desire to learn more Russian has grown among Estonian young people is neither disgusting nor unacceptable to me. It is sad to me that young people have been given more knowledge that... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U90	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U91	... they have the opportunity to survive without the Estonian language. Looking at labour market statistics, I also find it incomprehensible to the activities of NGOs and other organisations who have actually torpedoed certain Estonian language teaching in so-called schools. For this reason, I dare hope that this house here on Toompea will always be the place where every ambassador elected here can stand up, take the floor, look his colleagues in the eye, regardless of whether he is a language expert, a doctor or someone else, because the people have chosen him here. If he simply speaks from his heart, then we have things in Estonia in order. I wish the new minister, or again the minister elected, a balance and wisdom in making their possible decisions, despite the fact that the press can read how certain agreements have already been signed, on the basis of the principle that we will do so anyway, because we are in power today. Unfortunately, the new coalition makes it feel that, since it is thought that there will be only two years and a little bit more in power, every effort will be made to do all the things that have ever come to mind in time. That doesn't make much sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U92	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U93	Mr President! Good people's representatives! The idea of the Estonian state is to preserve and promote Estonian culture and Estonian nationality. It seems to me that whatever area of life we are planning, evaluating and analysing, all these plans should be based on this most important task. My ear is sorely affected by the fact that many of us, as well as other hallways of office, no longer want to talk about Estonia, being an Estonian, feeling of nationality. These are concepts that every person must always be proud of, whatever his nationality. We have been given to keep this country, to protect it and to move it forward. Education is one of the most important areas of this path. I am very sorry when messages are passed on in the field of education, which are very interpretationable in many ways. And that's what the Minister of Education does. The Minister said today that the Ministry's plans are actually intended to strengthen language learning, but that society has had completely different expectations, rather different opinions. And this way, speaking of the same thing, but understanding it differently, a whole new conflict, a new wave of misunderstandings, which is certainly not necessary in the current situation, is unwittingly being created. What we should support more strongly, and what we should do more, is to develop the Estonian language itself as a language technology support, so it is to enrich the language, also using foreign loans, new words. We should be more bold about everything that helps to promote the Estonian language, to preserve the Estonian nation and, through it, also the country. It is awkward to recall that we have spoken in this very hall that the Institute of the Estonian Language should be melted together with the National University, which is a very dignified institution and abolished as an independent institution. Such discussions are not suitable for this Chamber of the Riigikogu. I did not hear this claim today, unfortunately: in order to deepen and enhance the teaching of Estonian among Russian-speaking students, in Russian-language schools, the tools already available are being used. I'm sorry! An excellent electronic dictionary has been developed at the Estonian Language Institute. There is a shortage of some tens of thousands to update it, make it more accessible and distribute it in schools. We have very experienced scientists, faculty members, who are also prepared to develop more modern teaching methods quickly and at a very good level. I did not, unfortunately, hear that this direction had been addressed and reviewed at all in order to improve language learning. We don't need any further pilot projects. Let us use this skill properly and very consciously and all the tools we have! Let us, however, be first and foremost in this language debate on the road to preserving, supplementing, teaching and loving our own Estonian language! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U94	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We're done answering the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U95	The next item is the inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Aivar Sõerdi, Arto Aasa, Urve Tiidus, Maris Lauri, Taavi Rõivas, Kristen Michali, Hanno Pevkuri, Kalle Palling, Remo Holsmer, Toomas Kivimägi, Keit Pentus-Rosimud, Jüri Jaanson, Eerik-Niles Krossi, Lauri Luige, Deniss Borodichi, Ants Laaneotsi, Johannes Kerdi, Jürgen Ligi, Anne Sullingu, Igor Gräzini, Madis Millingu, Laine Randjärve, Yoko Alender and Meelis Mälberg. On behalf of the heirs, Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who are you listening to? I will briefly present this inquiry, which was submitted on 9 January, on behalf of many members of the Reform Party Group. About two months ago, we worked here on this year's state budget. The state budget was preceded by an economic forecast, and I remember that when the Minister of Finance presented it, he declared victoriously that the tax burden would fall by 0.2%. Later, when we were dealing with the state budget here in the Riigikogu, the Minister repeatedly stressed in his public appearance that the tax burden is on a declining trend. In introducing the draft state budget in the Riigikogu at first reading, the Minister said that we would not increase the tax burden. You all remember that during the budget procedure, the power union changed. The new power union began to move, and obviously the question arose as to how all the steps taken by the power union would affect the tax burden. I myself asked the Minister in Question Time about the tax burden, but there was no answer. I also asked and asked several other members of the Riigikogu when we dealt with the draft tax changes, the so-called cluster bill, very specific questions about the tax burden. In particular, we asked whether the overall tax burden would increase or decrease. We didn't get an answer. Let it be said here that the overall tax burden is the amount of tax revenue the country collects per year compared to gross domestic product. We did not receive an answer to these questions, even though the tax burden is an important question, which is certainly of interest not only to the public but also to the Riigikogu. There is usually even a separate chapter in the economic forecast. But look, I happened to be in the Treasury briefing on December 21st, before Christmas. That was right after we asked those questions in this house. During the briefing there were materials distributed to journalists, which clearly stated that the tax burden would increase by 0.6% in 2017, to 35% of GDP. Let it be said that this is the biggest tax burden of this millennium. It hasn't reached that high yet. Consequently, we have the following questions. Why does the Ministry of Finance not provide the Riigikogu with information about its area of activity when asked specific questions? What are the future plans? Will the tax burden rise in the coming years and, if so, how much? Thirdly, today the European Commission has published the spring economic forecast and it has revised Estonia's economic growth downwards this year as well as next year's growth. Let it be said that in the forecast by the Ministry of Finance, our growth rate was 2.5%, and now it has been adjusted downwards to 2.2%. This raises the question of whether this could also be linked to the tax burden. Of course, economic growth is influenced by a large number of factors, particularly export demand in other countries. However, since both Lithuania and Latvia are forecast to have faster economic growth, we need to ask how we can compete with our neighbouring countries, especially given the tax burden. We expect the Minister to answer these questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U97	The inquiry must be answered by Minister of Finance Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, It was a little confusing, but thank God, I have a more specific question on the table, so I can answer it. I therefore respond to an inquiry, which has been signed by a large number of members of the Reform Party Group, including the three former finance ministers. If you look at the more distant history of Estonia's tax burden, we can see that the tax burden remained between 30% and 32% until the last economic crisis. I am thinking of the economic crisis that began in 2008, which Ansip, the president of the reform party, supposedly made up of economics, did not even know what to say about preventing the crisis. He also preferred to live in such a crisis and crash when most people had a clear picture. During the crisis, in 2009, the tax burden increased to around 35%, mainly because the total volume of the economy decreased faster than the tax revenue decreased. The 2% increase in VAT contributed to the peak of the crisis, but it was a somewhat inevitable move because the bubble had been allowed to expand carelessly despite warnings. Thereafter, the tax burden fell again to 32% by 2011 mainly as a result of the economic recovery. Three years, when the IRL was also in the government, the tax burden remained just below 32%. The new and dynamic increase in the tax burden began in 2014, when the Reform Party decided to exclude IRL from the coalition and decisions were taken 11 months before the Riigikogu elections under the leadership of the new Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. I read three figures here: tax burden 31,7% in 2013, tax burden 32,6% in 2014, tax burden 33,9% in 2015. So much to remind you, it was a budget made by the Reform Party before the elections. In short, in the two financial years, they were in 2014 and 2015 the tax burden increased by more than 2%, namely 2,2%. During those years, finance ministers had now signed an inquiry into Jürgen Ligi and, for a short time, also Maris Lauri, who did not manage to make any state budget at that time. Most of the signatories, who were also members or ministers of the Riigikogu in those years, did not, for some reason, put such questions or enquiries, nor did they care about the impact of the unprecedented 2% increase in the tax burden on the Estonian economy. Luckily, there was an election. In the 2015 elections, the IRL has just come up with the idea of an important tax reform aimed at clearly reducing the income tax on workers, especially those on low wages. The Reform Party, which began to allow certain marginal tax reductions, also caught up with this idea. Today, IRL's promise has been fulfilled a great deal. For the first time in this year, those with low pay will receive income tax back for the previous year. From next year, the tax-free income of most people on low and average wages will be EUR 500. This is the historical context in which this question needs to be viewed. I will now answer the questions you have asked, which specifically concern the tax burden. The first question: 'In January/February, the Ministry of Finance will start drafting a new country's budget strategy. Does the new national fiscal strategy also provide for an increase in the tax burden in 2018 and beyond? ' The new State Budget Strategy 2017 has been based on the Ministry of Finance's 2017 spring forecast, which will be completed in April. Unfortunately, therefore, it is still too early to say what the tax burden will be according to the new forecast. Indeed, the tax burden depends not only on the tax rate but also on actual tax receipts as well as on the forecast size of gross domestic product. This is a distribution of these two numbers. Looking at the tax measures adopted and planned by the new Government of the Republic, it can be said that, for example, the lower tax rate for mature companies in the case of distribution of profits, from which higher tax receipts have been planned in the first years of implementation, is, on the whole, a tax reduction that motivates companies to distribute more profits, despite the fact that this leads to higher additional revenue in the budget in the first years and therefore statistically means an increase in the tax burden. The second question: 'Which decisions taken during the 2017 budget procedure and the changes introduced into the budget plan led to an increase in the tax burden rather than a reduction in the tax burden previously planned? " The increased measures which affected the tax burden in 2016 and 2017 were the postponement of the increase in excise duties on alcohol and fuel to February, the further increase in excise duties on alcohol, the increase in beer, cider, wine, the abolition of the increase in excise duty on diesel in 2018, the withdrawal of social tax, the withdrawal of VAT on accommodation services, the shift of the amount of dividends in 2016 to December. The third question: 'Has the Ministry of Finance analysed how the tax burden of rising to record heights in Estonia's history affects the competitiveness of our economy, given the tax burden of neighbouring countries? ' An analysis of this subject has been submitted to the Riigikogu together with every draft law, and I have reason to believe that the Riigikogu has considered these analyses sufficient at least for drafts adopted as a law. Indeed, as I said when I began to answer the question, there is cause for concern, because in three years the government coalition led by Taavi Rõivas raised the tax burden by 2.7%. The new coalition certainly does not set such ambitious goals. Rather, our goal is to increase tax-free income, for example, in just the same amount in a year as the ambition of the previous government was for the next 30 years. Honourable heirs of members of the Riigikogu! I don't know if you noticed that your bank account received two euros more in January. Did you notice that? This is not the result of the reform of the tax-free income promised by the Reform Party in elections. This year, a tax refund will be applied to low-paid people, with a tax-free income of EUR 500 for the next year, which will increase the income of low and middle earners, depending on their salary, by up to EUR 700 per year. This is a real tax-free tax reform, which also reduces the effective tax rate for our labour force, which has been higher in Estonia than in Latvia and Lithuania. And it is a free choice for a person whether he buys a computer for the children with this money or a lean alcohol, which, thanks to the increase in the rate of excise duty, will also increase the estimated tax burden in the country. What do I mean by that? A moderate increase in some taxes may not necessarily be bad if it makes people's lifestyles healthier and brings additional income to the Treasury. By 2020, Estonia's tax burden will remain much lower than in Finland or Sweden, as well as below the European Union average. The difference between Latvia and Lithuania's tax burden is also unlikely to increase significantly. I don't have a detailed overview of their plans. As I said, it is relatively difficult to make such forecasts, as such an aggregated indicator depends not only on tax rates but also on many other factors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U99	The first question is put to the Minister by Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I think that this historical context, which you somewhat dotted here as an introduction to answering a question, may be quite close to the truth. And indeed, apparently, the former finance ministers, who are also the heirs, should be aware of that. But that's not the question at all. I realized that Mr Sõerd and others really asked how the increase in the tax burden would be in the process of processing the state budget. But we just didn't get any answers from you. What was on that piece of paper distributed in the Treasury Department press briefing anyway? Some time before this briefing when we dealt with the state budget here, we did not receive an answer from the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Why did this paper only come at such a moment? This increase in the tax burden is still, as if, hidden from us in the budgetary process.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U101	No, not by a long shot. If you dismantle the state budget, you will see in the explanatory memorandum a comprehensive overview of the various features. No one ever wanted to hide anything, there's no reason for it. Even today, we can say from time to time this is being asked what the volume of the state budget will be next year. We can already say this because all forecasts are predictable. What will be the size of the state budget in 2018 and what will be the potential tax receipts in 2018? Everything's predictable. Everything's accounted for today. And, of course, there hasn't been an argument about any number. What have we been arguing about, including the good Aivar Sõerd? The question is what we are talking about, whether we are talking about a tax burden or an effective tax rate on labour. We have been working to reduce the effective tax rate on labour. And look, that's something to be proud of.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U102	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U103	Dear Minister, The tax burden on labour is the subject of some other enquiries. Now we are talking about the overall tax burden. I am asking a specific question because you did not answer the second question. The tax burden will increase to 35% this year. By the way, it wasn't that high during the crisis either. Are there any further increases or decreases in the tax burden that will rise to record heights this year in 2018?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U104	Thank you. I can bring you very specific numbers, all the numbers are there. The current tax burden is 35%. And, by the way, so that you can compare, I would say as a background that, according to the measures previously planned, the tax burden would have been 34.7%. So we can talk about the increase in the tax burden of 0.3% compared to what we have already planned. And now note: what measures will increase the tax burden? What measures will contribute to an increase in the tax burden, whether these are tax changes or some other measures in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020? What will we see in the coming years? We see that, for example, in 2018, on which the questioner has now asked, we want to legitimise the reduction in the so-called mature corporate tax from 20% to 14%. The three-year average for companies paying stable income tax would be 14%. If you ask why I am telling you this, it is because companies are expected to pay more dividends in connection with the tax reduction. They are stimulated and interested in paying more dividends. However, increased revenue to the state budget increases our tax burden. It's as simple as that. In 2018, in theory, our tax burden will be increased by 0.5% by the fact that we will receive more dividends. For example, the dividend paid by Swedbank increased our tax burden by half a percentage in a given year, the same way in 2018. Raising alcohol duty increases our tax burden. True story, it increases our tax burden, believe me! For me, the question is what kind of attention we pay to labour taxes. This is a competition issue right now. I have said that we want to lower taxes on labour and that we are prepared to raise vices, consumption and environmental charges on the basis of the principle of fiscal neutrality. Lowering labour taxes, listen, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you one thing. Let's talk about the rates that are coming, which will soon be enforced. According to the old system, I call the old system the plans of the previous government, we would have had an effective tax rate of 34.7% in 2020. With the changes we're going to make, we can bring it down half a percent. If you ask if it's final, if we're satisfied, then I'll say no. I think we need to move on. This percentage is even lower in Latvia and Lithuania. Yes, it is. But we can reduce the tax burden on labour, and that is very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U105	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Your emotional introduction must have referred to the Ducks egg basket that was in the commercial. If I understand correctly, it will cost the taxpayer quite a million dollars to launch this plan for one year. But old people's wisdom says you have to freeze the eggs on time so they don't mind. However, I would like to ask a completely different question. You are always referring to the promotion of the economy. For the city hall, the government, including you, was about ready to provide EUR 40 million. But to get the money to develop Tori's horse farm, which is important from a rural point of view, we still have to argue for a long time. Let's put these two together! On the basis of what logic can Estonia become rich without working and simply by redistributing tax money? This refund of income tax for low-paid people, which you very much praise, is very much a social welcome, but rather unopposed from an economic point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U107	Thank you. I had to think carefully about what you wanted to say with your introduction. First of all, the so-called Duck eggs. I'd say we finally did what we promised the election. This spring, low-paid people, whose salary has been less than EUR 500, will have their income tax refund as a one-off payment. But we didn't mean it like that. We wanted them to actually be left without withholding income tax every month, just as it will be in 2018. We have now achieved an even more ambitious goal: it will cover not only the low but also the middle earners. We are ready to take decisions that will contribute to reducing labour costs. You referred to becoming rich without working. It occurred to me that a few weeks ago there was talk about a change concerning the fall of the holidays to the weekend. But even your party, who has called itself a right-wing party, did not dare to say that if we did not work, the economy would not grow. We will not have any added value with this. Jürgen Ligi answered the journalist's question that, well, I guess, it depends on the circumstances and so on. You didn't have the guts to say that. If we make the post holiday Monday day off, it would certainly be a popular decision in society, but it will not give the country more revenue if we get more and more rest. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U108	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! I understand you haven't had a chance to praise yourself in a long time. Well, now you could do it. But I would remind you that the members of the Riigikogu asked questions about what they were interested in, not what you were interested in. You talked a lot about labour and taxes, but it was about taxes more generally. The thing is, the projections are being made all the time. The justification that the forecast is still coming is not adequate. Perhaps you would still mention the projected tax burden in 2018? I know, there's a number.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U110	Thank you, good questioner. I do not know if you have been out of the hall in the meantime, but I have already said once that the tax burden will be 35% in 2017, 35.8% in 2018, 35.6% in 2019 and 35.2% by 2020. And effective labour tax rates are 34.3% in 2017, 33.9% in 2018, 34.1% in 2019 and 34.2% in 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U111	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm taking this opportunity to have you in this room tonight. My question is also linked to increasing the tax burden. How far is the subject of car tax and real estate tax now in the Ministry? Are these on the agenda? At least the car tax is related to consumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U113	Thank you. IRL is not the only party in the government, but I dare say that as long as IRL is in the government, there will be no car tax. We have said that as our election promise. I will be honest with you that the car tax was on the table during the coalition negotiations in November, and there is nothing strange about it. In the coalition negotiations, there was also the restoration of corporate tax on the table. I've said this before and I'm also saying here that there's nothing weird about it. The progressive income tax was on the table, and so was the car tax. IRL has said in its election promises that we do not support car tax. I do not rule out that we are also the only party that has said so. However, there will be no regular annual or quarterly car tax. However, when we are talking about a registration fee, which will be a one-off fee for registration of a car, this issue is currently being analysed. The car tax, which should be paid at a certain time in a fixed amount but does not have to be paid, at least not as long as the IRL is in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U114	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U115	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! You did not answer the question asked by the previous questioner. Is real estate tax coming or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U116	Thank you. We have also said that rather the opposite. Look at the IRL election promises and the decisions that have been made! There's always a way you can promise a lot, but you might not be able to do anything. The question is, what can you do? One of IRL's earlier electoral promises was the tax exemption for the land under home, and we have been very much criticised for this. We have been accused of having an underground land as one of the best objects to tax. One thing or another can be installed from one place to another, but the land under home cannot be moved, so it's a very good tax object, you always get that money. We say, on the contrary, this is not a good tax item. I'm sorry, but if tax policy can at some point create the situation that an older lady is forced to leave her home because she cannot pay a large country tax, I think there is something wrong in this country. And I'm sure we're not in favour of real estate tax right now either.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U117	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. However, they want to open negotiations. This round will be opened by Aivar Sõerd. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure a little bit of insight was helpful. We really took a long time to make a long effort, after all, an inquiry was submitted at the beginning of January from an official source that this year, at least according to current forecasts, our tax burden will reach the highest level ever: 35% of GDP. But that's not all. Next year's tax burden will increase considerably to 35.8%. And certainly, the main reason is not the fall in dividend income tax, which, at least for the time being, should add tax revenue. At the same time, we know that it is permissible to introduce a car tax, there has been talk of a tax on mortgage income, of a bank tax. The Minister also mentioned the increase in excise duty. There's been talk of sweetness. It is clear that all these new taxes and increases in excise duty, which have already been adopted by law, will increase the tax burden. The tax and budgetary policy of the new government is intended to collect as much revenue as possible so that it can then be distributed fairly. But it is clear that all of this has an impact on the economy. I do not know that in some countries the increase in the tax burden has contributed to economic growth. On the contrary, in any case, tax increases hinder economic growth, and this is clearly contrary to the new government's promise to promote economic growth. If we also look at the new spring economic forecast published by the European Commission today, we can see that this year's growth forecast of 2.5% has been revised downwards to 2.2%. Of course, the tax burden is not the only factor affecting economic growth. Above all, growth in export demand will be affected by growth, or vice versa, as we look at the increase in import demand, with our main trading partners. Finland in particular shows growth figures in this respect. It is clear that the government has very few instruments at all to use to influence the economy. One of these is certainly tax policy and also fiscal policy. The increase in the tax burden and its continuation next year will in any case be counterproductive to the objective of greater economic growth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U119	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U120	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! I didn't mean to come here and talk, so I'll be relatively brief. But when I heard the current Minister of Finance speaking here, I wanted to say a few words. I haven't heard such praise from this remote for a long time. It felt like the IRL had never been in government before, and all the good things that have ever been done have only been done because of the IRL. But that's it. In fact, it's hard to praise yourself when you're dealing with crap. It was awfully difficult to get answers, and there is still a question for me, which is why the Minister couldn't say these figures when he was here last and when we tried to get the tax bill from him. Then he told us about how better tax collection will make everyone's lives better and thus increase the tax burden. There was no mention of improving tax collection today. The reason is simple: instead of improving tax collection, tax collection has started to deteriorate and this is because envelope wages are increasing. So the power to raise the tax burden on you! It is clear that we are commended for what is being done. The Minister announced that there would be no car tax and no progressive income tax. I'm sorry, we already have progressive income tax. It's a little weird, but he's gradual. And car tax can be called whatever it takes, for example, motor tax or something else. It is a question of content; the question is whether the sale or possession of a car will be taxed. Yes, it is! Things can just be called wrong names. As regards the exemption from tax on the land under home, the soul of an analyst who was in me years ago still says that this is one of the most foolish decisions we have ever made in the tax system. And the second stupid decision is this weird income tax refund this year. But that's what I think. So good Sven! I would like you to answer the clear questions of the members of the Riigikogu frankly in the future for the sake of specificity. I realize that sometimes it's uncomfortable to do this, we understand that. But don't be afraid to give honest answers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U121	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U122	Honourable President! Honourable colleagues, who are still here? Dear Minister, It is sympathetic that the Minister is also prepared to listen to our speeches. But with the words of one countryman you could say that the Ducks gone, the eggs gone. Why am I talking about this? I am talking about this for a number of reasons. I came across a study today, because our honourable colleague, Vakra, explained somewhere on social media how long the Social Democrats have been in the government. I noticed a schedule, and it seems to me that the worsening of apparent country syndrome is still on the agenda. In itself, it is sympathetic that the Reform Party has been in government for so long and dares to take responsibility, and dares to take responsibility in the future. But there is one simple reason for this: The Reform Party has remained a Reform Party. When I looked at these tables, I saw that they really, in comparison, give society a signal that the Reform Party seems to be responsible alone. Since many political parties have already changed several times, statistically this may seem adequate, but in essence it is certainly not. What bothers me terribly is that we are in the process of creating an illusion, whether it relates to free days or to extensive tax returns, that we can get rich without work. This is completely absurd! In my opinion, this support should be called the right name: when we talk about social support, it should be shown through social measures. We should be glad that the income of low-paid people increases by 10% or more because of tax refunds. But so there will be no pressure on employers to create more jobs with higher incomes. This will not be done or will be done to a lesser extent. As our population decreases, we have a shortage of labour, it is absolutely necessary to create more jobs with a decent income, also bearing in mind the results of mechanisation and automation. I deliberately asked why, as a result of a relatively modest analysis, the government is prepared to allocate nearly 40 million euros to the city of Tallinn, while the Minister for Rural Affairs must go to negotiate with the Minister for Finance to get an agreement to allocate a few million, not directly from the state budget, but by redeploying European Union funds. There are inevitably questions. IRL has criticised Tallinn City Government very strongly because of its activities. Let's talk about expenses for Tallinn TV and so on. Very simply, 40 million were given to develop an object belonging to the city. I am happy to ask, as has been asked in rural areas, whether this 40 million could not be used to build or renovate rural houses if they needed a new roof or whatever. As regards the increase in the tax burden, I would agree with the various proposals and actions of the government if it were not for the money simply to be taken away from some people and transferred. I don't think it's very adequate in the long run. If the extra money had been received because of the growth of the economy, or because of the increase in taxes that come directly from business, higher-paid jobs, etc., it would clearly be more adequate than just taking money away from some people and telling them that we are giving it to others and that they will be happy. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U123	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U124	Thank you. I don't understand how it's possible to make me or anyone else happy by taking money away from a neighbor and giving it to me. How can I be happier? It's grotesque. I come from a deep Soviet era, or born in 1965, and went to school in the '70s. I lived in a small town in a small apartment with a private kitchen. We had two small rooms at our disposal. Many of my schoolmates and school nurses lived in their own apartment or in their own house. But I don't remember ever having a discussion about you being rich because you're living in your house, or because someone wanted to repress me because of this joint apartment. Now, I think we're just going this way to take money away from people who earn more than average, but let's forget how they've gotten there. I think it's dangerous. It is as dangerous as punishing people who are willing to work in many places to increase their income. That is why I cannot accept possible tax increases. I cannot accept in the long term that such a refund in the form of that tax refund is sustainable. It's giving the wrong signal. If we have social problems, we must resolve them literally through social measures and make an effort to enable people to earn more. The goal must not be for someone to give back tax money to someone. I really very much hope that the negotiations with the Minister for Rural Affairs, Tarmo Tamme, will go well because, as I can see, there is a desire to support various projects. For a few million Tori horse farms and the entire sector, the disappearing small amount is compared to 40 million for the richest city in Estonia, Tallinn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U125	The next negotiator is Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U126	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! Colleagues! I didn't really plan on coming to this remote control, because to be absolutely crystal honest, I don't think I'm a very strong tax specialist. Aivar Sõerd and Maris Lauri are definitely a head of better specialists. But some things got in my ear, and I thought I'd come and say what I thought. First of all, it is as if the previous government had not participated in the IRL and soccer as partners. You did! I remember very clearly how the current Minister of Finance, as former Minister of Finance, defended the previous cluster bill for tax increases, defended passionately, tax increases were done. Now he was just as passionate about protecting this cluster bill, pushing through with a rubber stamp, doing it. So in this sense, politics is still a very consistent thing, and perhaps there is little point in blaming a partner who fell out of the government for doing it because they were the only ones who did it. You still made a bunch of guys, fellas. Let us accept this and continue to look honestly into each other's eyes in the mirror. That's one thing. The second thing I learned was that free days don't add anything to the economy. This is somewhat debatable. If I go to the mall this weekend, I can see how much more people there are than how many people there are on working days. This means that people go to the mall and they use their money to make purchases, and it comes into the state budget in the form of taxes. On top of that, these shops, the chains that sell their services and goods. Maybe I get something wrong, but my simple mind does say that taxes come from consumption to a large extent. Of course not only, it's clear. But I had some questions about it. Thirdly, any tax increases have basically rational objectives. If we could live in a tax-free society, it would be great, but we can't. We need certain balance mechanisms in society and the collection and use of taxes, and the distribution of tax money is a way of launching these balance mechanisms. At least that's how I get it. Now, the question is, everything has a certain ceiling. This ceiling may be glass and may not always stand out, but if you get to that glass charge at one point, you'll still feel there's a line ahead. Let me give you an example. One of my sons is a doctor and works as a replacement doctor in Finland. Why am I saying this? Because we have the impression that Estonian doctors are all rushing to Finland because there are no doctors in Finland. There are plenty of doctors in Finland, it is a question of the Finnish tax system. Finnish doctors earn so well that they do not need to work full-time in most cases. If they work full-time, their tax burden will increase to such an extent that they will be more useful to work in half or three-quarters of a place. Basically, they don't earn more when they work full-time, because they lose most in taxes, but they spend their time and energy with the family or whatever, more than it's worth. This is what causes the drought of doctors, and this drought is alleviated by substitute doctors from Estonia. This is a concrete example of a ceiling at some point when any taxes are raised. I have this feeling that the ceiling will soon be here in Estonia. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U127	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U128	If we look at this savage round of alcohol that we have between Latvia, this is clearly the result of tax increases. Again, we cannot approach things only on the financial side. We must also approach them on the side that the police complain that the number of accidents on the road to Tallinn and Tartu has increased sharply, because people are racing to buy Valka vodka. This, too, is the damage that we must bear in mind and what it would be useful to foresee when raising taxes. Now for rationality. We know very well that tens of thousands of people in Estonia work in Tallinn up to 100 kilometres away, driving cars to work. One minute, there's a line. One of my neighbors said that this last increase in excise duty took the slightest thought from him to take his car to work in Tallinn. That's it. He now has a choice: either to stop working in Tallinn and then we all scream even louder that we do not have enough labour or to move away, which means deepening peripheralisation. Another house is empty. This, too, is the damage that must be borne in mind. So the question is that all political decisions, including tax increases, must have a rational point. If this rational point is limited to the fact that we count the bill, how much we can get into the state budget by raising it, and we can therefore be old-fashioned and make repayments and increase any subsidies, then failing to take account of the losses involved may ultimately lead to us actually dealing with minuses. I have a feeling that the relevant analyses have perhaps been carried out superficially, or if they have been done carefully, they have not been adequately taken into account. Once again, I'm not a big tax specialist and I don't want to point out that the Ministry of Finance is doing a bad job, that he doesn't know anything. Maybe I just don't know anything, but as an observer, such thoughts arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U129	Are there no more requests to speak? Or would the Minister like to make a statement? Please, you have every right to do so!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Just as others have started their speech, I say that I did not plan to come here today. But I can see that everything that's going on here is like mush and cabbages. That's how I thought I'd mark a few things anyway. I'm surprised you didn't finally get to the refugees. Sooner or later, you should have reached the subject you are always talking about, these are refugees. However, it seems that this issue is no longer the most topical in Europe, and so you did not reach it either. But that's it. Each subject has something to do with it. I want to tell you a few things, both in the hall and to the good listeners who are watching us over the Internet. You know, there's a certain amount of political foam in everything that's been said here. Take a few things back into the right frames. I have said this before and I will say this in the future: better tax collection will increase the tax burden. Tax reductions may also increase the tax burden. How can a tax reduction increase the tax burden? But look, that's exactly what's gonna happen in 2018. In 2018, mature companies will be stimulated by the reduction of their dividend income tax rate from 20% to 14%. As a result of this stimulus, companies are more likely to pay more money to the state budget, they will start paying more dividends and the state will receive more tax on dividends. This will also increase the tax burden in 2018. Therefore, better tax collection will increase the tax burden. I'm just gonna let you know. Over the years, much has been said about increasing the excise duty on lean alcohol, to which the Reform Party has strongly opposed. I remember the previous vote in the Committee on Monetary Affairs when I myself was a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I guess it was that the Centre Party and the Reform Party were on one side and the Social Democrats and the IRL were on the other side. The subject of discussion was whether or not the excise duty on lean alcohol should be increased further. You won that time. Loose alcohol has become increasingly cheaper over time. Increasing the excise duty on lean alcohol increases the tax burden. It is true that this will increase the tax burden next year and will also increase the tax burden next year. The increase in excise duties will generate additional money in the budget. In the case of lean alcohol, we are talking about 60 extra million in 2018. The tax burden is increasing by 0.3%. You fought against it. We have different opinions. Once again, we should pay attention to the Reform Party. If you want to be a right party too, think about how to lower the tax burden on labour. A lower tax burden on labour is crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U131	Thank you to the Minister. The answer to the second question is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U132	The third question is submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsep, Andres Ammas, Artur Talvik and Ain Lutsep, which is about the Tsorus shop of Tamme Arvo. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U133	Mr President! Dear Minister, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In fact, the question had been raised even more clearly: what can we do to keep Tamme Arvo's shop in the Tsorus? Undoubtedly, in order to assess excise rates in Estonia and Latvia, we could also ask what could be the optimal difference between excise duties so that mass cross-border purchases of alcohol are avoided. If such alcohol trade occurs, any other border trade will soon follow. I went to this beautiful shop myself, the Cheoru Rural People's Shopping Centre, just before the New Year's Eve, and compared the price level there with what was a few decades away from Apes. I also saw what's going on in Valka, where you have to turn a hundred meters off the highway to get to the liquor store hangar. What a liquor race it actually takes! This raises all these questions, including the survival of a small business in South Estonia, when it happens to be a shopkeeper. There aren't many shops like this. Small shops are chained up. There's our chain, there's the chain A and O, they're in trouble too, and they're shutting down their stores every year. However, a specific example is one small enterprise with only two shops. An elementary price survey shows that alcohol and tobacco products are driven out of Estonia to buy out. There is nothing to do, a large part of the turnover of the country shops consists of excise goods, alcohol and tobacco products. As these excise duties have risen rapidly, the goods sold in Estonia are considerably more expensive than in Latvia. In these circumstances, it is more than difficult for a small enterprise to continue and it also has an impact on regional policy. At times, it seems that the regional policy of the Estonian state is that at least from South Estonia and more and more further away, it is driven to Latvia for beer. We also consider that public finances are not well affected by the fact that tax money flows into the budget of a neighbouring country. One analyst has rightly called it this way that our government is talking about the taxation of vices, but in fact we have received corrupt taxation. The Minister also had one glitch in replying to the previous inquiry: he said that we were ready to raise vices. Apparently, he meant the mantra that Taavi Kõivas has been making since the previous government: we tax vices. But really, vices have been raised. Border trade has taken on such a scale in a relatively short time that it may not be as easy to reverse. I think there's enough to compare the substance to that. Let us take the border trade, which, as a result of the much smaller differences in excise duty, has arisen near the border between Denmark and Germany. At first, alcohol is involved, but then all other goods come up to the plants and furniture and come up with shopping paradises. We felt it for a while too, because our alcohol has been cheaper than in Finland. The state of affairs has now turned so that people come from Finland to travel through Estonia to make their purchases in Latvia. There is probably some sort of optimal difference between excise duties that have been exceeded several times and will be exceeded further in the coming year. Hence all the issues concerning the correction of errors in excise policy and the situation of small businesses in South Estonia. The inquiry is addressed to the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U134	Finance Minister Sven Sester will answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U135	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, So I'm gonna answer what I have to do to keep Tamme Arvo's store in the Tsorus. An inquiry shall bear the number 291. I'll read the question and then I'll answer it. First questions 1 and 2, I'll answer them together. 'What measures are you planning to correct errors in excise policy? ' and 'What is your reply to Mr Arvo Tamme's e-mail regarding the government's excise policy? " It is true that excise differences with neighbouring countries have the most impact on border shops, but a large difference in the price of alcohol in Estonia and Latvia cannot be justified by excise duty alone. The excise price difference between Estonia and Latvia has been around 12 cents since March 2017 for a beer bottle of 0.5 litre and 1 euro and 88 cents for a bottle of 0.5 litre. The remaining price difference is due to other factors that Estonia cannot directly influence. While the vodka sold in Tsorus was about half a liter, 40 degrees worth 3.33 euros more than the vodka sold in Valka in Latvia in December last year, the difference in excise duty was slightly less than half that difference, i.e. 1 euro and 54 cents. In small shops, prices are usually higher because, at low sales volumes, the extra costs (transport, point of sale, etc.) per unit of goods are higher. The store specialising in the sale of alcohol in the city centre of Tallinn also has lower prices of beer, vodka and, for example, liquor Vana Tallinn than a small shop in Tsorus. In Latvia, food prices are influenced, among other things, by lower labour tax costs. We were just talking about the workforce. One of the objectives of the alcohol duty policy is to reduce alcohol consumption by means of increased excise duties. Alcohol consumption in Estonia has decreased year after year. In 2014, according to the Estonian Institute of Economic Affairs, we consumed 11.09 litres of absolute alcohol per year, which is then on average at least 15 years old per person, but in 2015 it was 10.34 litres per year. If consumption decreases, this will mean a decrease in sales volumes for merchants. However, the positive impact of a reduction in drinking should outweigh the negative impact on society in terms of lower sales volumes. The fact that some people use the opportunity to buy alcohol in neighbouring countries, where it is cheaper, will undoubtedly affect the border shops more, but excise policy cannot be both reducing alcohol consumption in Estonia as a whole and encouraging it in border regions. The background should be taken into account that in 2016, there were 2868 retail outlets for alcohol in Estonia, 351 in Finland and 436 in Sweden. There are 1.3 million residents in Estonia, 5.5 million in Finland, 9.6 million in Sweden. If there is one liquor store in Estonia for 453 people, there is one liquor store in Finland for 15700 people and for 22000 people in Sweden. Finally, I note that excise duties on alcohol in the Baltic countries may start to converge again. This is referred to by Lithuania's decision to increase the excise duty rate on lean alcohol by just over 100% and strong alcohol by around 23% from 1 March 2017. This also gives Latvia the opportunity to justify a faster increase in alcohol duty than planned and this in turn could affect cross-border trade. Question 3: "How do you view the recommendations in the Green Paper on alcohol policy? Please highlight what recommendations in the Green Paper will help the Tsoru shop to survive and what will make it even more difficult to run a shop. " If the store's goal is to keep as much alcohol as possible, the Green Paper does not favor it. Honestly! The Green Paper sets out measures to reduce alcohol consumption, which, in addition to measures affecting the price of alcohol, will use all other means of achieving this objective, in particular payment. These are sales organisation, advertising, surveillance, prevention of the spread of secret alcohol, as well as prevention. Question 4: "What tax distinctions or measures to encourage entrepreneurship are you planning to contribute to the preservation of entrepreneurship in South-East Estonia? " On the website of the Ministry of Finance, the South East Estonia Action Plan for 2015 has been published. It focuses on entrepreneurship. The government does not intend to introduce tax differences in support of the sale of alcohol. However, regional policy has an impact on income tax returns for low-paid people, which can be applied for this year when submitting a tax return, as well as on tax-free income that will be more effective next year. Both measures increase proportionally the incomes and purchasing power of those who receive a lower salary. At the same time, I believe that people will find a better application for this extra money than buying alcohol for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U136	Andres Herkel will open the round of questions, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In fact, this Green Paper on alcohol policy is very useful for Tamme Arvo if you appreciate it today. It is put together in 2014 and, among other things, it contains one such principle, which states that the aim is to increase excise duties on alcohol by an average of 5% per year over the next four years. For what reasons have we gone on a much faster road to lifting? Why are we going past the pace of the Green Paper with these kangaroo jumps?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U138	Thank you. Such questions are asked by all groups of alcohol lobby. All groups of alcohol lobby want to know exactly the same thing. There have been some in-depth studies of this in various health organisations. And these have been very different organisations! The objective is very clear: alcohol must not become cheaper over time. This is one of the most easily understood reasons for raising excise duty. There are certainly dozens of other reasons, but I will highlight the simplest reason: alcohol must not become cheaper. If, for various reasons, our income increases with good government work, reductions in tax rates, simply wage increases or whatever other reason, alcohol must not be cheapened. Strong alcohol isn't cheap now, but lean alcohol would have been cheap without an increase in excise duty. In the case of lean alcohol, the proportion of excise duty in the price of the final product is significantly lower. In short, when the excise duty on lean alcohol increases by 10%, the price of the final product will be added to 2%. A one-euro jar will cost one euro and two euro cents. Two cents! So the relative price will become cheaper over time. That is why the aim is to increase excise duties.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U139	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U140	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I was very sad to hear the tone of your answer. Your message was that in Southeast Estonia, small shops are only out on sale of alcohol and fit for them. I don't think that's a sensible attitude. We don't have bank offices or ATMs in the country. We don't have post offices in the country anymore. No public transport, no jobs. And now, even the few jobs that shoppers have, we're gonna lose too. Don't need them either! I don't want to accept that attitude at government level. One question that has arisen: you have said that if these freight journeys continue across the Latvian border, the raids of the Tax and Customs Board will be tightened. How does this coincide with the principles of the European common market, the principle of free trade?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U141	Now you've raised the ball, and I'm gonna have to kill it. You put things in my mouth, and I'm gonna have to turn them over. I certainly have to do this in the introduction, because otherwise it will sound as if I had said that nothing should be sold in the country, or vice versa, that it is precisely one thing or another that must be sold. You asked how to take the recommendations of the Green Paper on alcohol policy in the light of the example of the Tsoru store. I said that if the store's goal is to sell as much alcohol as possible, the Green Paper will not help. The aim of the Green Paper is to reduce the amount of alcohol consumed. True, our strategic documents are aimed at reducing the amount of alcohol, believe me! It is not possible to do that in our country the aim is to reduce drinking, and at the same time in a particular region we want to encourage the sale of alcohol. Absolutely not! I believe that you agree with me that this certainly should not be an objective. As far as the other side of your question is concerned, what is the European Union's common understanding of the quantities of alcohol transported across borders, it is clearly regulated. I have said this several times before that cross-border trade, as long as standards are respected, does not raise any questions. We have held debates on this issue in society, and the European Union has now regulated this area. In the case of both strong and lean alcohol, certain quantitative restrictions apply to tax-free cross-border movements.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U142	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U143	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I'll tell you in secret, I'm from Valga. Where do you get this beer price of 12 cents per half-litre jar? I don't know what kind of store you go to. I can say that Latvian half-litre Lidskoje beer and German half-litre Holsten beer can be reached in Latvia with 45 and 46 cents from Valka, and the Estonian tax mark is on top. In Estonia, these beers cost 90 cents plus tara. I'm not going to calculate the difference. Maybe you can do that. There's no point in fuckin' around here!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U144	No, I'm not messing with you. Perhaps my dictation is bad and I should improve the dictation so that you understand correctly. Maybe I'll swallow the endings. I quote once again my sentence: the price difference between Estonia and Latvia due to excise duty has been around 12 cents since March 2017 for a can of beer of half a litre. This is the price difference resulting from the excise duty. All other price differences are due to the profit demands of the different parties, etc. The difference resulting from the excise duty is 12 cents. Let me give you an example. True story, the Maarahva Kaubamaja Tsorus sells beer for 1 euro with 20 cents, Regalia sells it in Tallinn with 0.65 cents and SuperAlko Valkas with 0.54-0.73 cents. If you look at the prices of Regalia and SuperAlko, that's exactly what the excise difference is. Both have made their other costs lower. So it is possible to buy beer almost twice as cheap in the centre of Tallinn as Tsoorus. This is a real situation. Both shops operate in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U145	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It's good to hear that you're worried about public health and that you're good at making people drink less. But my question is about the thing that I didn't hear the slightest hint of your answer to: what are we going to do to keep these little shops so that we can keep our lives on the outskirts? What are these specific regional policy measures? And please stop talking about tax incentives or tax refunds.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U147	Thank you. You're gonna ask me and tell me not to say that or that. I'm talking about what I think and what I see, how things can work. It's up to you to assess whether these thoughts are good or bad. As I said, we are not going to introduce tax distinctions in any territory, either in Southeast Estonia or elsewhere. We plan measures as a whole throughout Estonia. A number of planned tax-simplifying measures support entrepreneurship in all places, as well as in South-East Estonia. If you tell me not to talk about the tax refund, Sven, I will tell you, for example, about the business account, which will certainly help businesses to get at a lower rate. I am thinking of a 20%-tax business account with which I will be coming to the Riigikogu soon. I'm going to defend it, and we can debate each other. Further: harmonising the tax rules for self-employed people in order to make the system easier and more comfortable for them; abolishing the VAT increase in accommodation services, which will certainly make a major contribution to the success of the accommodation companies in South-East Estonia; stopping the increase in excise duties on fuel in 2018, which was planned so far. I just brought some examples that contribute to entrepreneurship in Southeast Estonia as well as in our other regions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U148	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Your main activity in the fight against alcohol is to raise prices. On the other hand, however, you have said that do not worry, because of the refund of income tax you can buy as much beer as before or now more. But what I absolutely don't see in government action is preventive action. In time, money is put into all other activities, but not prevention. If that's where they give you more money, they're so small, they don't look like foam. Are you denying my statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U150	Thank you for a good question. Once again, I have the opportunity to repeat my words from the introductory speech. I said, in answer to the third question, that, in addition to the increases in excise duty, codes of conduct have been drawn up, they also exist in the Green Paper, which relates to sales management, advertising, monitoring, non-proliferation of secret alcohol and prevention. This package exists. I fully agree with you that, of course, one measure is not enough if you want to tackle this problem. One measure alone will not help. And we do have an operational package.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U151	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, There was an interesting moment in your presentation that I would like to ask you more specifically. The fact that Lithuanian excise duty increased is known. But maybe you'll talk a little bit more about the plans to increase the Latvian excise duty. I understand you have more information than the public knows. The Latvian border is currently facing the construction of new liquor stores on the Latvian side. Land shops will be closed on the Estonian side. If we look at the latest forecasts from the European Commission, we can see that inflation is likely to increase in Lithuania this year, due to the rise in excise duties, and this is not predicted for Latvia. Where does your information come from that Latvia is going to increase excise duty on alcohol? Please tell us more about Latvia's plans.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U153	Thank you. The decisions that have been taken in the past are available on the website of the Latvian Ministry of Finance or the Tax Administration. I know that one of these papers also has their entire programme for the next period. It is also possible to print everything out for yourself and to look calmly at the rise planned for each year at home. I have already said and repeat this: if Lithuania has made its strong increase, if it has raised the excise duty rate on lean alcohol by more than 100%, then it could give Latvia an additional opportunity to take similar political decisions in the future. Whether they still take decisions in this regard depends, of course, on themselves. But now the near-term increases are planned in Lithuania, and if we look at what is about to change in Latvia, we will see that in March they will also have such increases. For example, when we are talking about standard excise rates for beer, it is 4.5 euros of ethanol per 1% vol per hectolitre in Latvia, 7.11 euros in Lithuania, 9.11 euros in Estonia and 32 euros in Finland. We're talking about rates of excise duty, right, not the final price of the product. Such examples of this palace. But as you know, excise duty on alcohol is only part of the final price of the product. In summary, as I said before, the price difference due to excise duty for a half litre can of beer is 12 euro cents. If the difference in final prices is greater, there are other reasons at stake: whether the costs are higher or if higher profits are sought, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U154	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U155	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. He's gotten to the ear that you've explained why excise duties are being raised prematurely by the fact that people's incomes have increased. Is this the philosophical basis of the government's tax policy that, when people's incomes grow, taxes should be increased immediately?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U156	Thank you. The issue is not that people's incomes are increasing. We need to maximise ourselves, and if you ever get into government, you should think about it too, so that people's incomes increase. The question is whether or not alcohol will become cheaper than income. The reason for this is the consequence. If alcohol becomes cheaper over time, this is one of the reasons why excise duty should be increased. It mustn't get any cheaper.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U157	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions at the moment, but you will have the opportunity to speak after the negotiations. You've used it once today. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U158	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I admit it's a little hard to compete with Sven Sester in demagogy. However, the Minister missed some of the questions quite smoothly. In my opinion, this is not so simple that our good alcohol policy and all the measures aimed at reducing advertising and preventing the formation of secret alcohol are harmful to the shopkeeper. In particular, this is not a restriction of secret alcohol. But the excise policy that we had in the past was organised in this way, let us recall, even at the time of Mart Laar's first government, that one of the golden principles was that excise duties should not rise at such a rate as to encourage the worse. At that time, the main vice evidently was secret alcohol, which came in and was sold on a massive scale. It was a reaction to an excessive increase in excise duty. We are now at a different stage of our development. I cannot assess the proportion of illicit alcohol, but it is likely that border trade near the Latvian border is a much more important problem. It's actually not just for itself. It will certainly also be purchased for the purpose of reselling it either between the village of Tsoru or somewhere further away. As far as I know, the problem is that they go to Latvia to get this stuff and then somebody sells it between villages or towns. And this action goes far beyond the Thorus. One of the places I've heard of is Blackwater. The men there drive to Latvia, fill the car with alcohol, and sell it on the spot. Our current excise policy only pours oil into the fire. The Minister says that the price difference is not only due to the excise duty, that there are other reasons for it. Indeed, it probably is. But it should no longer be poured into the oil by stretching the excise gap so much. The question must probably be raised as to how much difference there could be between excise duties on alcohol in two countries so that border trade does not become a problem. I think it could be 20-25%. From there on, the border trade is probably beginning to emerge under the Nature Act. The Minister told us that there was hope of harmonising excise duties on alcohol in the Baltic countries, because Lithuania is raising them. You see, this is probably preventing something bad from happening on the Lithuanian and Latvian borders, but it does not affect at all the cross-border trade that we have allowed to develop near the Estonian and Latvian borders. I have before me a table showing the European Union's excise duty on beer: how many euros per litre of beer in 5% is it without VAT. And here Latvia is at the very bottom of row 19, with 0.21 euros. Lithuania is even lower with EUR 0.16. Even if Lithuania raises the excise duty by 100%, its rates remain relatively similar to those of Latvia. Estonia's figure as of 1 July 2017 is 0.78 euros and from 2018 it will be 0.92 euros. And this difference in excise duties between neighbouring countries is probably the biggest difference in the European Union. The consequence is probably that the border trade that has arisen there in Valka will immediately spread to Ape. The same Alko1000 and SuperAlko are opening their stores also in Apes. Some people get a closer look at the alcohol. It's all just getting worse. To be honest, I'm afraid the genie that the last government let out of the bottle is very difficult to get back in. The Minister's answers, however, revealed...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U159	Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U160	...that it's not to be rescinded. Thank you and apologize for passing time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U161	In the case of negotiations, you would have been able to get three more minutes. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U162	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, It is sad that we did not get an answer to this specific question. So, what are we gonna tell Tsoru's shopkeeper? How could he survive? That made me feel the most bad about these answers. From time to time, we are being tried to hang on to the accusation that we are, as if, advocates of alcohol due to these questions. This is a completely wrong approach for a number of reasons. The honourable minister pointed out that alcohol must not be cheapened over time. You can understand that. Then you could say that if the price of alcohol rises compared to our incomes, there will be a 0: 0 game and there will be no significant impact on alcohol consumption. However, it can be absolutely certain that if a product is made into a certain mysterious character, which you must cross the Latvian border in hordes, it will not contribute to the reduction of alcohol consumption. This can certainly be said because the general practice of such a thing is very clear: alcohol is purchased not only for consumption in the near future but for longer periods and also for sales to others. Really, I don't want to be paranoid, but what does a small merchant have to do? He must probably gather his family, drive to Latvia, buy as much alcohol as possible there and sell it in Estonia in order to increase and live his income in this way. However, this is certainly not a good plan. I also do not agree that small shopkeepers are being accused of living out of alcohol sales. In order to understand trade, one simple thing must be understood: in the case of shops, it is a certain structure of the turnover of goods. Unreasonably removing part of the structure reduces the income of economic activity. And it is not possible to replace this deficit. If all of this would only result in us being very successful in implementing alcohol policy and to be acknowledged, our average annual consumption has decreased statistically, then you could understand that. But if consumption is statistically simply diverted to another country, then we certainly will not win. We lose tax money and we get the feeling that alcohol consumption in Estonia has decreased, but it is a deceptive feeling. One important thing remained unmarked today. Here, representatives of the lobby group of soft alcohol producers were appointed, which I, as if, should be part of. But in my previous post, I also had information that is possessed by the current Minister of Health and Labour. In those countries where lean alcohol is more popular and has a higher share, the health effects of alcohol, public health indicators and risks are clearly different. We must admit to ourselves that, compared with the countries of southern Europe, we clearly consume more strong alcohol. In my opinion, the rational consumption of alcohol is a question of culture, and we should explain these things from the countryside to be able to handle alcohol. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U163	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U164	However, when it comes to the fact that we are very happy that our alcohol consumption is decreasing as a statistical average, it must be taken into account that the groups for which over-consumption is a clear social problem are the most damaging to the country. We will certainly not achieve this easing by raising the excise duty, because these people will find time to travel to another country and buy cheaper alcohol. This is more a sign that our average consumption may be much higher than the statistics show. And with this social problem, the state as a whole may not win financially. I am very sad that we have not been able to give this Tsoru merchant a specific recommendation today. If we give this income to the Latvian merchant and to the Latvian state, this is certainly not the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U165	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U166	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm certainly not the representative of any lobbyist group. At all, such stamping was very inappropriate at the moment, since the inquiry focused on the concern of the Tsoru merchant. If the government doesn't take into account what needs to be done to keep life on the outskirts and develop, if it doesn't understand the concerns of small shopkeepers, it doesn't honor him. Should be able to look at Estonia as a whole and it should not be easy to judge that the advocates of the Tsoru store are suddenly representatives of a group of lobbyists. It's no good at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U167	If the Minister does not wish to speak, I will close the negotiations. The third question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U168	Today's final question is submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Andres Herkel, Ain Lutsep, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsep, Andres Ammas, Jüri Adams and Monika Haukanõmme. The topic is Rail Baltica-related expenditure in the state budget. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U169	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Honourable colleagues! I am really proud of you that you are this last but very important question about the costs of Rail Baltica in the state budget to listen to this hall. Their concerns are driven by a lack of information and conflicting information about the financing of Rail Baltica's railway connection. It is not clear to us what financial obligations and the extent to which the Estonian state will assume in this regard. It is an interesting coincidence, in itself, that on today's day of reply to the inquiry, the same day that we sit in this Chamber, an outstanding article was published in the newspaper Postimees' online publication, which reveals what was discussed at the 2011 meeting of the Office of Government, which included the report on Rail Baltica there. Anyone who reads it may wonder why this report was classified for nearly six years. As our good colleague Igor Gräzin says in his commentary on this article, the State Chancellery made itself a fool twice by deciding to classify it and now by taking it down. Why it was done is kind of incomprehensible. Perhaps because six years ago, the government actually saw the need for much greater self-financing than has been the case since. It has always been said that the EU contribution rate could be 85% for some data and 82% for others for the entire project. But only two days after the Prime Ministers of the three Baltic States had signed the agreement, the CEO of the RB Rail Joint Undertaking of Rail Baltica, Baiba Rubesa, made a very remarkable statement. He said that, after 2020, the European Union's support for the Rail Baltica project could be reduced due to the tense geopolitical situation with regard to Brexit, the refugee crisis and the security situation. If we recall well, the Brexit referendum was in June 2016. The refugee crisis and the security situation have not changed much in the last few days in the world and here in our region. How, then, is it that the contract is signed first and two days later, the CEO of RB Rail AS, Baiba Rubesa, announces how things can actually go? We hope to get good answers from the Minister to the questions asked in our inquiry, and if you do not mind, perhaps you will also comment on the statements made by the esteemed Latvian CEO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U170	Finance Minister Sven Sester will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U171	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I will respond to an inquiry on Rail Baltica's expenditure in the state budget. The inquiry shall bear number 301. First the question and then the answer. 'What is the annual cost of Rail Baltica's new railway route to the state budget until the railway is completed? ' As we know, it is planned to use up to 85% of the European Union's resources for the construction of Rail Baltic, to which the state will add its own funding. The estimated total cost of work on Estonian territory is 1.3 billion euros, including the state's own contribution of 250 million euros. The exact annual expenditure shall be established during each financial year in accordance with the actual use of the resources, which in turn shall depend on the timetable of the project and on the progress of the specific work. With the country's budgetary strategy, we will set out a cost forecast for the state budget for the next four years according to the timetable of the work. As mentioned, the state budget reflects both the European Union's resources and the state's own resources. The Ministry of Finance, including the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, shall submit its financing plans for the next four years to the Ministry of Finance by 1 March. Then an estimate of the costs for the next four years for Rail Baltic will also be provided. With the current state of play, Rail Baltic's forecast for next year's expenditure will then be set in the spring of last year for the state budget strategy: 52.33 million in 2017, 40.87 million in 2018, 71.28 million in 2019 and 74.06 million in 2020. So that's the total sum. In terms of proportion, therefore, the majority of the European Union's contribution and the State's own contribution represent a smaller proportion. If we give an example this year, out of 52.33 million, 10 million is state-owned funding, together with the contribution of local authorities, and 42.33 million is European Union support. In 2018, as I told you, it will cost 40.87 million, the state's own contribution will amount to 8.38 million of it and the European Union's contribution to 32.49 million. In this way, amounts can be foreseen for each year. The second question: 'What are the options for covering the financing needs of Rail Baltica, how much of the EU funds you expect, and what is the plan if these funds do not come in the expected amount? ' As I mentioned, we expect some 80 to 85% of the EU's funds to receive support, all of which depends on the nature of the specific activity to which the state will add its own funding. If, for any reason, these funds are very unlikely to fall away, we are in a new situation with the whole project, and then new analyses and agreements on the financing of further activities will have to be carried out. According to the Rail Baltic transnational agreement signed in January by the Prime Ministers of the Baltic States, in the event of a significant change in the financing possibilities of the project, a change in the timetable will be considered first and foremost. This would mean that the railway would be completed over a longer period than planned. Should there be force majeure that threatens the completion of the railway, the Baltic States, as partners in the project, will have to discuss the possibilities for its further implementation and renew the agreement if necessary. At present, there is no point in speculating about the loss of support from the European Union, as the entire Rail Baltic project is not just a private interest of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and other countries. This is the result of the European Parliament's fundamental decision to integrate the Member States more fully through better interconnections. The third question: 'What operational costs must we take into account annually after the railway is set up? ' With regard to the forecast of maintenance costs after the launch of Rail Baltic, we can rely on the results of the partially updated profitability analysis of AECOM in 2015. The year was 2011 when they did this study. The costs of maintaining rail links and maintaining rail, both directly and indirectly, have been taken into account, including the costs of maintaining and modernising both rail and electrical and safety systems. Due to the different intervals of maintenance and renewal work, these costs are not the same for each year and can therefore be referred to as a multi-annual average. According to the current assessment of experts from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the average cost is expected to be in the order of EUR 10 million per year. In line with national and European Union rail legislation, it is expected that the maintenance and maintenance costs of Rail Baltic will be covered by user charges after completion. Therefore, no additional costs should be incurred from the state budget after the completion of the railway. Question 4: "How many years will the data at your disposal represent a cost project, and whether and when can the cost conversion into revenue be predicted? " According to the schedule of the current Rail Baltic project, the completion of the new railway connection and the associated costs are planned to end in 2025. Revenue can start after the railway connection has started, and the current cost/benefit analyses take 30 years into account for the cost-benefit period. It's 2054. Assuming that the maximum possible amount of rail connection costs will be covered by the budget funds of the European Union, both for the current budget period 2014 to 2020 and for the next period 2021+, the subsidy rate will be 85% of the financing needs. Compulsory self-financing and expenditure that cannot be paid out of European Union funds are covered by the budgets of the Rail Baltic route countries, including Estonia. The result of the current cost-benefit analyses is that the project will pay off within 30 years. This means that then the revenues will exceed the costs. According to the partially updated analysis by AECOM in 2015, revenue from the Rail Baltic railway connection after its deployment exceeds the costs necessary to maintain the railway running from the first year onwards. I would point out that in the spring of this year, in particular in April, Ernst & Young should have a cost-benefit analysis, which should certainly be examined. This is very important to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U172	Questions for the Minister. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U173	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! If the results of the cost-benefit analysis in April are unexpectedly pessimistic, will this change the plans of our country's government regarding Rail Baltic? And I did not understand a bit, on which your optimism is still based, that funding for the European Union will continue to be so large after 2021. Maybe you can explain it better.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U174	Two questions. First, the cost-benefit study published in April and the resulting opinions. Let's wait for those conclusions. Of course, the question is, at what point should we change direction? Should the 20% reduction in the cost-benefit forecast lead to reverse decisions? If 35 years of payback are offered instead of 30 years, should we take the decision that we do not do so by rail? Rather, we wait for this analysis, and then we can make the following decisions. According to current information, I have some information, because the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is the principal ministry in this process, it can be concluded that there is no such indication that requires immediate change of direction. But, of course, we'll wait for the analysis. I'm not optimistic in a way. Finance ministers are always by their very nature those who try to hold on to taxpayers' money. I'd rather measure three times before cutting once. I have also said that it is certainly very important to analyse what is still the profitability of a facility, which serves one or the other step in this long series. And this sequence is really very long. We're not talking about decisions that come overnight. The decision-making process is very long and must take into account so many different variables. Surely the information we have now is quite different from what was five years ago. And let's be honest, I guess in three or four years, the situation will be quite different again than it is now. But when you make decisions, you must base yourself on the best knowledge you have at the moment, and also on some of the things you expect to be in the future. I am not an incorrigible optimist, I am looking at the context that is today, and I am also definitely monitoring the cost-benefit analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U175	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. You said there would be no additional costs for the state budget in the future. Unfortunately, life shows something else: Estonian Railway wants about 20 million each year. What is the basis for the belief that this railroad will feed itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U177	This railway is expected to be covered by passenger and freight charges. This has been done and has led to analyses.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U178	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U179	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I have to say, there's no way you can be satisfied with the way you talk about numbers. These projected quantities of goods and the number of people you have mentioned have been so convincingly overturned that they cannot be taken seriously. You said that infrastructure maintenance costs would amount to a maximum of 10 million. The same number has been mentioned by Prime Minister Ratas and several others. I've been trying to figure out what's in that $10 million. Can you explain it to me? This is less than the current maintenance cost of Estonian railway infrastructure per kilometre. How can a faster two-track railway be cheaper to support than the current railway? Are there really trains in this amount that we need to start leasing separately, just as we lease south-west railway trains, as well as the electricity costs and all maintenance costs for these trains? Not according to my understanding. What's in that $10 million? How can that amount be so small?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U180	Thank you. These amounts have been accurately reported by the Ministry of Project Leader, or Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, by type of cost, taking into account all types of under-costs. If you are interested, we will be able to submit these figures in writing to you in a more specific way, in order not to remain general. Of course, I will pass them on to you, or rather ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure to do so, so that you can have an accurate view of how this amount has developed and of the concrete assumptions that revenue will also be generated.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U181	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U182	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You've been asked a lot about the costs involved. Personally, I have said this before and I am also saying today that I believe that this railway should have gone through Tartu. I want to ask you something like that. You said earlier in your speech that you and the officials at the Ministry of Finance planned everything very long in advance. Has it been taken into account that a parallel plan is being implemented? I am wondering whether Tallinn was Tartu-Riga invested enough to make the connections between these cities fast. Does the entire Rail Baltic project not, financially speaking, eat the second development that is actually allowed out?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U183	Thank you. These are two different projects. No other specific plan will be funded with CEF money. The question is what are the political priorities for using Estonian taxpayers' money, whether to target it in one place, in another place or in a third place. I can say that our priorities will certainly not change over time. Priorities will continue to be those agreed in the past. These projects do not compete with each other. In essence, this little more than EUR 1 billion of European Union money cannot be used to implement any other project. You ask if the route could have gone through Tartu. As former mayor of Tartu, you think it should go through Tartu. I'm not going to discuss this with you. I'm certainly not the specialist who's gonna explain which corridor is better. There are other people for that. And specialists have come to the conclusion that the route through Pärnu is the most reasonable both in financial terms and in terms of temporal optimism.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U184	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U185	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As we have heard and are hearing now, all costs are limited to projections. These figures are written on the water. For us, of course, it is likely that, in order to better sell the project, attempts have been made to present these figures smaller than they will actually be. Here's my question. Do you not think that Prime Minister Ratas, who signed the agreement with the Prime Ministers of the other Baltic States at the end of January, has not acted in a legitimate way by assuming obligations for the state, which maybe Parliament will not give its consent to, and the fulfilment of which may be beyond Estonia's control?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U186	Thank you. I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U187	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U188	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! I have this question: what kind of revenue is there for Estonian entrepreneurs in connection with railway construction? Indeed, a number of companies said that they had the initial hope of getting a job in the pipeline through procurement. Now, however, the problem has arisen, which is confirmed by Eesti Pank. In fact, we do not have enough hands to build a railroad, and that means we have to bring in migrant workers. After all, the income from this is not left in Estonia, but goes outside. What are your calculations and forecasts in this regard? How often do you come into contact with entrepreneurs and talk about this subject, and what are their feedback and messages to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U189	Thank you, good question! I really did not point out today that the real story of this railroad is being built with an additional EUR 1 billion from the European Union. It's the order of magnitude, 80-85% of 1.3 billion. A billion and a little bit. That's the sum that comes in here. Some of this money will also be used for payments to Estonian companies, whether by outsourcing or by main job It goes by phase: the first was the planning phase, then it must be the design phase, the land purchase phase, and finally the construction procurement phase. In 2019 there should be a time when construction procurement is actually carried out. And if I'm not mistaken, in 2020, real construction should begin. Given the size of the works, I believe that all Estonian construction companies will get the job. I suppose that's natural. Rather, as you rightly pointed out, we are short of a working hand to carry out such an undertaking. In general, however, I imagine that very many Estonian entrepreneurs and not just builders will be part of this process. Somewhere these people have to stay here, somewhere these people have to eat every day, etc. In fact, all of this will certainly bring a lot of money to the Estonian economy. I really didn't come up with the subject before, it was about the logic of the path. But your question is justified. This undertaking will certainly allow Estonia to produce added value.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U190	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U191	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I heard that when a colleague asked what your belief in the profitability of this railroad was based on, you referred to the soon to be published feasibility study as if someone knew the result in advance. Maybe he does. I am surprised, however, that if it is so easy to make such a railway profitable, why is our current railroad at a loss? Why doesn't the government make it profitable with a magic wand? Instead, I would like to ask why we are building the 19th century railroad, when trains are being built more and more quickly in Africa, Russia, India, China and everywhere. In ten years' time, we may regret and start rebuilding again because the facility has expired.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U192	Thank you. First of all, as an introduction: no, our decisions are not based on a future study. As I mentioned earlier in the introduction, in 2011 AECOM carried out a study on this subject, which has been partially updated in 2015. But, yeah, there's an additional study going on. At the same time, studies to date are fully competent. So much for an introduction. With regard to whether the speed of trains should be increased further, you must, at the heart of the matter, decide which position you want to represent: either that we should create the possibility of moving even faster from point A to point B on the railways, or that taxpayers' money is being diverted too much to one or another specific project. The faster we get from point A to point B, the more money it costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U193	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U194	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I am interested in the extent to which the state currently subsidises the cost of tickets on the railroad, how much passengers are expected to be on Rail Baltic and how much Rail Baltic tickets will be subsidised by the state. Are these calculations or analyses done? What are the projections?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U195	I don't have all the data on the table, but I suggest you out of your mind that Elron's support is now in the order of EUR 3 million. Maybe we should make it clear if it's still $3 million. But I think you did not really want to ask how much support is, but wanted to know the position of the railway infrastructure manager. It was something you wanted to know, wasn't it? In order to achieve what economic results Estonian Railway, which is not the owner of trains, but the infrastructure manager. I believe you actually wanted to ask this question, not about subsidies. In this respect, I say that Estonian Railway has over time been a company that has paid dividends to the Estonian state. Now, unfortunately, the burden of transport has decreased and there is a situation where the Estonian state has to put money in there for its part. I can go over the dose, but I'm guessing it's 3 million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U196	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U197	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Has the amount that the investment in Rail Baltic is lacking in order to clean up and modernise the infrastructure of the current rail network been calculated? Can we even do this job? When we do, at what pace will this be done, and to what extent will maintenance of the existing rail network continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U198	Thank you. Basically, the answer is that these two things are not related to each other in the sense that maintaining one will cause problems to another. In itself, it is assumed that if Rail Baltic starts at one point, it will pay off itself. The charges paid for the carriage of both goods and passengers on these pairs of rails are sufficient. These things should not compete with each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U199	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U200	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! I would remind you that we are still asking questions, and do not answer just those you want to answer. Let me remind you of the question of Henn Põllea, on which you speculated, what he might have wanted to ask. His question was very clear. I understand your pleasure to respond at length to a subject that has not been asked about. The question of Kaskpeit was also clear. But again as a reminder: how much, according to current data, will it cost every year to maintain Rail Baltic and where will the money come from? What is the source of the cover? As we know, the state budget is always tight, we are short of money in defence, we are short of money to prevent peripheralisation. That money has to come up with something. Please answer how much it costs and what it costs! Where's the money missing?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U201	Thank you. The current forecast of maintenance costs after the launch of Rail Baltic is known. The new forecast is coming now in spring. As I said, we can now be based on the AECOM forecast, which sets out the costs and takes into account that the rail link must be maintained, that the railways must be taken care of both directly and indirectly. After all, trains are running on rails, plus the costs of maintaining and modernising the electrical and safety system. The intervals of these works vary over time, the costs are higher in some periods, the costs are lower in some periods. This is the average for many years. Experts from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications estimate that this will be in the order of EUR 10 million per year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U202	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Martin Helme, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U203	Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! Once again, what I have already said on the subject: completely unsatisfactory answers. The format of the inquiry is intended to enable the Minister to prepare himself thoroughly for a reply within 20 days, so that there are numbers, arguments and tables, or that the answers are at least plausible. The proposed EUR 10 million per year of maintenance costs is ridiculous. That's ridiculous! This is considerably lower than the cost of maintaining our railways now. Substantially smaller! But let's consider that Rail Baltic should be super fast, fully electrified, double-lined, and everything else. That's a ridiculous amount of money! It does not include the cost of obtaining trains, the cost of subsidising tickets, nor the cost of electricity that would be inevitable for these high-speed electric trains. There were repeated references to AECOM. I would point out that this study by AECOM has been carried out by several experts in Estonia, including logistics and rail experts, to the ground and to the dust. And the same AECOM has been convicted in Australia in a court of law for providing highly fictitious data when analysing one infrastructure investment project. The company went bankrupt on an investment based on these data, the investors sued AECOM for false statements, and the court found them guilty. The same AECOM has said that Rail Baltic will travel five million people every year, and these will be people whose tickets will be subsidised. Otherwise, the ticket would be so insanely expensive that no person would ride this train, but would choose a plane. However, we believe that EUR 10 million per year is the only running cost! At the same time, it's not even enough to mowing the lawn on this damn dam. To be honest, I do not understand how Estonian ministers can stand here in the remote and give us such crap, the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister and other ministers. It's just bullshit! As far as these numbers are concerned, we did not find out how large Estonia's own contribution is, what is the amount. Even in stage one, it's not known. Let us not talk about the next stage of European Union funding, which sounds like a fairy tale in some beautiful country. Even when we were talking about this first stage, we heard a little spin, it's a bet of 80 or 85%. If the cost of the project is 1 billion 300 million, the 5% difference is a very large amount of money. Which one is it, 80 or 85% at this stage? Is our share 300 million, 400 million, more or less? And what about it? Is it gonna make a tea dam for this, or is it just gonna make a stop for it? Or maybe the stops and bridges will be ready for this, but the railroad won't run down there yet? Or is it the only land you can get for this? Most countries are bought out from people who already knew where this route was going in 2007 and bought land in the middle of the swamps and forests. 20 days of sitting were given the Minister time to answer these questions, but we are asking for specific numbers again and again, because we are hearing some kind of complete bullshit against it. How do you think the public should approve this project? How can it be assumed that the Riigikogu could approve this project if we are talking about the amount of own contribution that is as large as our annual defence budget? And when we're talking about orders of magnitude, the final cost of this project is starting to approach the size of our entire state budget. But they come and talk about some kind of light blue dream made on a rainbow, five million passengers. This means that 14000 people a day travel between Tallinn and Kaunas. Get down on the ground, people! We are talking about 15 million tonnes when a few or three million tonnes are currently moving on Estonian railways a year. Henn Põllaas asked why the government has not used its magnificent magic wand and made the goods move along the current railroad. Nothing was answered about that. It was suggested that you make it clear whether you want a quick railroad or whether you want to save money. Maybe we want both, but we'd like some answers. Let us see what it has cost to build other railways in Europe. The average cost of building 100 km is 2.5 billion euros. This is when the KITT project is ready and all expenses are set. This amount is always three or four times the amount estimated at the beginning of the project. In this way, we may also think that the real cost is three or four times the forecast we were told about here today. The number of passengers is also estimated three, four or five times over. And I don't know whether to cry or laugh, because the more people on the train, the more the taxpayer subsidizes these tickets, perhaps the higher the current expenditure on the state budget. Maybe it's better if this railroad just stands there without any trains running on it. It should be possible to argue with an adult person. But you'll just be looked at blankly, smiled and told this AECOM fairy tale. This is not the way to rule the country, this is not the way to handle all our money. It is a disaster project that must be prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U204	No one wants to say anything to that anymore, nor does the Minister. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U205	Free mike. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U206	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, The largest group in the Riigikogu, as we can see, is the group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. We are, of course, very happy about that. But I came here to actually express my frustration with the fact that the minister left. It is already the second minister who has left the debate without having listened to the rounds of speech and has missed the opportunity to speak further or to object or whatever. If we put it together with the answers we hear from the ministers, then all of this together shows that the respect of ministers for the delegates is below any review. Parliament cannot accept this! We made a letter of formal notice to Prime Minister Ratas when Minister Ossinovski left the question before it ended. We are also making a letter to Prime Minister Ratas this time that Minister Sester has left and has shown disrespect to his employer, or Parliament. We urge the Prime Minister to have the opportunity to meet him tomorrow at Stenbock's house to pay his authority in his office! This type of behaviour is not appropriate for a country that is self-respecting; it resembles a banana republic. I hope all the ambassadors will agree with me and join this request. I think we should raise this issue even if there are more people in the Chamber so that it can reach everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, every last one of you, including those who are not here at the moment: you are not respected and cannot be accepted! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-13_U207	Monday's session is adjourned. Good night. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 19.35 p.m.
