ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 60 members of the Riigikogu are present in Question Time. Among the members of the government, the Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, and Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure participate in Question Time. As a result of the large number of questioners, I will be able to submit an additional question to each of the main issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U2	The first questioner is Martin Helme, the first answerer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U3	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! Last week, EAS decided not to recover money from Ermamaa, or Toomas Hendrik Ilves. It's a long story with a broad background. There is no doubt that this was a political decision. After all, it is clear that the EAS Council represents the owner and owner of the State, which in turn is represented by the Minister there. We will also understand that these are political choices when we compare the attitude of the previous minister with that of the current minister. If the previous minister clearly forced EAS to deal with this problem and take responsibility, then it was simply a matter of covering up taxpayers' money. My question to you, Prime Minister, is: did this Minister Urve Palo consult you before the decision of EAS?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good inquisitor, thank you for this question. First of all, I am convinced that both a member of the previous government and a member of the current government in a minister's personality have been seriously engaged in this matter and neither minister has wished to push this issue off the table with any light hand. This is a regrettable case. The question was whether there was an exchange of information between me and the Minister on this subject. The answer is yes, it was.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U5	Martin Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U6	Thank you. I'm glad to hear that. Were you also aware of Palo's wishes or recommendations to the Council? And did you express your opinion on this? As I said before, this is clearly a matter of political responsibility. If the minister made this decision without consulting the Prime Minister, then the responsibility is on him, but if he consulted you, then the responsibility is on the whole government, or on the prime minister. What's your position? Did you or did you not agree to push Erma County's debt on the taxpayers?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U7	Thank you. As you are certainly aware, EAS has clearly stated that these issues should have been resolved better at the time. Point 1. Item 2: The head of the EAS has lost his/her job and this has assumed responsibility at management level. Point 3: As far as I am aware, at least two external analyses or expert reports have been commissioned on the possible launch of legal proceedings. Both have come to the view that there is no particular perspective from the state's point of view. The EAS must always have certain resources in the budget and they do exist. I'd rather take a closer look at the future so that cases like this don't happen again. I think the state could boldly say at one point that the woman or man who takes office as President of the Republic has a place in the nature of the beautiful Estonia to go with his guests. There's no place like this right now. In the 1990s, there was this place in Paslepa, and it has now been sold. So I think that in the future, the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic could discuss whether something similar could be re-established for the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U8	Specific question, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U9	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr Prime Minister, you did not answer the previous question. From this we conclude that you have approved the decision of Urve Palo and are therefore co-responsible for the cost to the taxpayer. Estonia loves to call itself the rule of law. We can see that French President Sarkozy is currently being brought to justice for violating the rules on funding the election campaign. Former French President Chirac has also been tried. Don't you think it would be fair to offer President Ilves the opportunity to use the EUR 200000 just received from the Bertelsmann Foundation to repay the Estonian state and thus resolve the whole issue in an honest manner so that we can respect our former President?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U10	Thank you. You said that Estonia loves to call itself the rule of law. I will add one extension: Estonia loves to call itself the rule of law and is the rule of law. There is no doubt about that. If it is a question of whether this theoretical dispute at court level can be held with a legal person or a private person, then, as far as I am concerned, it can only be held with a legal person. That's point 1. Point 2 is that the principles of the rule of law are very sound and clear. They extend to all citizens of the country, no matter what their post or profession is. As I have already answered your groupmate's very good and substantive question, and I answered in essence, two very in-depth expert analyses have been carried out outside on what the country's perspective could be in the event of a possible court settlement. The possibility of a country winning this process has been assessed as very small.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U12	The next question is for Mr Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Health and Labour! I read in Pärnu Postimees that you also acknowledge the unequal situation between different counties in organising the procurement of the services of the Women's Support Centre. For example, if in the first tender Võru, Jõgeva and Valgamaa there was a similar annual limit (size 27000 euros), the annual budget of the suppliers of Jõgeva and Valgamaa is now almost half the annual budget of Jõgeva and Valgamaa. In Rapla and Järvamaa, too, the offer was finally significantly higher than the limit. Right there in Pärnu Postimees, you promise to change the system next year, because the budgets need to be harmonised. What plans do you have for funding the services of women's support centres next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U14	Thank you very much. As you well know, pursuant to the Victim Assistance Act adopted by the Riigikogu, the service is organised by the Social Insurance Board. The public has a lot of discussion about this issue, and it is well known that in the last weeks of last year, or at least in the last month, an unpleasant surprise struck the country: a large part of the service providers who, as partners in the country, have developed this important service, using both the resources of the Estonian state and the resources of the Kingdom of Norway, have closed their doors to the state and said that they do not want to continue working with the state and provide this essential service in Estonian society. This, of course, put us in an extremely difficult position, as it threatened the prospect that, after 1 January, in a few weeks, women's support centres would close their doors in several counties. Of course, according to the law, the Social Insurance Board had to do everything in its power to ensure that after 1 January the service would be available in all counties. This objective has been achieved. In all counties, this service is available and is the most important one. Unfortunately, the Social Insurance Board had to take steps to ensure this, which created certain inequalities between the various service providers. But the price had to be paid in the short term to motivate service providers to expand into the new county, and so they had to be offered a higher price. I have said that during this year we will review this system and make conditions more equal in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U15	Thank you. Liina Kersna, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U16	Unfortunately, I didn't get an answer to my question. But in the article already cited, you will admit that you will not change anything this year. I am impressed by your light-handed attitude towards inequality, after all, you have been the greatest advocate of equality. Does the government really not find additional resources for those counties in which budgets fell drastically compared to last year? We are not talking about hundreds of thousands of euros here, we are talking about tens of thousands of euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U17	Thank you very much. After all, the question is legal. If, according to the outcome of the procurement, the service providers have concluded contracts with the Social Insurance Board for the provision of one service to a certain extent and for a certain amount of money, it is clear that these contracts are binding on one party and on the other. As I said, the transposition of the process at the Social Insurance Board has unfortunately caused confusion precisely because, in my opinion, some asylums have already been said and once again, completely irresponsiblely abandoned the provision of this service at very short notice. It was probably expected that the country would behave differently than it did in the end. I think that this has damaged the credibility of the whole system, which is certainly bad. But there is also a good side and I certainly want to say a great deal of thanks to those service providers who were prepared to expand to other counties in such a short time. I have also visited one of these centres: in the town of Rapla, MTÜ Eluline took over this service in a very short time. Thank you very much to those and others who have taken over the service! The Social Insurance Board and the Ministry of Social Affairs are also very active in collecting feedback from all service providers on how the new service provided under the law in different counties is: whether the organisation needs to be changed in one way or the other. There have already been visits to a number of counties, I'm not going to read them to you right now. In the near future, we plan to go to all core centres, and then we will map out proposals on how to achieve a level playing field in the future. On the other hand, we will also see if there is anything better that can be done organisationally to ensure that aid is evenly good everywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U18	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. If you look at history, the services provided by the Women's Support Centre have evolved thanks to those NGOs that have soon completed several decades of this work. They have always improved the service and become very competent in this respect. Your response to our colleague will inevitably give me the impression that you are blaming these organisations for putting the country in a difficult position because you gave up competing. Perhaps it is the other way around: the state has put these organisations that are working with their hearts in a situation where they cannot do so because, in fact, these prices are not reasonable. But my question is this: maybe it would be wise to turn the services of women's shelters into a national service like the victim assistance service? In any case, we are in a situation where certain freedoms have been taken from the third sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U20	Thank you. My understanding is that a country's partnership with organisations in the third sector to provide essential services to society is a two-way partnership. This, of course, means, on the one hand, that we agree with these good, good and big-hearted people, that is what they really are all about, how can the state help them to provide this important assistance? However, on the other hand, these organisations take responsibility for ensuring that, in a situation where the state has delegated this work to them, they really ensure that this service is available to all victims. Of course, there are situations where one or the other NGO wishes to opt out of the service. They may have a different view of this help from that of the country. However, if it is only a few weeks in advance for such an important and important service that, as of 1 January, doors will be closed in eight counties, I do not think that this is in accordance with the rules of good partnership. After all, the problem was not primarily posed by the state. After all, on behalf of the state, the Social Insurance Board solved this issue, although there were indeed different organisational concerns, which Liina Kersna referred to and which we are trying to resolve during this year. But first and foremost, those in need of the service, women themselves, who were also affected by this media debate, felt that this assistance would no longer be provided in all counties. At the same time, good organisations and people who do this work with a great deal of heart still guarantee it. We are really trying to get the passions of the last month of last year to cool down, and we will come to a good cooperation in improving this service. There have also been suggestions that the Social Insurance Board should start providing this assistance in public order. Let us also discuss this issue. I would like to trust the NGOs and the third sector in itself and rather support such a good partnership.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U22	The next question is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U23	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! The statement by the Minister of Education and Research that Russian schools may be allowed to reduce the volume of education in Estonian upon application means, in my opinion, once again one of your leading government's visits to those partymates and potential voters who look back rather than want to look forward. Please explain, Prime Minister, how such exceptions will be allowed. How do they help your government in itself to achieve the very sympathetic goal that a student of Russian school should be able to speak the language at level C1 when he finishes school? Has the Minister of Education introduced his plan to you? Does this plan even exist, or do we do this before we think about local elections, and then we'll see how the shattered system becomes operational again?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U24	Thank you. Firstly, I certainly will not support the destruction of any system until there is a new system based on analysis. Elections are no context in this case. Secondly, the aim is not to reduce anything. The aim is one, and it is to improve the ability of young people to speak the Estonian language also through learning in Estonian. The main wish is for them to be more competitive on the Estonian labour market after graduating from high school or upper secondary school. We do not intend to amend the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. That's one. Secondly, when we consider the basic principles of the government union, we see that the national priority is to increase the quality of Estonian language learning in kindergarten, primary school, upper secondary school and vocational training centres, by ensuring the necessary teaching tools and further teacher training. In addition, we have promised that if there are differences in upper secondary schools, the language level must rise, as you said, from B2 to C1. I have been talking to the Minister of Education and Science about this. For now, I can assure you that there are no statements. If these applications are to be submitted, the PGS provides for a very specific form and specific requirements. The process begins when the school board first has to make its own proposal. After that, the council has to decide whether or not it supports it, and it has to decide in substance. A substantive decision cannot, for example, be based on the argument that there are not enough teachers at school. In my opinion, a decision of substance can be, for example, that the application is justified by the desire to bring Estonian language learning to a higher level.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U25	Andres Ammas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U26	Thank you, Prime Minister. I still disagree. I suspect that Russian youths do not really need such a possible exception. This is needed, for example, for the headmaster who gave short answers in Russian yesterday's "Actual Camera" and who takes his students to take pictures once a year in the background of the sickle and hammer. Rather, this change in the reform and roll-back of Russian schools can create more tension. Estonia has rightly been commended that the level of our schools is relatively uniform, whether in the country or in the city, but there is one exception. The results of the PISA test showed that students from Russian schools are about a year behind their Estonian peers. Why do you think that is? What are the main problems of Russian schools operating in Estonia? Is there any way your government is going to solve these problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U27	Thank you, too, for this question. It is true that if we go out on such exceptions at all, it requires that a very thorough analysis has been carried out at the Ministry of Education and Research. This analysis is not complete, work is ongoing. I think, good questioner, that your expert proposals are also very welcome. I'm going to say this wholeheartedly. How do we even make these exceptions? The state has foreseen in the coalition agreement that, in this case, additional funding will be provided for the school, and this, in my opinion, requires that there is a very specific, clear and binding agreement between the Ministry of Education and Research, the local government and the school. And, of course, after a certain period, a check will be made on how Estonian language learning has improved. If you ask what are the main concerns, why the level of Estonian in Russian-speaking schools is not as good as we want, then I think there is more than one reason. One is certainly the issue of funding and how to find good Estonian teachers in addition. The fact is that if the local government school needs additional teachers, the state does not say that it is allowed to allocate money for this purpose, but provides the necessary amount. Another concern is that good teaching materials are not enough. I think these are the two main problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U28	Jaak Madison, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U29	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! Your answers are beautifully round. We can all read coalition contracts. The Minister of Education and Research, Mailis Reps, made it very clear that he considered it possible to make an exception for the three schools in Tallinn. It represents one of the trends in a long series, including the relaxation of the State Legal Aid Act and your statement on citizenship policy, i.e. the possible introduction of a nullity option. This actually shows the government's priority: the preference of the Russian-speaking population for Estonians by allowing less use of the Estonian language. Please explain which one is right: are IRL representatives lying, saying that there will be no exceptions, or did the Minister of Education and Science lie when he said that it was possible to grant an exception to three schools and that they would not have to comply with this 60% requirement in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U30	I would like to thank you for your very specific and clear question. The right is for those who say that the government has set one of the goals of better connecting different Estonian language communities, as well as by developing closer cooperation between central government and local governments and better connecting transport networks between different regions. This is, in my opinion, the main message that we want to give. But as I confirmed to the previous questioner, no statements have been made. The government in office, of course, acts in accordance with the provisions of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. If such a statement is made by a school's board of trustees to the local government council, if the council considers it justified and accepts it, then of course the Government of the Republic will discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U32	The next question is for Mr Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. We know that the collective agreement negotiations with the medical staff ran into the sand. Now medical staff are preparing a serious step out in this regard. I have this question for you as Minister: is there any way that this nodule problem can be resolved calmly? And if it is, what is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U34	Thank you very much for your question. Indeed, the collective agreement negotiation process, which lasted almost a year, ended on the second day of February without results. There was no agreement between employers' representatives, i.e. the association of family doctors, the association of ambulances, the association of hospitals and representatives of contractors. There is so much of the collective agreement that, according to the collective agreement law, the parties, i.e. employers and employees, agree on wage and working conditions. Many discussions have been held and the Ministry of Social Affairs, together with the Health Insurance Fund, has been involved in the debate on the extent to which the salaries of health care workers could be paid out by the Health Insurance Fund in its financial capacity. It must be said that the wage increase proposed by the national conciliator was higher than the average wage increase in Estonia. Nurses and carers were asked to raise their wages by nearly 10%, and the employees, or medical staff, agreed in principle. At the same time, they raised the issue of long-term financing of health care, which I have also spoken about here before you and elsewhere. Estonian health care really needs extra money. The medical team considered that, in principle, this collective agreement offer is essentially appropriate for them, but they do not want to sign an agreement until the Government of the Republic has taken decisions on long-term healthcare financing. These are the decisions that we intend to take in preparing the country's budget strategy in April this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U35	Arno Bridge, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U36	Were there any obstacles other than this issue of long-term financing, or was it fundamental that did not allow an agreement to be reached?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U37	Medical representatives have said to me, both publicly and privately, that since it is most important for them that Estonian health care receive additional money, that long-term financial sustainability of health care is guaranteed, and we know that there are problems with it, they do not want to agree on their own wage increases before. First of all, it must be clear that the problem of long-term healthcare financing can be solved. Of course, in this context, issues concerning working conditions, rest periods, etc. were also addressed in the discussions between employers and employees, i.e. hospitals and medical practitioners. The main reason, however, is that the medical staff themselves have pointed out that they are waiting for the government's decisions on this issue. According to the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic, the Ministry will submit its proposals to the Cabinet of Government for discussion in March. The final finish of the proposals is currently being carried out by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs. After they have been discussed, the country's budget strategy can decide on a specific additional amount, as provided for by the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U38	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U39	Dear Minister, The budget of the Health Insurance Fund has been growing by its very nature, the social tax has actually been constantly increasing and the situation has been positive. Unfortunately, we know that the queues have grown and patients cannot get to the doctor. However, your government's steps put even more pressure on the health insurance fund in the run. For example, when calculating a pension, simply working becomes more important and social tax will no longer have to pay very much in the future. Isn't that like a double-edged sword? The same people whose interests you fight for will receive even less of this service in the future? What are the specific steps other than the government simply giving more money to the health insurance fund to improve access to medical care?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U40	Indeed, the budget of the Health Insurance Fund has recently increased significantly every year as a result of wage increases faster than projected. In 2017, for example, the Health Insurance Fund's budget is planned to be about 100 million larger than last year. On the other hand, if we look further ahead, as I have said many times on this board, our population is ageing, the number of people of working age is shrinking at a very high rate. Thus, the system of financing health care based solely on labour tax, or social tax, is unsustainable. Quite a number of countries in a similar situation have gradually moved towards sources of health insurance financing that are independent of labour taxes. It has also been my proposal that the state, for example, should pay the social security contributions for those old-age pensioners who do not work, in order to mitigate the impact of the loss of the working-age population. There were two more questions in the same question, and I cannot answer either of them, so I will only pick one. Of course, we are also working to improve the performance of the healthcare system in parallel with seeking additional money for health care. We have started and will continue to significantly strengthen primary health care this year as well. We are building health centres with the support of European Union funds, and 10 health centres should be completed this year. You will soon receive a bill that regulates the work of the family doctor's teams working at the health centre. The aim is to enable more services to be provided at the primary level and to reduce the number of specialist doctors. We are also trying to improve integration at different levels of the system, but these changes are long-term. As a general rule, there is no escape from the allocation of additional funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U42	Question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Less than six months ago, Nordea and DNB announced that they would merge the business activities of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania and create a new bank. It is noteworthy that the new bank's head office will come to Estonia. As a result of the activities of the current government, the team that is setting up this bank has started to find more and more that it is not worth making such a bank centre in Estonia. This is why we are losing a whole lot of high-value-added jobs and giving up on our neighbouring countries in a very competitive sector. Is the government going to give up this bank tax because we'd lose a pretty big investment?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U44	First of all, thank you for this serious question. I think it is worth opening the head offices of international companies in Estonia, whether they belong to Estonian or foreign owners. Some time ago, I met with the current new bank manager to discuss the matter. Of course, I also said that the Estonian state is very interested in having the regional headquarters of the Ühispank located in Tallinn. However, the government has indeed agreed to impose a bank fee, which is currently being prepared by the Ministry of Finance. That's what we were talking about. But, of course, there is the wish of the government, and I hope, also of the Riigikogu, that there should be as many head offices of multinational groups as possible in Estonia. I think it's worth coming here, there's a good tax environment, there's good people who can start working at head offices, and there's definitely a good infrastructure here. Not to mention that our geographical location is special.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U45	Maris Lauri, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U46	Thank you! It's nice to hear from yourself that you have such a desire. But for me, it's still a question of what you're doing for it. The reality is that one of the very good foreign investors considers our benefits to be location, business culture, investment-friendly taxation, e-Estonia and innovation. I would stress precisely this investment-friendly taxation, but the government has embarked on a reversal in this area. Countries usually try to maintain their strengths and deal with the weak. You're doing the opposite. In addition to bank tax, it is planned to limit lending between companies and support cheap production through labour taxation. Why are you weakening our strengths? Please deal with weaknesses!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U47	Thank you. In my opinion, the government has started to develop Estonia's strengths vigorously. Let us take just one example, which is the same investment programme. Estonia has shown itself to be progressive in Europe with its e-services. An annual contribution of 10 million is foreseen to be made to the further development of e-services. The Investment Programme provides for the completion of the so-called last mile in 2018 to 2019, and precisely with the aim of attracting more foreign investors to Estonia. The same investment programme provides for better infrastructure, whether by road or by trains running faster. This, of course, is not only the work of this government, but also the previous governments have given a clear signal that Rail Baltic is an important connection for us to Latvia, Lithuania and other Europe. With this effect, I hope that investments in this region will increase. This will help to better connect Finland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania to other Europe. These are some very few examples. But I think that everything related to zero bureaucracy related to the development of e-residency makes Estonia a more attractive country of residence, so foreign investors also come here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U48	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U49	Thank you. Prime Minister! As a former Minister for Rural Affairs, I am pleased that there will be extra money in agriculture, but the way in which this money comes is quite questionable. If the price of milk and pigmeat is on the rise, structural changes should be supported. You are certainly aware that we are planning to establish a new large dairy industry that would be exportable. We're producing twice as much milk. Would you be willing to allocate additional funds in the rural development plan instead of the so-called 'transition' support in the future, so that all investment projects can be implemented? There are now two large competing projects and it would be exceptionally foolish not to carry out one of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U50	Thank you for this question. Where do these resources come from? You know where they come from, they come from the labour taxes of Estonian residents. I think that you, too, who have been in office for a long time, have always stood for the good ideas that we can now put into practice. But to put ideas into practice, good teamwork and a strong desire to achieve results are often needed. Maybe it's not every time. Today we can safely say that if we look at this year's budget, top-up grants will be the maximum rate that has not been available for years. But I believe you do not argue with this and say that this is the right direction from the point of view of Estonian farmers. Support for crisis assistance at the maximum rate is also important. The government considers this to be a priority and found the money to do so. However, I would like to conclude my list with the aid for breeding, which is also very necessary in the agricultural sector. I recall that you, as Minister for Rural Affairs, did not oppose these things, but rather supported them in your words. Maybe the whole government was missing a little bit. The final part of your question was whether additional funding should be allocated to the agricultural sector in order to receive foreign investment here. I think we should definitely get these things on the table and get a good look at them. In general, of course, I support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U52	Asks Monika Haukanõmm, answers Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski. Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! We will continue our discussion on the collective agreement between health professionals and the sustainability of medicine. In the postman's article, you said that you had no understanding of the medical requirements, and if no agreement is reached, the sickness fund could move the money planned for the raise. In fact, everything the medics do is very clear. It is, of course, a desperate step for them to ensure that the government does something to ensure the sustainability of the health care system. This is a desperate step, because every day medical practitioners see the availability of treatment getting worse, medical care getting farther away, etc. They're actually pushing their plans and their desires into the background to put pressure on you. You have been Minister of Health since autumn 2015 and you have repeatedly promised that this plan, how health sustainability is ensured, will come before us. But it didn't come. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U54	Thank you very much. I understand the medical profession in general, and I understand their concerns. I have repeatedly said that we are on the same side of the front line with great concern about the long-term financing of healthcare; we do not have broad differences in this respect. My point was on the framework of the collective agreement. It is not always clear to everyone who can agree what and in what format and what cannot be agreed. The medical team wanted a clear response from me, among other things, on how many million extra euros the government will allocate in April. Unfortunately, according to the limits of my mandate, I could not give that answer, because according to the law, the Government of the Republic will decide by consensus in April when the country's budget strategy is put together. Of course, as many medical practitioners have said publicly, there is a rather extraordinary climate of distrust in the health sector. I can sense it 100%. Medical personnel say that in the last ten years, there has been no strategic decision in healthcare that the decisions that I have spoken about and which I have promised to make by this spring have been spoken about for the last ten years, but there are no solutions, even though they were needed the day before yesterday, as one medical officer said. In that sense, I understand their emotions. I have said that me and the entire current government cannot be held responsible for all the indecision that previous governments and government members have demonstrated. But I understand the atmosphere that has developed. Let us please take it easy, in March we will present our proposals to the government, and by April we will also take the necessary decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U55	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U56	Thank you for that answer. I guess the issue of healthcare funding is like a bomb on your leg and on the whole government's leg and hanging there pretty hard. If you look at the Health Insurance Fund's budget, for example, in 2015, we ended up with an 18 million minus, last year with a 25.5 million minus, even though 9 million were planned. This year, we are very optimistic and say that the budget may be less than 2 million. However, the issue of money is that we know: 93 million more budgets have been planned this year than last year, i.e. more money will be given all the time. But the problem is, in fact, that the number of treatments does not increase, but decreases. If we look at the explanatory memorandum from the Health Insurance Fund, it is very clear that we are trying to maintain access to treatment at the current level. At the same time, we have reached a situation where there is more or less the 2013 level. What can I do?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U57	Firstly, indeed, in recent years the number of treatment cases has decreased. This has been mostly reduced in inpatient specialist care. This is also due to changes in health management and is a longer-term trend since the Chairman of the Riigikogu was the Minister of Social Affairs. However, it has been born in recent years primarily because of budgetary constraints. It is clear that a certain limit has now come to light. In 2017, I repeat, the estimated number of treatment cases is higher than in 2016. This is due to the 10 million additional euro that the Government of the Republic found in the budget of this year in cooperation with the Riigikogu. Indeed, these 10 million were allocated to specialist medical care, a small part for biological treatment, but generally to increase the volume of cardiology and neurology inpatient therapy. Indeed, medical practitioners have said that the number of treatments has decreased. Reference is made to different reference bases. One thing is the comparison of the number of budgetary treatment cases and this figure is higher in 2017 than in 2016. But since medical personnel are allowed to work overtime in a reasonable way, as you yourself pointed out, hospitals are working more and paying more for it than is planned in the budget. The Health Insurance Fund also pays for this system. The actual minus of last year doesn't know whether to grieve or to rejoice about how to take it was in the order of EUR 30 million. To this extent, more medical attention was given to people. Probably more than planned in the budget this year. So it is not quite appropriate to compare the number of budgetary treatment cases. But the number of treatment cases is increasing this year, the budget concerned is higher than last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U58	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U59	Thank you. Dear Minister, If a member of the Riigikogu hears that in four months all the things that have been unfinished for ten years will be done, then his heart will certainly roar with joy. It's nice to meet people like that! I also welcome the fact that social tax has indeed been received very properly, these figures are quite impressive. But you didn't answer my last question. The situation is that the tax is well received and the envelope wages are low. The government is now making the tax system such that the various advantages are actually favouring the payment of lower wages. Aren't you afraid you're on a sword with two blades? Possible state budget resources will remain small, as the social tax will be reduced in the future and the same people, or patients, will suffer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U60	Thank you very much. I didn't promise to do a ten-year job in four months. I referred to the widespread belief among medical practitioners that certain important decisions have not been taken in ten years. One of these is the long-term financing of health care. Indeed, there is an agreement between the Government of the Republic and my promise that by April this issue will be resolved. As regards your claim that the steps of the new government will reduce the payment of official salaries, I cannot agree with you in any way. Of course, political rhetoric is a good argument, but let's look at the other side. When we talk about pension reform, in 2000, when the current system was introduced, it was probably not possible to foresee that Estonia would become one of the countries with the greatest pay differences in Europe. We have very large pay differences and there is a situation where the tax burden on people earning average wages is very high. The burden of labour taxes has so far been, preferably in favour of the higher-wage earners. Any decrease in nominal rates, such as the reduction in the nominal rate of income tax, will improve the lives of people with higher wages and the lives of people with much less pay. And the same high wage inequality is growing beyond the great inequality of pensions. This is a sober and research-based analysis, which shows that if we do not change this system or equalise the payment of pensions in the first pillar, we will have to start paying income support to many pensioners in a couple of thirty years' time. They do not live with their pension because their salaries have been too low. This has been the structure of the Estonian economy. Unfortunately, the state must take socially responsible steps so that people do not have to apply for income support when they are elderly, but can take on this substitute income.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U61	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U62	Answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, asks Jaak Madison. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U63	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! It is no secret that the new Prime Minister's party is very popular among the Russian-speaking community living in Estonia. According to surveys, 80% of the Russian-speaking people living in Estonia choose the Centre Party. It is no secret that a very large part of these people live in the Russian media field, or consumes information from Russia. And it is also no secret that the party of the Prime Minister has signed a protocol of cooperation with the party of Unique Russia. At the same time, we have consistently had a common foreign policy in recent governments. What is the foreign policy of the government led by the Centre Party, in particular, towards Russia? So far, it has not overlapd with the views and interests of the Russian-speaking community living in Estonia. How do you resolve this conflict in foreign policy between the interests of your electorate and the interests of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U64	Thank you for that question. Well, what's to keep secret, isn't all the finish results will be revealed in the election. But, of course, ratings are being made and, if I am not mistaken, in the last rating, the support of the Centre Party over Estonia was 31%, which was the largest. Of course, I am grateful to the supporters of our party, and I thank them for that. And I thank the supporters of both the Social Democratic Party and the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union for supporting the government union. So there's no secret. But that's why you can't just live by the rating. In my opinion, the main tasks of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia and other members of the government and members of the Riigikogu are to ensure as stable a development as possible in their home country. I am thinking of the economy, the living environment and also the shopping cart per capita. This is one of the most important tasks. When it comes to foreign policy, it is very important that Estonia has kept its foreign policy and defence policy in line for the last 25 years and now, in fact, for even longer. It has been a consensual policy. The current government will continue on this course in any case, but would like to contribute more. As I have said, we want to contribute more to the External Action Service so that the External Action Service is more active in economic terms. We will increase defence costs through a defence investment programme. These are certainly the directions that the government can do more in defence and foreign policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U65	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U66	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! Perhaps you could explain in more detail whether the new foreign policy direction of the new government was reflected in the meeting of the Baltic Prime Ministers on 9 December, where a joint statement was adopted and where the Prime Minister of Estonia had asked several times to soften the positions concerning Russian policy in Ukraine, Crimea and Syria. Is it going to be common in Estonia's new foreign policy to be softer in our positions than in Latvia and Lithuania and to try to be more neutral or even more pro-Russian?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U67	Thank you. I'm really sorry to start the answer like this, but it's slander. The Prime Minister of Estonia did not make any proposals to make this declaration of the three Baltic Prime Ministers even a grammes lighter or softer. That's a clear slander. On the contrary, it was my interest to mark these places. When it comes to Estonia's foreign policy and defence policy, our main orientations are strong membership in the European Union, strong membership in NATO's contribution to it, further development of these alliances. This direction is constant. The latest events in Eastern Ukraine, of course, also concern me and the entire government. Estonia must act even more actively here. But yesterday, Estonia allocated a little less than half a million euros of humanitarian aid to this region, namely EUR 400000. I had the opportunity to meet with the President of Ukraine a week ago and I stressed there that we are still of the opinion that the territorial integrity of the Ukrainian state must be recognised. In the previous composition, 62 MPs initiated draft Riigikogu statement 608 "In support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity', which was adopted on 5 March. It was supported by 75 members of the Riigikogu. This position has been held by Estonia as long as I have been in politics, and it remains.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U68	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U69	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! I am now living in the knowledge that you lied to Jaak Madison who asked the previous question. This concerned the meeting of the Baltic Prime Ministers. I have been assured from Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania that the Estonian Government has acted very strangely when trying to dilute the resolution on Russia. It's never been before. But this has been said in three Baltic states, and I also asked about it in my written question. As long as I have not received your answer, and this answer should not be a formal adviser's, but should be your personal confirmation, I would argue that you are lying. Are you satisfied with this situation, or are you going to present me with materials that would disprove my knowledge that you diluted the Russian resolution in paragraphs concerning Ukraine and Syria?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U70	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. No, I haven't lied one gram on these issues either. I mean, you actually rushed ahead to the next question of Question Time, which you have also asked. Maris Lauri, a respected member of the Riigikogu, has just asked about foreign investments. The fact that we are blowing up internal charges that are not true and damage Estonia's reputation in an international context certainly does not have a good effect on attracting foreign investment here. Once again, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia has not softened this declaration in December 2016 and has not proposed it. It didn't exist. As you yourself know as an experienced politician, such declarations are prepared at institutional level for a month, a month and a half or two. In the specific case, this time was, as far as I know, up to two months and a half, so the preparations actually started during the previous government. Diplomatic consultations on this matter lasted several weeks, if not several months, before the document was signed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U71	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U72	Now Jürgen Ligi will be able to ask another question and the Prime Minister will also be able to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U73	Thank you. Prime Minister! I'm asking about the same Baltic meeting. Don't talk to me about Maris Lauri, don't tell me about the External Action Service. Tell me if you are calm in a situation where both Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are saying that you have diluted the resolution on Russia, but you will not show me the papers that contradict this information in answer. I have sent you a written question which you have not answered by the deadline with papers confirming your words that you have strengthened the message of this resolution. This letter, these documents I didn't get.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U74	Thank you. Honourable member of the Riigikogu, I have answered you. Point 1. Point 2: I assure you, as one minute ago, that in these matters I have not lied. I have not softened the declaration. If you have specific facts, bring them out! Name where Jüri Ratas has proposed to amend one or three sentences. No, it wasn't. It is important for Estonia to stand up for the territorial integrity of Ukraine in the European Union and NATO together with its partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U75	Question time's over. Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski and Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U76	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Marko Mihkelson, please! You'll have to come to the speaker's desk for that, Mr. People's Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U77	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy to give the Riigikogu to the proceedings of the Riigikogu on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to amend the decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Estonian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean Union'.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U78	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, on behalf of the Free Party Group, I am handing over a draft law called 'Proposal for Local Democracy'. For explanation. We all know that, for the last 14 years, political parties have obviously been overfunded in Estonia. This is particularly recognised by the fact that much of the money given to political parties is being used badly and wastefully. Obviously everyone remembers examples of this in the last elections in 2015, which brought us here. Common sense says that it does not make sense to give money to those who waste money, but it makes perfect sense to have some money taken away and given where it is more useful. The political idea of the draft that we have tabled is that about a quarter of the amount of money that is currently being given to political parties per year maybe even be taken away if you agree to it and given to the lists and candidates operating in the context of the democracy of the local government to receive operating grants. This is also, in our view, particularly important because this year the municipal elections will be held very soon, the results of which will be determined last year by the various aspects of the rubber-stamped administrative reform law in this Chamber, which have been less discussed. Next to the main objective is...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U80	Thank you. There's no need to explain the whole bill. Time's up, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U81	Sorry, I'm late to watch the clock, but I'm still handing over the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U82	Thank you. I have adopted two drafts, which come under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. One specification of the agenda and one notification. On item 13, 357 of the Social Committee, the Committee on Social Affairs has decided that the rapporteur of the committee is Mr Kütt, President of the committee. And here's the message. Today at 15.00 Erki Savisaar is waiting at the café of the Riigikogu for the people who wish to set up an Estonian-Lebanon support group together. Incoming check, please! 86 members of the Riigikogu are in plenary session. The first item on the agenda is the Act on Insurance Activities initiated by the Government of the Republic... Andres Herkel, please! What's this about?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A procedural question. I began to notice the formation of this group of friends during the plenary session of the Riigikogu. The session of the Riigikogu is expected to take place at 3 p.m. These groups have usually been formed outside the working hours of the Riigikogu, after the hearing. Is it quite customary and legitimate that such events take place during a sitting of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U84	Thank you for your question. It's not customary. It would make much more sense to do so after the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U85	But now we move on to the agenda: the third reading of the draft law amending the Act on Insurance Activities initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Jaak Madison has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U86	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Perhaps Erki Savisaar, the convener of this group, could change the time and arrange a meeting after the end of the sitting?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U87	Ask Erki Savisaar, please! Can we now go to the third reading of the Act amending the Law on Insurance Activities? Thank you! Honourable Riigikogu plenary, I will open negotiations. There is no wish for negotiations, we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft act 275 amending the Act on Insurance Activities initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Please take a stand and vote. There were 86 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft, no one opposed, one was impartial. The Act amending the Act on Insurance Activities and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U88	Our next item is the third reading of the draft Emergency Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. On a proposal from the Commission, we will have a final vote. Can I go to the final vote? Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft emergency law 205 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 86 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft 205, 1 was impartial, no one opposed. The emergency law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U89	The following is the draft law amending the Act on Unemployment Insurance initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. I'm opening negotiations. There are no requests, on a proposal from the Commission, we are taking a final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Act on Unemployment Insurance initiated by the Social Affairs Committee 292. Please take a stand and vote. There were 88 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the bill 292 and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U90	Our next item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Law on the Organisation of Health Services initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Dmitri Dmitriev on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In a report published at the end of last year by the National Audit Office 'The state's activities in maintaining and treating children', Auditor General Alar Karis began his appeal with the message that the infinitely repeated slogan 'Children are our future! ' unlike most slogans, there really is content. In particular, the responsibility in this sentence lies in the responsibility of both parents and the state to maintain the health of children and to stand up for their well-being. Diseases and other health problems that have not been detected at the right time and have not been cured will be passed on to the future and will lead to higher medical costs. Children's health problems are also reflected later in the years of life and work lost in the working-age population and in the deterioration of quality of life. This is why maintaining the health of children and shaping a healthy lifestyle is a key issue in improving the capacity of our workforce and improving the well-being of our people. The Central Party Group agrees with the Auditor General and will certainly support the draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act. The Centre Party Group has also previously drawn attention to the need to monitor children's health from the moment they were born. In particular, we have proposed to link national parental benefits to the obligation to go to medical check-ups with the child. The problem with the Estonian Health Check system is that family doctors are obliged to monitor children, but parents are not obliged to bring children to the doctor. The system is built solely on parental responsibility. With the current amendment, all children will automatically receive a family doctor, but this will not be linked to the payment of parental benefit. The main objectives of this draft are to ensure equal health protection for children by automatically registering all children on the list of family doctors. It is vital that children in need are noticed as soon as possible. So far, children have been registered on the list of family doctors only on the basis of a written declaration from the parent, and it has therefore occurred that children whose parents have not made such a statement have not been supervised by the family doctor. In a situation where we are talking about constant negative demographic trends and their impact on society, the draft certainly offers one step in the direction of better protection of our most important resource - the Estonian human resource. In the Committee on Social Affairs, we had full agreement on this draft, supported by representatives of both the coalition and the opposition. I very much hope that there will be such a consensus in this Chamber today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U92	Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U93	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, In a few minutes, we will be voting on a bill that proposes a number of important changes. They solve the problem that has so far been of great concern to the social and child protection workers, medical workers and child protection organisations of the municipality. According to the bill, a situation where we have nearly 700 children under the age of 3 who are not on the list of any family doctors would be eliminated. Every child counts, every child is worth gold to us, and it is essential that both family doctors and child welfare workers notice problems early. Today's third-reading draft amends the procedure for assigning newborn children to a family doctor and ensures that each newborn born in Estonia is automatically registered on the list of her mother's family doctor. The proposal strengthens child protection and aims at preventing and reducing social and health risks for children and young people. It is important to emphasise prevention and risk reduction here. So far, little attention has been paid to the amendment proposed in this same bill, which gives students who have completed the fourth course of medical training, who work as a doctor's assistant, access to the health information system. This will allow medical students to see important patient health information, including previous diseases and allergies, and will give the student who assists the doctor the opportunity to conduct a more thorough initial examination and to prepare the necessary documentation for the doctor. From the patient's point of view, the change will also speed up the process of getting help, as the assistant doctors will be able to prepare the patient's treatment for the supervising doctor in advance. All these amendments shall enter into force on 1 January 2017. The Social Democrats support the draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act initiated by the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, and invite other good colleagues to vote in favour of it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U94	There is no further wish for negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 318 amending the Act on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There were 79 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 318, no one opposed and 2 abstentions. The Act amending the Health Services Organisation Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U95	The next item is the development plan for adaptation to climate change for the period up to 2030 and its procedure is based on § 156 of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! First, the presentation by Minister for the Environment Marko Pomerants is 20 minutes, then by member Valeri Korb of the Committee on the Environment, for up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask a question to either of the rapporteurs. This will be followed by negotiations. The Riigikogu will not take a decision to close the discussion. Mr. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U96	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. His President! I will introduce you to the 2030 Agenda for Adaptation to Climate Change. You have been presented with the document 'Climate Change Adaptation Development Plan 2030' and the accompanying draft implementation plan, which will provide guidelines on how to better deal with climate change in Estonia. By adapting to the effects of climate change, we understand climate change risk mitigation and the framework for action to increase the preparedness and resilience of both society and ecosystems to climate change. Although the effects of climate change in Estonia are not as extreme as in many other countries of the world, according to climate scenarios Estonia will have a significant increase in floods and periods of drought in the summer by 2100, shore erosion and shore installations will be threatened and rising storm damage will increase. Periods of ice and snow cover and water levels of seawater and inland waters are also affected. However, we already feel the effects of climate change. During the past ten years, we have seen an increase in the flood rates of cities located in coastal areas and along inland waterways, as well as an increase in storm winds and extreme rainfall in Pärnu, Haapsalu, Tallinn and Tartu. While Estonia has so far been mainly concerned with the elimination of the effects of extreme weather conditions, this future development plan will enable the risks of climate change to be better anticipated and taken into account. Why do we need a climate change adaptation agenda? In particular, it is still because climate scenarios and projections suggest that climate change is changing. Knowing the direction in time and spatial change of factors affecting the climate, we can be prepared for this. Given that climate change has an impact on the economy, the environment and society as a whole, it is certainly cheaper to act at present by implementing preventive measures to reduce the negative impacts of climate change, and much more reasonable than later to eliminate the damage caused by floods or storms. We can also consider the positive effects of climate change, such as the growth of crop yields and summer tourism and the potential for renewable energy, as a competitive advantage for the Estonian state. The National Climate Change Adaptation Agenda is also a prerequisite for meeting the requirements for EU Structural Funds support. Linking all relevant areas and administrative levels to climate change adaptation measures and establishing a jointly agreed national strategic framework will also ensure that we will continue to be able to receive international investment and support in areas affected by climate change. National climate change adaptation strategies and action plans already exist or are being prepared in most EU Member States. In Estonia, the development of the National Climate Change Adaptation Development Plan was prepared in 2013 and the draft plan together with the implementation plan was completed in summer 2016. The strategic objective of the climate change adaptation development plan is to increase the readiness and capacity of the Estonian state to cope with the impact of climate change at regional and local levels. As part of the development plan, in-depth scientific research has identified the most vulnerable areas to climate change: health and survival capacity, land use and planning, natural environment, economy including a separate bioeconomy, society awareness, infrastructure and buildings, energy and security of energy supply. The effects of climate change in these areas will be analysed. Specific actions have been put in place to improve preparedness and capacity to adapt to the impacts of climate change. The total cost of implementing the climate change adaptation agenda up to 2030 is estimated at EUR 43 million. The development plan will be implemented on the basis of an implementation plan with a cost of €6.7 million over the 20172020 period, half of which will be the national budget and half will be the external resources of the other half. In addition to the Ministry of the Environment, other ministries and other bodies will contribute to the activities and actions of this implementation plan. Implementation of the Climate Change Adaptation Development Plan is organised by the Ministry of the Environment and every year from 2018 the Government of the Republic will be presented with an overview of the implementation of the plan and the achievement of the objectives, i.e. the effectiveness of the measures. Where appropriate, proposals shall be made to supplement and otherwise amend the development plan. In summary, I note that timely adaptation to climate change will significantly reduce financial and societal risks and will help to make long-term, scientifically sound climate risk decisions instead of short-term decisions made in ignorance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U97	Questions for the waitress. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned the financial resources planned for the years 2017 to 2030. There are really tables here, but what is the base material used for years or for sub-objectives? Why don't you explain the financial part of the implementation plan a little bit more?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U99	Thanks! I don't have much to add here. These amounts have been received, first and foremost, on a proposal from the ministries concerned. In sum, we have made it feasible for the country's budgetary strategy to come together on a yearly basis. I think that if you process the state budget here every year, you can also ask the Minister of Finance how it is about adapting to climate change.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U100	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U101	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Ticks are getting worse and worse and all that stuff. But the worst thing that people's lives are about to be haunted is summer heat waves, as I read here. In the period 2030/2050, this leads to 506 over-deaths in a good scenario and 679 in a worse scenario. But you have pointed out that 13 years later, you only want to prevent 30 heat deaths. Why such a small plan? You only want to prevent 5% of "excess death" due to a heat wave.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U102	Thanks! The government of the Republic of Estonia is almighty, but it cannot solve all the problems that nature puts before us, with the help of human power and money. The people who have made this forecast in the area of health have taken a realistic approach. We must consider that we cannot resist nature in all our positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U103	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Reading this implementation plan and looking at all these things, it seems that all of this exists elsewhere in development plans and implementation strategies. Trying to figure out where all this money comes from, I got 15 of them. My question is whether this development plan was needed in addition. Looks like all these things are already on the list somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U105	Thanks! It is certainly the first time that a longer forecast has been made for a place as far ahead as possible until the end of the century. It's a first. That's one. Secondly, it is very reasonable to take into account all the existing development plans, and it must be policy coherence. Thirdly, you, as a vigilante or simply a citizen, now have at its disposal a document stating everything that lies ahead in this area. Next week, you will be able to see another document on the foundations of our climate policy until the middle of the century. And I dare give you another reason, actually, I've already mentioned it. Those countries that have been able to look at climate change in good time and are ready to adopt measures to adapt to it can be certain that the European Union taxpayer will also support these investments in various areas, as we have foreseen the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U106	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. As a person living on the island, I am interested in the role of the Baltic Sea in this development plan. Some of the objectives that are set out here support an action plan called the HELCOM Baltic Sea Action Plan. According to this, by 2021, the environmental status of the Baltic Sea must be good, and any harmful human activity must have ended, etc. Perhaps you can make an assessment of whether this will be achieved by 2021. This would also support the implementation of this development plan. What's the status? I'm grateful if you can make an assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U108	Thanks! I dare to predict that by 2021 there will be plenty of concerns, including environmental ones. This is for the simple reason that every minister, after being appointed, has, as you may have expected, that the country has worked for a long time before then and that everything is in order. But you see, nobody's bored, everyone's got work to do. But as an islander, you must be at the mercy of the same dangers as I am in Rakvere as a continental man. If it's hot, it's hot in Kuressaare and Rakvere. And if I live in the north of Rakvere today and the sick house is in the south, maybe in my old age I wonder if I should move somewhere in the south of Rakvere to be closer to help.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U109	Honourable Chairman! Good minister! Like the whole environment, climate change affects all the world, all the countries, all the people of Estonia. You did talk about it a little bit, but maybe you'll specify the coordination between different ministries and other agencies, especially between local authorities. How do local authorities assume their tasks from this, and how is this work guaranteed by resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U110	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U111	Thanks! As I said, the overall coordinator of the implementation of this development plan is the Ministry of the Environment. Activities concerning local governments are primarily related to land use by one of the average future Estonian municipalities. In this sense, an additional resource is not much needed if, when planning, it is a process that needs to be done, whether the climate is changing or not, these additional aspects are simply taken into account. It is very difficult to point out here any extra cost to local governments. Surely, this effect can be seen, for example, in the construction of rainwater sewers. For example, the city of Tallinn, and not a finger at all, can be pointed out: when it comes to very large asphalt surfaces and very much precipitation in the future, this water will not disappear from sight at the same time. Therefore, additional costs will certainly come. We must, as we have seen so far, what can be done by the municipality itself and what can be done in cooperation with the state if we either have the European Union's money to use or our national environmental resources. This will continue to be the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U112	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U113	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! I was curious about the money, too. A brief experience as a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs says that at least two of the last national budgets have not been unduly disturbed by previously adopted development plans and strategies. It is still the coalition agreement and political parties' promises that must be implemented. Is the 43 million we are aiming for, or is it rather a commitment to our partners, a commitment to the European Union, which we hope to receive some money from there? How exactly does this work?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U114	Thanks! Using 43 million for this purpose by 2030 could be a duty to our own citizens. The aim is to have as good a living environment as possible in 20 years' time, as little daily worries as possible or problems in the work of some kind of communication because the situation in nature has changed. If there's a reason to do this, it's us Estonians.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U115	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U116	Good President! Good minister! Among other things, you plan to increase your rescue capabilities and buy emergency equipment. What is the certainty that storm winds are really coming to us and massive floods are starting and people are falling into heat strokes? What's the odds? Secondly, what are the means of rescue that will be provided, as the development plan says?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U117	Thanks! I do not have with me the sectoral analyses that have been carried out on the possible effects of climate change. These probabilities are expressed as a percentage in several documents. But the preparedness of the rescue area also means, for example, the ability to provide prior information. For example, in the area of health care, it is certainly important how quickly an ambulance can respond when someone makes a challenge, but the second part of this is pre-notification and readiness not to go outside, for example, if it could have bad consequences.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U118	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U119	Thank you! Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I want to ask you a little more broadly, philosophically about this whole subject. In general, climate warming is a generally accepted fact that has been proven in many studies. At the same time, there are very many advocates of alternative theories, some of them have even been elected president of a large country, claiming that this is all bullshit, there is no warming, that in reality, man does not affect the warming of the climate at all, that it is a fiction. Nature just has its own cycles. You too know these theories very well, both in Estonia and elsewhere. What do you still say to those people who claim that the impact of human activity in the process is very small, that it is simply the cyclicality of nature, that we are actually going to the ice age, only in the meantime is a temporary period of warming?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U120	There's an old traditional answer to that. Yes, the ice age can come, for example, in 400,000 years. That's my random number. But what matters is what happens to us even in our own lifetime. That's what we're supposed to do. I'm very interested in the next 30 years, I'm an old person at the end of this period. Regardless of how much natural processes play and how much human activity plays, we need to be prepared for change. It's in our interest. And as proof, it is a clear fact that the world's average temperature is on the rise, unfortunately in Europe faster than in the world as an average. We would be wise to draw conclusions from this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U121	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U122	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Dealing with climate change has not been too popular politically in our region. And it is clear that the impact of these activities is very long-term and that electoral cycles do not, in most cases, favour dealing with such issues. However, both the OECD and the IMF have recently said that they consider the impact of climate change to be the most important issues and challenges of this century at all. I am simply asking for your assessment of how we have this perception here in Estonia. Has the understanding that this is an important issue increased? How well do we understand the importance of climate change?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U123	Thanks! Regardless of whether a person understands or thinks of the importance of the whole subject, he senses the problem when he has experienced a heat wave or when he has been sitting in a tunnel to his neck during the rain of a car. Then he'll remember the subject. But as far as general awareness is concerned, I think that awareness has increased since the preparation and adoption of the Paris Agreement, as well as the legal steps taken by the Estonian state itself. We have certainly contributed to this in the Ministry of the Environment. That's one side. The other half is that, in addition to the Ministry of the Environment, other environmental organisations, I dare to consider the Ministry of the Environment to be an environmental organisation, the basic one. At all meetings where, for example, the future of energy is being discussed, the question is, how and what are we really doing to... I think the situation has improved in the last two years. This issue has come to stay, not to be a moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U124	Thank you, Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. The rapporteur for the Environment Committee on this item is Valeri Korb. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U125	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Good chairman of the board! The development plan for adaptation to climate change, together with the implementation plan, was submitted to the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu for inspection and opinion. This development plan was on the agenda of the Environment Committee on 23 January 2017. Minister Marko Pomerants, Head of Climate and Radiation Department Evelyn Müürsepp and Adviser to the Climate and External Relations Unit Mart Raamat took part in the meeting as representatives of the Ministry of the Environment. What about the hearing? It wasn't a long discussion, but some things were still negotiated. The Minister noted that this document was needed to deal with climate change. Estonian scientists have made a climate forecast until the end of the century, based on the situation that mitigation measures would not be implemented. In this case, the annual average temperature would increase by more than 4 degrees, the winter season would disappear, precipitation and wind speed would increase. Climate change is beginning to affect people's health, and this is what the Minister was already talking about, saving capacity, land use and planning for the economy, energy and the natural environment. Mrs Müürsepp added that while the draft of the fundamentals of climate policy rather addresses mitigating measures, the development plan explains the risks of climate change and provides guidance on how to deal with them. Four large groups of researchers and the Environment Agency have assisted in preparing the documents. The climate change adaptation agenda will, as has already been said, cost around EUR 30 million, half of which will come from the Structural Funds. Nevertheless, a development plan is necessary. In addition, the European Commission and scientists are convinced that if adaptation to climate change starts now, it will also have to be cheaper and cheaper for human health. Later, we will not face unexpected emergencies. One of the key words is definitely to plan a city with green areas in order to cope with heavy rainfall and heat. My question to the representatives of the Ministry concerned that the development plan states that direct combustion of oil shale for electricity production will be completed by 2030 at the latest. However, in the document on the fundamentals of climate policy, which we will be discussing in the next sessions, there is a statement that oil shale is mainly used to produce electricity. Mr. Book replied that the keyword is 'direct burning'. Current carbon quota price forecasts show that oil shale electricity production will not reach the market by 2030 because prices are so high. At the same time, according to current knowledge, the direct burning of oil shale remains mixed with biomass in the Estonian energy production portfolio. In the case of oil shale, ewe gas can be used well in the energy economy, as oil prices are constantly rising. That was the question. However, since the Committee on the Environment chose me as rapporteur, I have some other thoughts that I would like to convey to you, ladies and gentlemen. This is a new document that has not previously been discussed at the level of the Riigikogu. I believe that there has been some pretty hard preparatory work so that we can get this document on our desk and discuss it here. The proposals for the 2030 Agenda were approved by the government's organisation on 27 February 2015. However, as far as history is concerned, the climate change adaptation agenda has been drawn up in accordance with the Government Regulation of 13 December 2005. I believe that the fundamentals of climate policy until 2050 must also be approved by the Riigikogu. This job, as I said, is still ahead. But two more things that we need to talk about with regard to the development plan. I want to go back to 1997. You remember that the Kyoto Protocol, this international agreement, was seriously negotiated so that countries could sign it. Within the framework of the agreement, around a third of the world's countries agreed to maintain and reduce greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels. This was the first step in the fight against global warming, and I believe that it has produced results. Estonia joined the Kyoto Protocol on 17 November 1998, and we had to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 8% between 2008 and 2012. The protocol already obliged all countries, including Estonia, to report actual greenhouse gas emissions. A national climate change strategy and action plan had to be developed. This work started 19 years ago. Today, this work has reached this hall for us and we need to discuss it in order to prepare for international cooperation. The fulfilment of these obligations requires the hiring of experts, training and the establishment of the necessary structure, or at least the restructuring of existing ones. I would like to say that Russia was against the ratification of the Treaty for a long time, but on 30 September 2004, the Protocol was approved by the Government. Russia then produced 17% of global greenhouse gases and was in favour of signing this protocol. But the larger countries, China, Brazil and the United States, did not sign the protocol. And at that time, the US was the world's largest polluter with a 36% contribution. And one more thing I'd like to mention. A few months ago, there was a climate conference in Paris, where our esteemed Minister for the Environment also took part. He signed documents on behalf of Estonia, which I think are very important for this development plan. The aim of the conference was to achieve a global climate agreement to keep the world's average temperature rise below 2 degrees for a longer period of time in order to prevent dangerous climate change. I am not going to repeat what our minister said here, commenting on this meeting, but I say that the agreement was ready to fill a record number of countries: all 197. The governments of more than 170 countries presented their concrete proposals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions before the Paris Conference. These countries account for 95% of global emissions. I was curious to see who signed it. It is good that almost all major countries, such as China, Argentina and Brazil, signed up. So in the future, maybe we'll talk about Paris as well as a big event. By 2050, greenhouse gas emissions will have to be reduced by 40 to 70% compared to 1990. I can still give you some weighting figures, I have this table right here. The European Union provides 9%, USA 12, China 24, Brazil 5.5, India 5.6, Russia 5.3 and Japan 2.8%. All these countries are committed to reducing their emissions by up to 40%. Ladies and gentlemen, Last year's renewed Competitiveness Plan "Estonia 2020" requires more efficient development of resource use in the economy in order to achieve sustainable growth. In addition to mitigating climate change and reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the transition to a resource-efficient economy also plays an important role in adapting to climate change. It is to be welcomed that on the basis of the climate change adaptation development plan, Estonia will be able to plan and manage climate change adaptation in a comprehensive way, based on a single document. This will ensure better coherence between climate change adaptation areas and reduce the administrative burden of implementing development plans in other areas. The development plan points out that Estonia has the densely populated coasts and areas along inland waterways that are most vulnerable to climate change. It is therefore important to focus on these areas and to address the risks of flooding and raising citizens' awareness, and to develop systems for forecasting water levels for seawater and inland waterways. Examples of the effects of climate change in coastal areas include the floods that occurred during the January 2005 storm, which did a great deal of damage on the coast of West Estonia and were allocated nearly EUR 20 million to the municipalities to cover the consequences. I also stress that the approval of the National Climate Change Adaptation Development Plan is necessary to use the resources of the European Structural and Investment Funds (ESIF) over the period 2014 to 2020 at a total cost of 173 million. In summary, I note that although climate change is not as extreme in Estonia as in many other countries of the world, it is still a necessary development plan. As a result of its implementation, the readiness and capacity of the Estonian state to cope with climate change will be improved, as well as the competitiveness of the Estonian state. In the Committee on the Environment, the decision was taken to propose to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu that the discussion on the 2030 climate change adaptation agenda be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 8 February and appoint Valeri Korb, Member of the commission, as rapporteur for the commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U126	Questions. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You stated in your review that this is an important document, and there has never been one in Estonia before. Now I ask whether the Commission has discussed these very interesting parts of the implementation plan, where the funds have been distributed in advance for the sub-objectives, for the areas, for the years. For example, EUR 575000 has been planned to raise society's awareness in 2018, while only 70000 will be allocated to the energy economy. To what extent did the Commission deepen and discuss the implementation plan? It would be very useful for us to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U128	Thank you for your question. We didn't discuss, say, spending all that 43 million. Between 2017 and 2020, 6.7 million will be spent. But understand, the story is that there are 47 pages. I was just talking about what went into protocol. But there are 47 pages! We were discussing new directions today. We didn't talk about any more financial matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U129	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U130	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Was there any mention of how much it could cost the agricultural sector to implement this development plan during this period?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U131	Unfortunately, I have to say that we did not discuss this amount. I will say once again that the main amounts that will be implemented through this programme will be discussed by the government and will set this thing in motion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U132	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U133	Good manager! Good waitress! It has been pointed out here that the number of invasive alien species is increasing sharply and that the effectiveness of fighting them is decreasing. Well, let me remind you, jackals that take over the land here, or muddles that do it underwater. I read in the development plan that, if it is now an average of three alien species per year, it should fall to one, three times less by 2030. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U134	I mean, good colleague, this issue is for the team of the Estonian Environment Agency, who discussed these matters. And the people of the Ministry, as well as representatives of local government, NGOs and research institutions, took part in this cooperation. Maybe they can comment more precisely on why only one out of three gets it. I read the same thing in the program. Believe me, I watched this program carefully and several times. Perhaps some more figures could be commented on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U135	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U136	Thank you. Dear waitress, The answer to my question requires a small assessment from you, but I am still asking for it. Fishing is a highly regulated area in the European Union and Estonia. How do you assess the impact of this development plan on such a climate-conscious fishing industry? Will there be even more regulation of fishing by both enthusiasts and industry? Could such an assessment be made?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U137	A very complicated question, to be honest. If we are dealing with the largest companies in the Baltic Sea, it is not enough here to contribute more than Estonia. Cooperation should be carried out at EU level. At the level of the European Commission, what to do should be discussed, and fish stocks would be larger. Then the people who are fishing in Estonia will receive more income and live better.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U138	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'll open negotiations if that's what I want. Let me remind you that in the debate on this point, absolutely all members of the Riigikogu, and not just the official representatives of the political groups, can take part in the negotiations. As there are no requests for speech and Minister Pomerants does not take this opportunity to conclude, I will close the debate on this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U139	Today's sixth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Defence Forces Service Act, the Prison Act and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Madis Milling, Member of the National Defence Commission, would like to speak on behalf of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U140	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill provides for the possibility that disciplinary arrests imposed on a military officer can be carried out in police detention facilities in addition to Defence Forces detention facilities. Detention is organised by the Defence Forces, whose budget also compensates for the cost of keeping a military officer in disciplinary custody. In doing so, a distinction must be made between those arrests which are imposed on a military officer as disciplinary sanctions and those which may be imposed on a military officer for misconduct outside his term of office as a normal civilian. The first reading of the draft was completed in s. a No amendments were tabled outside the commission by 11 January and by 5.15 p.m. on 25 January. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 26 January and 6 February. By consensus, the Commission submitted five proposals for amendments to the draft and made some linguistic corrections. In the text of the second reading of the bill, these places are underlined. The representatives of the Ministry of Defence supported the amendments and linguistic improvements. The amendments are of a very specific nature and their justifications are also set out in the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft, so I will not read them here one by one. However, Amendment 3 proposes a more fundamental amendment. The wording so far allowed disciplinary arrests to be suspended during military training only for members of the armed forces who were in the Defence Forces detention facility. As a result of the amendment proposed by the National Defence Commission, detention is also possible to participate in training, for example, in a warship where there is a space for detention. This is not, therefore, a Defence Forces detention facility. In practice, the ship participates in military training as a whole unit and while at sea it is difficult to arrange for the replacement of a military officer in detention. The National Defence Committee also draws attention to one important inaccuracies. In particular, according to point 1.3 of the explanatory memorandum of the initiator of the draft, which is also the first reading of the draft explanatory memorandum, the majority of votes in favour of the Riigikogu are necessary for the adoption of the draft. However, the National Defence Committee found that pursuant to § 104 of the Constitution, a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required to amend the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure as a law governing legal proceedings. Thus, in the third reading of the draft law under discussion, the majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, i.e. at least 51 votes in favour, is required for adoption as a law. The procedural decisions are as follows: At its meeting on 6 February, the National Defence Committee approved by consensus the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. Previously, at the 26 January session, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 8 February of this year and to propose that the second reading be terminated. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U141	Any questions for the waitress? Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U142	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! When a defence forceman is handed over to a police detention cell, certain training methods of the Defence Forces, which the Defence Forces use quite well, are excluded. How do you see that this is exactly the other part of the Defence Forces' territory that comes with the arrest now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U143	Thank you for your question. I don't know what you mean by parenting methods. Perhaps you have in mind the permanence of violence at the Soviet army detention facility. No, arrest as detention is in exactly the same way, whether it's a Defence Forces detention facility or a police detention facility. It doesn't matter what the point is. The breeding method is detention and it is exactly the same. It is simply an economic issue. That's one. Every county has a police detention facility, there are competent people who have been trained to deal with arrestants. In order to apprehend their arrestants, the Defence Forces do not have to train additional people or take out officers or sub-officers to deal with them. I will also add a logistical aspect. For example, there was a Tallinn detention house in Tallinn on Rahvamäe, where the Watch Battalion was located. Now the Watch Battalion has been removed from Rahumägi and there is no detention house in Tallinn. It would be rather unreasonable to drive a defence officer from Tallinn to carry Jõhvi or Võru. Those are the reasons. I don't see any educational purpose, cell's a cell.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U144	Marko Šorin, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U145	Thank you. Just to be clear, I still have the Estonian Defence Forces in front of my eyes where I have served.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U146	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U147	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! One hundred cases, one hundred militias a year. But there aren't a lot of places in police detentions. My question is this: how many of these boys really should go to police detentions, and is this essentially a Tapa question or is there another area?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U148	I didn't quite understand the substance of the question, but I'm trying to answer it. First of all, a little adjustment. There are certainly no cases in a hundred per year, much less. These are mainly conscripts whose main violations, as far as I remember the statistics, are, for example, returning from the city permit on a Sunday night on a weekend's weekend, with residual signs of alcohol consumption, etc. The Defence Forces do not need a detention house as such all year round, as most of these violations are related to conscripts and conscripts are not known to be in the troops for the whole year. And one important nuance that was not mentioned before: all the Estonian Defence Forces troops are guarded by the guards of the Defence League's guard companies. Before, these same guards of the Defence League's security companies dealt with arrests. But the Ministry of Justice has pointed out that a voluntary defence ally who participates in the work of a guard company on the basis of a contract is not a public authority. Thus, a member of the Defence League guard company cannot send an arrestant to a room or detention facility that has been applied for detention. The situation now arose that it was as if the Defence Forces had to deal with them themselves, which means that qualified officers or junior officers would be taken away from their daily work. It is easier to take offenders to a police detention facility with competent people and to bear these detention costs. It's like the basic idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U149	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U150	Still, the question goes on. I have papers that say that there are up to 100 armed forces in custody a year and up to seven days each, so 700 extra days. What could still be the percentage of how many of them should be transferred to the police holding cell? Not all of them, of course. Some kind of assessment, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U151	That's the point. The bill gives you the chance to take some people to police detention. There is no detention house in some battalions or units. Viru battalion has a holding house, Võru has a holding house. Of course, there's no need to take the arrester to a police detention facility. But once again, it is completely unreasonable to take Jõhvi, a conscript who committed an infringement at the Watch Battalion in Tallinn, if there is a police detention house in Tallinn. This concerns precisely those units which do not have detention facilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U152	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U153	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Was there any mention that the number of such infringements could decrease in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U154	This was not mentioned in the Commission. But ex-husbands represent a cross-section of our society and nursery. Who's gonna come back from the weekend to the squad, and he's gonna be a nipple-naks who isn't. The Defence Forces themselves cannot choose conscripts in this sense; they work with the clientele given to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U155	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Is there a wish to open negotiations? That's not what you want. We will go to the examination of the amendments. As you've heard, there are five of them, let's go over them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the National Defence Committee in full respect. The second, third, fourth and fifth amendments have also been tabled by the Committee on National Defence and all of them have been fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the commission, as the rapporteur has already pointed out, is to conclude the second reading of draft 346. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U156	Today's seventh item is the second reading of Bill 329 of the Law amending the Law on Maritime Labour, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the Act amending the Law on the Cross-Community Inclusion of Workers. On behalf of the commission, I would like to ask for a presentation of Mr Uno Kaskpeiti, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U157	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was on the agenda of the Committee on Legal Affairs on Thursday 26 January. Mariliis Proos, Head of Labour Relations Policy of the Department of Working Life Development of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Mare Toompuu, Head Specialist of the Health System Development Department of the same Ministry, and Natalja Tuvi, lawyer of the Estonian Shipowners' Association. Ms Proos presented the Ministry's proposals for amending the draft. Section 1 of the draft was supplemented by a new point 3 which reads as follows: 'paragraph 32 (7) is amended and worded as follows: '(7) For the provision of a medical remote consultation service free of charge, the Health Board shall conclude an administrative contract with the health care provider in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Administrative Cooperation Act. The provision of the service is financed from the state budget through the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs. ' I will explain what this change means. It is the responsibility of the State to organise the maritime work sector by organising the provision of a medical distance consultation service. This obligation stems from Council Directive 92/29. With the amendments to the Maritime Labour Act, the obligation to conclude an administrative contract for the provision of a distance consultation service free of charge, which was currently included in the duties of the Ministry of Social Affairs, will be transferred to the Health Board from 1 January 2018. This is precisely because it is also the competence of the Health Board to ensure the 24-hour telemedical consultation capacity of ambulances and small island assistants. That is why this change makes sense. No additional costs shall be incurred by the Agency in addition to the obligation to do so. There were, of course, questions in the Commission. Mr Randpere pointed out that the Maritime Labour Act had been amended several times over the last year and asked whether these changes could not have been made at the same time. Ms Proos explained that the amendments were due to the time-limits for transposition into national law. Secondly, Mr Randpere wondered whether the changes proposed in the draft would affect the choice of flag State for ships. Marilis Proos explained that differences in the taxes applied by the States are a determining factor in the choice of the flag State and that this draft does not, in its view, affect the choice of the flag State. Urve Tiidus asked the lawyer of the Estonian Shipowners' Association, Natalja Tuvil, to assess whether the bill was useful for shipowners. Natalja Tuvi explained that the draft does not seriously aggravate the situation of shipowners. The following was decided: firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session by today, 8 February (consensus); secondly, to propose that the second reading be closed (consensus); thirdly, when the second reading is completed, to send the draft to third reading by 15 February (consensus); and fourthly, to propose that the draft be put to the final vote (consensus decision). Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U158	Thank you very much. There are no questions for you. Do you want to open negotiations? That's not what you want. We will examine the amendments together, two of them, both of them from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Both amendments have been fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U159	Today's eighth item on the agenda is the first reading of draft law 358 amending the Packaging Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the representative of the initiator of the draft speech chair, Marko Pomerantsti, Minister of the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U160	Hello, Mr President-in-Office. Once again, good Members. I will present to you the draft law amending the Packaging Act and I hope that this first reading will not be the last. Two more readings are very welcome. You have received a draft law amending the Packaging Act prepared at the Ministry of the Environment. The draft law transposes the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council into Estonian law. The Directive aims to reduce the annual consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags per capita by 31 December 2019 to 90 and to 40 by 31 December 2025. According to a survey conducted in 2015, an Estonian resident uses up to 200 thin plastic carrier bags per year on average. These are then thinner than 50 microns and 160 of them are particularly thin plastic carrier bags, thinner than 15 microns. These are the bags you usually put tomatoes or apples in. The study carried out showed the need to reduce the number of plastic carrier bags and also highlighted the need to keep a more accurate account of the quantities of plastic carrier bags consumed. The purpose of the proposed amendment is to influence citizens to reduce the use of lightweight plastic carrier bags. As a result, our natural environment is improving, as thin plastic carrier bags, including particularly thin plastic carrier bags, are the type of packaging that is most often light-handedly left in nature. Upon the entry into force of the draft law, the sale of goods to consumers of lightweight plastic carrier bags shall be prohibited free of charge from 2019. However, the exception remains that very thin plastic carrier bags may still be used for hygiene purposes or for the initial packaging of bulk foodstuffs. It is also necessary to offer consumers alternative options at points of sale, which many shops already do. In order to obtain more accurate data on the extent of consumption of plastic carrier bags, the draft law introduces an obligation to keep a record of plastic carrier bags sold and delivered to consumers at sales points of more than one hundred square metres. This law has some positive effect on the turnover and profits of shops. Shops can use additional revenues to reduce, for example, the price of alternative carrier bags, as well as to improve the environmental awareness of the population through various environmental campaigns. The measures will have a positive impact on the living and natural environment as there will be a reduction in littering caused by plastic bags. By favouring more environmentally friendly alternatives, the ecological footprint will be reduced. The implementation of the measures will slightly increase the administrative burden on economic operators, as there will be an additional obligation to provide data. Upon the entry into force of the draft law, the Ministry of the Environment will analyse the impact of the measures taken on achieving the objective of reducing plastic carrier bags. If it is found that the existing measures are not sufficient, further restrictions may need to be imposed. In summary, I note that this is a draft law which provides for simple measures to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags and an obligation to keep records of them. Small sales outlets of less than 100 square metres are exempted from this obligation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U161	The first question to the rapporteur is asked by Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U162	Respectable waitress! Honorable Minister! The theme of plastic carrier bags has always been of interest to the media from time to time, and this is mostly the subject of lively debate. On the basis of your report and your explanatory statement, I understand that we are now doing the minimum that our European partners expect us to do. However, several countries have taken far more radical decisions in this regard and have also taken decisive steps to reduce the use of plastic bags. Would you share with us some of your thoughts as Minister on this subject? Will we ever take more radical steps? Do you think they're right or meaningless? Extend, please, the whole issue out of the framework of the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U163	Thanks! I think it's important for politics to stick to real life. I think it is wise to approach the subject in accordance with the draft. At the stage of preparation of the draft act, there was also a debate on whether the Minister for the Environment could not be the person who sets the minimum price for plastic carrier bags as just one measure that would contribute to reducing consumption. But it was treated as a very brutal commercial intervention, and it was not such an important debate that could not have gone on with the draft. I think that makes sense. And I can tell you that the situation has already changed, even without changing the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U164	Einar Vallbaum.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U165	Thank you. Honourable Minister and waitress! How is this situation in stores now? How do the shops feel about this change?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U166	Thanks! I will continue where I stopped responding to the honourable member of the Riigikogu, Andres Ammas. Today, larger supermarkets, where the main quantities are moving, have already taken steps themselves. For example, at the end of the cassals, there is no longer a roll of extra-light bags. There are also alternatives to the fruit and vegetables departments. However, I think it is very difficult to motivate a person to buy a reusable bag or a biodegradable bag if one is free and the other costs 6 cents. It's not like it's money, but it's gonna take a while before you get used to the idea of making that money. I bought two shirts at my wardrobe last week. But it's not the fact that they were not put in Sangar's plastic bag, it's nicely wrapped in paper. So the changes are taking place and, fortunately, Estonians are not such a crazy film throwing people into nature. Every step we take is good for ourselves, but for other parts of the wildlife.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U167	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, This draft law, which we are discussing today, is probably one step forward among many. Has the Ministry of the Environment made a plan to move on with this whole plastic packaging industry? Are we waiting for another follow-up?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U169	Thanks! With regard to plastics as such at all, further initiatives are expected at European Union level. But as far as the whole waste sector is concerned, I think that before you arrive at the Midsummer Day, we will come up with the full text of the Waste Act. And I'm sure there are places that are even more guiding us towards the circular economy. The real problem with Estonia is that on the one hand we are doing well because we are not taking our waste to landfills. In this respect, we are the top European players. We burn a lot because we have that kind of power. But we should be much better at recycling materials. That's a problem. We are now around 30%, the Finns have achieved 33%. It might seem like it's okay, the Finns are just as far away, even though they've been able to follow a different path of development, don't you think? But considering that by 2025 we should be half our waste-sorted materials, there's plenty and more to go there. You have to figure out how to achieve this. There is certainly a need for legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U170	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U171	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The transposition of the directive is an excellent step, but I will ask a specific question. It says here that eating these thin plastic bags by birds, animals and fish causes them to die massively. Can you tell us what the beasts are? Who exactly gets killed mass-eating plastic bags?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U172	Thanks! There are no specific statistics for Estonia. In a global sense, potential victims are all waterbirds that may be exposed to this film on the table. But the victims may also be wild animals living in Estonian nature. As a teriologist, you will certainly be able to tell members of the Riigikogu about this at length and more interestingly than I am.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U173	Erki Savisaar.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U174	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. How many of these restrictions in the draft law result from some kind of Euro Directives and how many do we have here in Estonia on our own?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U175	Thanks! The objective of no more than 90 and 40 per capita plastic bags should be used by 31 December 2019, as stated in the draft act, follows from the European Union Directive. Member States have been given different opportunities to implement this directive, i.e. to reach its objective. What's in front of you is our choice. So the goal is Europe-wide, the Estonian route.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U176	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U177	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Was it also under discussion that plastic bags should be stopped at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U178	Thanks! This is also what Mr Ammas, the Member of Parliament, mentioned that such thoughts have been in people's minds. However, in the context of the transposition of this Directive, this did not seem to be a realistic scenario and, therefore, we did not deal with it for a very long time. So you could say we weren't dealing with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U179	Minister, thank you for your answers. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Chair of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Vakra.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U180	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present to you, as the representative of the Committee on the Environment, the debate on the draft law amending the Packaging Act 358. The Committee on the Environment discussed this draft with representatives of the Ministry of the Environment on 16 January 2017 and decided to propose that it be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 8 February and that the deadline for amendments be set at 14 p.m. on 22 February. I will also announce the procedural decisions before I come to the debate. A consensual decision was made to appoint Rainer Vakra, member of the Committee on the Environment, to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu and that the first reading be closed. As regards the debate on the draft, the same issues that ladies and gentlemen asked the Minister a moment ago were also the members of the Committee on the Environment. The main postulate of the draft is that the polluter pays. At the moment, each person gets an automatic plastic bag from a store, be it a pharmacy, a shoe store, or a bookstore. In the future, the seller is obliged to ask the person whether he wants to buy a plastic bag. The price can be one, two, five cents, just as much as the individual company thinks is right. But it's clear you can't share free plastic bags. They must also not be distributed in the framework of a variety of campaigns. The principle is that every person should think about whether or not he needs that plastic bag. We asked the Minister who went to the Committee on the Environment to talk about this subject, other questions than those that had colleagues here. Mr Kruuse, for example, asked that plastic bags have been banned in some countries in the world. In France, Ireland and Italy, with certain exceptions, thin plastic carrier bags are completely prohibited. In Estonia, we have not gone this way. The Committee on the Environment also supported the option of making a person at the cash register wonder if he or she needed a plastic bag. If he buys it, many people will find that he doesn't really need that plastic bag. Statistics have shown this. Meelis Mälberg, a good sportsman and a strong orienteer, pointed out that plastic bags are used elsewhere than in the retail trade, for example, in the orienteering competitions the cards are placed in the plastic bag. Can plastic bags be distributed free of charge in future orienteering competitions? The news for all those who go to the Nõmme market or orienteering competitions is that since these bags have already been paid for before, in these cases, the plastic bag can be delivered free of charge to people. This also applies to retail outlets with an area larger than 100 square metres. In addition, the Minister was asked if it was possible that the price of the plastic bag would be hidden in the price of the product. If you buy an expensive suit or shoes at the store, they may be automatically added to the price of the item, but it looks like a plastic bag is free. However, according to the law, the cost of the plastic bag is, in any case, on a separate line. It is not possible to hide the price of the plastic bag in the price of the product. In addition, in the Committee on the Environment, representatives of the Ministry were asked what the process would look like technically. The answer was very simple: it is, in fact, already seen in the larger retail chains. A barcode is placed on thin plastic bags, and like large carrier bags, they are pulled through the machine. It automatically registers barcodes and the consumer has to pay for such environmental behaviour. In addition, there was a question that specifically concerned the 100 square metres limit. Has this been discussed in cooperation with stakeholders? According to the Estonian Traders' Association, there are about 780 shops in Estonia with an area of less than 100 square metres, and their exclusion from reporting does not affect the total consumption of plastic carrier bags much. It was also specified that the storage area of this 100 square metre area is also included, which means that these are very small stalls. As I said, the Committee on the Environment unanimously supported this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U181	Before I open a round of questions, I will specify, dear waitress, one thing. Is it 22 February at 4 p.m., as you say, or 14 p.m., as you said?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U182	The way we wrote it, at 4:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U183	Okay, thanks! Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U184	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! A few minutes ago, the honourable minister was attracted to a slightly wider debate on plastic bags, and I would also like to give you the opportunity to take a slightly broader approach. Was the Commission this time, or has more radical measures to reduce plastic bag pollution been discussed in relation to any other matter? Was this really just a draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U185	Thank you. On 16 January, only the draft issue remained within the scope. However, the Committee on the Environment has also discussed the most radical options, for example, in the framework of the twice-organised Killerkot campaign of the Environmental Investment Centre. In the Committee on the Environment, we had representatives of almost twenty major retail businesses, and then we also looked at this version of how it would affect them if they were to completely ban plastic bags. The intermediate option was that a minimum price could be fixed. If we leave the price open, it may be one or two cents, but why not state the price at least 15 or 20 cents or why not one euro. That would be the price that makes a plastic bag buyer think. In the end, the Commission, in cooperation with the Ministry, decided to go this most sensible way to knock on the conscience of the Estonian consumer at the moment he made the purchase and ask him if he really needs this plastic bag. We decided not to set a compulsory price, be it one euro or whatever.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U186	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U187	Thank you. Dear waitress, In fact, I should have asked the Minister, but I was late. At the end of his presentation, the words said that the directive contained certain figures on how many people I understand that small plastic bags may be available in the European Union. Some number was 90, and then there was another number. Did you somehow discuss this on the committee that who, for God's sake, can control how many plastic bags somebody has?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U188	Thank you. The numbers were right. So I'd be happy to answer for the Minister that for thin plastic bags, it was number 90 and so-called strong plastic bags, 40. And it was about annual consumption per person. If we look at Estonian statistics, surveys show that for Estonian people this figure was about 40 plastic carrier bags and about 165 especially thin plastic bags. Of course, these studies are carried out with the Traders' Association, and this is the statistical average. I believe and hope that there will certainly be people who do not have any plastic bags, and there will also be those who have 300 or 400 plastic bags on the contrary. But the average figure in Estonia is that there are 165 thinner and 40 thicker, which are actually surprisingly large numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U189	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U190	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm not gonna ask what beasts eat plastic bags so hard and die. But I ask whether the leaders of the Chamber of Commerce and Traders' Association, who think that it is not a good idea to ban thin plastic bags or impose a price on them, are with anti-environmental views or have some other reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U191	Thank you. First of all, as a result of these proposals, we actually made this amendment to the draft. We are not talking about a specific price imposed by the state, but, ultimately, about the price to be set by the shops. Point B: It should be noted that this is not a state tax that the state is paying for itself. That money's gonna be for their own expenses. So there has been no great opposition from them in this regard. The proposals have rather come in cooperation and in a joint debate. In advance, however, I say that since this is only a first reading, we will discuss these issues again tomorrow with those parties you have mentioned, including the Estonian Merchants Association, before the second reading. So if good colleagues have good ideas on how to supplement the bill, they are certainly welcome. As Mr President pointed out, the deadline for amendments is, I will repeat, on 22 February 2017 at 4 p.m., not as I said the first time, at 14 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U192	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U193	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! If I understand correctly, the main objective is to reduce certain types of pollution and the risk that these environmentally harmful plastic bags will enter the wild. But do you really believe that if the plastic bag is on sale in the vegetable department for six cents, it will force the consumer to give up the plastic bag? Would it not rather be the right way to use only biodegradable bags?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U194	Thank you, very good question! In my opinion, the fact that money is being taken from a person for environmentally anti-environmental consumption habits certainly directs all entrepreneurship and retail trade towards biodegradable packaging. Better than biodegradable, however, would be recyclable packaging. For example, there are net carrier bags for fruit that can be used repeatedly. But from my own experience, I'm telling you, this change is going to be unspoken. For example, I have asked how many customers demand plastic bags when buying medicines at a pharmacy. Honourable pharmacists have repeatedly claimed that there are people who are upset when they are left without putting the patch box in a separate plastic bag. If the pharmacist doesn't, they're gonna ask. Unfortunately, society has a very deep understanding that each single book or patch box must be in a separate plastic bag. I do not believe that the mere question of whether you want it and are willing to pay for it will easily change it. In the last few weeks, I've also been to bookstores, and a salesman told me that you're making our lives very difficult, because those people who want to get each book in a separate plastic bag are more than we think.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U195	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Do the political groups want to start negotiations? I will close the negotiations without opening them. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 358. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 358 amendments at 4 p.m. on 22 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U196	Today's ninth item on the agenda is the first reading of the Youth Work Act initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Education Act of the Republic of Estonia and the Amendment to the Interest School Act 341. Please present the representative of the initiator of the draft speech chair, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Repsi!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U197	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! I come to the points I have prepared and look forward to a discussion on the subject of which the raising of which will be carried forward more than a decade ago. In this way, it is prouder that the bill has been passed through a wide variety of government formations and even several Riigikogu formations. Not exactly the bill, but the idea. So I'm sure everyone's up to speed. Now, to be more precise, the Government of the Republic approved the concept of a support system for youth interest activities at the meeting of the Cabinet of 10 March 2016. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme or measures coming under this item, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Commission under ad hoc service At the time, the Ministry of Culture took the lead in drawing up the concept, with the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Finance being co-responsible. Representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, local government associations, cultural and interest associations and the Estonian Youth Associations Association were also involved. The concept was based on three funding models drawn up by the Ministry of Education and Research: firstly, universal or bounty-based, secondly, only needs-based and thirdly, a result-based financing model. The discussion found that, with limited financial resources, the most effective way to increase young people's participation is through needs-based funding, which ensures flexible but result-oriented education of interest, support for interest activities, with a focus on removing bottlenecks. Interest education and recreational activities are areas of youth work that enable young people to acquire knowledge and skills, but also to develop attitudes in selected areas of interest. At the same time, the hobby education is acquired in the hobby school according to the law of the hobby school, i.e. on the basis of registered curricula. However, there are many more places to carry out activities, such as general education schools, youth centres and youth associations, and activities are often more short-term and not solely based on curricula. Organising youth work, including hobby education and recreational activities, is the responsibility of the municipality on the basis of the Local Government Organisation Act. Municipalities organise youth work with the structural units of the municipality or city administration as well as through delegated services, by financing non-profit organisations, companies and many other forms. The municipality's contribution to youth work amounts to around EUR 100 million per year. This is complemented by state subsidies, programmes, many private initiatives and considerable parenting contributions. However, the opportunities for young people to participate in recreational education or activities are not equal, depending on socio-economic backgrounds, regional characteristics and other circumstances beyond the control of young people. As opportunities for participation in recreational education and activities are not guaranteed for all young people, today's debate is an important topic for access to recreational education and activities: the existence of forms of activity in a youth's area of activity, the affordability of participation fees, the availability of young people's expected learning and personal resources, the availability of transport facilities for participation, and the suitability of the language and forms of study for young people. The diversity of recreational education and activities means having a choice in the main areas of interest. There is also a connection between the increased awareness of opportunities among young people and their parents. The quality of recreational education and activities depends on ensuring the positive impact of participation in activities, the ability to develop talents, support students with special needs and the development capacity of areas of interest. Why am I making these points so precise? Because exactly such objectives were agreed in the process of drafting the law with stakeholders. The Ministry of Education and Research has developed a draft law amending the Youth Work Act, the Education Act of the Republic of Estonia and the Interest School Act, which lays down the basis for additional state support, based on previous work and decisions and the aim of the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic of Estonia to implement the concept of supporting youth activities. The additional support we are discussing here today consists of three parts: direct support for local authorities, support for consulting local authorities, monitoring and promoting cooperation between local authorities and support for representative associations in areas of interest. In order to implement the Act, the national budget strategy provides for an amount of EUR 6 million in 2017 and for an amount of EUR 15 million from 2018. Local authorities are planned to allocate ca 95% of the total amount of support through the Support Fund. The aim of the grant is to increase the participation of young people aged 7 to 19 in recreational education and activities by increasing accessibility and diversity. If the opportunities created are sufficient, of course, all young people aged 20 to 26 can also take part. Support for each municipality will be based on a component of accessibility and diversity. The availability component takes into account the number of young people living on the territory of the municipality, the number of young people with disabilities and the number of young people aged 7 to 19 living in families in difficulty, in order to ensure access to education of interest and activities primarily for those who do not have it at all or are inadequate. The results of the accessibility components are divided by the financial capacity indicator of the local government unit. The second part, i.e. the diversity component, is calculated on the basis of the number of young people and the number of young people with disabilities. The predominant share of young people in the component, together with the coefficient of regional availability of the local government unit, ensures that the scale effect is taken into account. The ratio between components is proposed for 30% availability and 70% diversity. The recitals are as follows: Smaller municipalities are not as capable as larger in organising recreational education and activities. In small municipalities, one third more young people are living in coping difficulties than in large municipalities. In small municipalities, there are more problems with ensuring the diversity of recreational activities for young people, and ensuring diversity is more expensive for one young person than for larger municipalities. The purpose of using the grant is for the local government to decide. Support is conditional on continuing supporting the main costs of the municipality's education of interest and activities of interest. It is therefore not permitted to use aid for the acquisition or use of real estate and means of transport, for the construction of buildings and structures, for the payment of property, buildings, premises and management costs, or for expenditure incurred so far from its budget. More detailed conditions for the allocation and use of the grant are laid down in the Government of the Republic's Regulation 'Conditions and procedures for the allocation and use of the funds allocated to local government units in the State Budget Act'. The municipality must take account in particular of the socio-economic situation of families aged 7 to 19 with young people, the opportunities for families with children, the specific physical and psychological needs of young people and the availability of recreational activities and education due to regional location. Secondly, the local government must respond to the needs of young people and, thirdly, it must ensure access to activities and education of interest at least in the following areas: culture, sport and natural and precision sciences and technology (LTT). The draft provides for municipalities to draw up and submit to the Ministry of Education and Research a plan for recreational education and activities. It outlines the number of young people involved in recreational education and activities and the opportunities for participation, describes the bottlenecks in access to and diversity in recreational education and activities, as well as actions to address these bottlenecks, either alone or in cooperation with other municipalities. In analysing the situation and planning further activities, the Estonian Youth Work Centre, managed by the Ministry of Education and Research, advises municipalities by contacting local governments, analysing opportunities to cooperate with other municipalities, advising and supporting the preparation of the plan, identifying bottlenecks and offering solutions and planning additional activities. In addition, the law establishes support for the development of the quality of areas of interest. This support is granted to representative associations in the fields of interest and represents around 2,5% of the total budget. For example, in the fields of LTT, music, art, sport, dance and general culture, cooperation between representative associations and joint programming of activities will be supported. Support can be used, for example, to develop training methodologies, develop networking and ensure information exchange. The criteria for applying for and granting the grant will be reaffirmed by the respective regulations of the Ministry of Education and Research and the funding will start at the beginning of 2018. The draft law has been coordinated by representative associations and local government associations and ministries of the main areas of interest. By the time the Act enters into force, the Government of the Republic has proposed 1 July 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U198	The first question to the rapporteur is put by Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U199	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! Indeed, this bill is only to be welcomed and rejoiced about. However, I have a much more fundamental question. So far, we are used to treating recreational education and activities primarily as part of education. What are the reasons why recreational education and recreational activities are now included in youth work?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U200	Good questioner, thank you! First of all, one part of the definition of youth work has always been an activity of interest or an education of interest, since youth work in the broadest sense involves many things. It's not like it's now down there. Today I had a meeting with the musicians' representatives and they still had a bit of a scratch on the subject. If you go back several years now, at the very beginning there was a pretty good hope that this extra money would be linked to curriculum activities and education of interest. As a result of lengthy discussions and discussions, it turned out that it could not be so severely restricted. As studies also showed that where there has been insufficient provision of recreational education, this is sometimes a problem of accessibility and consideration of needs, this concept began to extend to all activities of interest. Let's say that if recreational education is no longer limited to recreational schools, registers, curricula and all that, then it is already inclined towards the biggest field of youth work, i.e. activities. Personally, I see no contradiction here, but it is probably also due to the fact that youth work and education in the Ministry of Education are always intertwined. Where's the border? When classes end in school and activities begin in various circles, everyone still considers this to be part of education. But if you look at it like that in a purely technical way, you could also say that youth work begins. I do not see much of a difference, but if it is something that we could still discuss with each other, I believe it would be wise to unravel the matter in the Committee on Culture, because it has still raised questions in recreational schools. As I say, today's meeting was quite emotional.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U201	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U202	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! It's my pleasure to see you on the remote with this bill, too. I would like to know a little more about our current state of interest education. I understand that when you were preparing the draft, you undoubtedly carried out research and became fully acquainted with the situation. I fully understand that there may be completely different bottlenecks and bottlenecks in different regions. But did you still draw any patterns that you could do with a little bit of generalisation and share it with us? Is there a problem with low pay for supervisors, lack of qualified instructors at all, transport, limited choice, etc.? Did you draw any patterns that could be generalised, where we have these weak spots right now? What do we hope, above all, to achieve with this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U203	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, I must say at once that, in my personal capacity, I represent the Ministry of Education and, more generally, the Government of the Republic in this area today. At this point, I must thank the previous formations, the previous ministers, because this issue has been dealt with for a very long time. I've inherited these studies, they've already been carried out. Civil society in the broadest sense has been involved, with strong involvement of the same good organisations representing recreational education and activities. What are the patterns, availability? When we talk about scattered settlements, transport arrangements are clearly an obstacle. There are socio-economic risk groups that have an obstacle to participation fees. As I briefly mentioned here today, sometimes the requirements for participation in activities of interest are an obstacle. For example, such simple things as the need to bring your own resources. Once a certain level has been reached, perhaps there will be participation fees in some competitions, and that is why young people fall out. When it comes to diversity, the field of technology and natural and precision sciences are clearly under-represented. Most local authorities do not offer the opportunity to deal with these areas at all or to a very limited extent. This is also the reason why this third area has now come in very strongly. I am not just talking about robotics and IT circles, but much more about what could be offered in the field of engineering and science. In the recent debate in the Committee on Culture, for example, the issue of the involvement of young people with disabilities and large families, which concerns the whole socio-economic side, again came up. As far as diversity and accessibility are concerned, one of the most lively discussions has been on the table, and I expect the Riigikogu to continue this discussion on whether our objectives are somewhat contradictory. We have to find compromises here and therefore the ratio proposed in the draft is 30% and 70%. The reason is that when we look at where most of the education of interest is concentrated, these are in general county centres, or larger centres. However, if we look at the bottlenecks of the lack of diversity, accessibility, the largest number of young people who are excluded from the activities of interest, they are rather outside the centres. So it has been quite difficult to decide whether we should support the centres where this diversity already exists and say to involve more young people in the surrounding municipalities, or whether we will give more support to local authorities themselves to develop this diversity. It is now proposed that this money will be diverted more from the centres. Of course, there is a possibility that if the centre and surrounding municipalities agree on a model for involving children in sports or art circles, for example, and especially in music schools, which are usually in centres, then this compensation mechanism is a matter of deciding between themselves. So bottlenecks are more about availability, lack of choice and certain risk groups. With this draft, we are trying to tell the local government that it is good to pay particular attention to these three areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U204	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U205	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In your speech, you also noted that the local government, which, as if it were trying to cover its expenses with new potential revenues, can be closely monitored and controlled and there is no problem. For me, however, there is a very difficult question about this distribution of money: how can we make a clear distinction between failing to set priorities, whether it is a lack of ability or a lack of will? It is, in my opinion, very difficult to identify. Is there a starting line from which we take into account that local authorities have not really wanted to contribute to this activity, and that is not a priority for him, although he may claim that there is no money left?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U206	Very good question, but there is no very good answer. This is the dilemma of how much we want to trust the local government and how much we want to prescribe to it. According to this draft, the aim is still to have a relatively high level of trust. There are small control mechanisms inside, discussion options, mutual reporting, but in fact, the local government is given this money by the product mentioned above, and they say, "Do not be good, deal with these priority areas, tell me how you have solved bottlenecks and done everything else." If the local authority has still not allocated resources to this activity and now adds EUR 20000 or EUR 30000, for example, then I hope that there will be at least some pressure under this law to answer the question of why this area has received so little attention. However, where I see a real bottleneck, it is that up to now, activities are mostly targeted at the age of 7-11. When I answered the good question of Andres, I did not say that the percentage of entrepreneurship with 13-year-olds and 13- to 19-year-olds goes down significantly, i.e. the older young people get, the lower their options and their involvement. This certainly requires special attention and work from the local government. What are the odds here? Yes, we can advise, we can talk to them, we can somehow stigmatize them, bring them out. The small change also comes from the fact that, if we still have almost three times less municipalities, is it so evenly bad in all the municipalities? I believe that, as a result of the administrative reform, there will also be more pressure groups, such as parents, who will simply demand it. As far as cost coverage is concerned, here's just the thing that the local government has to show that something is getting better. However, if he has not so far put money into action and now all of a sudden he starts to do something better with this instrument, then yes, this is not how he solves the shortcomings in setting priorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U207	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U208	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question concerns the age range and that support is provided for those aged 7 to 19 and, in certain cases, for those under the age of 26. I was trying to figure out why the choice of five and six years of age has been made. In certain areas, as we know, we are still starting much earlier, taking even figure skating, where the ice is going much earlier, taking gymnastics or boys, for example, judo. Or parents want language learning to start earlier, our president has said that language could be learned already in kindergarten. For what reasons has such a choice been made? I also think about children with disabilities, for example, if someone suffers from juvenile arthritis, it is very important for him to become involved in sport as early as possible. Why is this age group chosen? Why should support not extend to persons aged 5, 4 or 3 for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U209	Thank you, good questioner! Here I have also inherited the result of such a long-term debate. I understand that this was finally the compromise. Yes, indeed, the possibility of paying the grant was also discussed 3. to 1 year of age. The balance point was perhaps found on the basis that, from many points of view, it could be a choice for young people, that there were very many parental choices before the age of seven. Then there was another round of discussions. If we look at the lack of diversity and the differences also in the specialties offered, the majority of the funds have been decided to go beyond the centres, in proportion to the clear majority. After all, all this occupancy, involvement, awareness of the local government is actually the best way to deal with schoolchildren because of the obligation to do so. I understand that with my answer, I'm going a little further than I was asked. The simple answer is that this was the compromise that was agreed. I believe that the Committee on Culture can come back to this debate again and look at what these arguments are, plus-minus, but that is exactly the compromise that was finally reached. Now, on the subject of whether we should include local authorities in their responsibilities to bring significantly younger ones to the activities of interest and all such things. At present, such activities are very much related to school age. I think that we might be able to think together about whether this is always justified. In local government, as most of us believe to know, it is the same that support is usually given from the age of seven. In addition to this, there are exceptions to what you were talking about, i.e. whether there are sports that need to be dealt with earlier, or whether there are special needs cases where local government support is also available. For example, in the case of cities, it has usually been broken down by group or by sector, but generally it will also be supported from the age of seven.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U210	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U211	Thank you. Good minister, first of all, praise to you! This is a very important issue, we have been trying to do something here for years, and in the end we will be getting to action. It is all positive that if an education of interest is also made more accessible to young people for whom it has not been available to date. My question, however, concerns the other half of young people who, although they have opportunities or have opportunities to pursue an education of interest, are not interested in walking in supervised circles. We are exposed to it, for example, in the Estonian School Sports Association. Young people have inevitably developed many other temptations, especially in the form of computers, etc. When preparing the draft, did you also analyse how to involve this target group more closely, how to make these young people's interest activities more attractive?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U212	Thank you. First of all, this was largely the reason why the draft went much wider and became a source of interest and why it was not restricted either by ownership or by place of business. Interest activities can take place in schools where it is the easiest to involve young people, which can take place in youth centres through completely different, alternative options, especially when we talk about natural sciences and precision or technical circles. Perhaps circular work can be organised more in the evening and in a much more flexible way, based on the possibilities of our digital world. We have also discussed more broadly what is smart youth work at all and how to get young people better involved first through technological progress and then to be involved in some activities. For those more complex target groups, 13 to 15, whose percentage of inclusion is unfortunately going down, those who strongly support the development of natural sciences and science, have said that they could involve them much more. In the case of sport activities, this bill, as you know very well, has specifically highlighted diversity. The sport sector, as such, is not sufficient if some sports are represented in the local government. If a young person has an interest in or is interested in other areas and has to go a little further than home to deal with them, for example, local authorities must ensure this possibility. He cannot say that we have wrestling practice here, and it is enough for a young person to want to engage in another sport. Diversity and accessibility are the objectives that this law seeks to achieve. But if you answer more broadly, as we live a lot in this project and programme economy today, there is one subject that is being dealt with separately. The two ministries of industry, the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs are involved. The simplest way to put it in Estonian is to talk about young people who are completely excluded. Local authorities have been very good partners here, such young people have indeed started to be hunted down one by one, instructed and offered opportunities. A hundred percent of the result cannot be achieved here, of course, but if one in three young people is currently involved in this target group, there is too little. If we could at least reach every other young person, we could talk about having some kind of awareness and ability. And then, of course, there is this risk side of the transport or socio-economic status associated with obstacles, exclusion, psychological problems or some kind of failure experience. If recreational activities are directed separately and someone takes it to heart, then perhaps many young people will return to the activities of interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U213	Urmas Kruuse, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U214	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! When I listened to your report, I noticed how you indicated that the accent was being diverted from the centre because it was like there was enough financial cover in the centre. On the other hand, it can be said that children who do not live there every day, for example, go to school or are involved in the mobility of their parents, also benefit from the opportunities offered by the centres. Does this support, which will now be paid, give a small local government, for example, the opportunity to compensate financially for one supervisor, the coach's arrival in a small place where he would not otherwise come? After all, what we see in Estonia today is that some sports, hobby groups' instructors are leaving the centres, if you could say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U215	Thank you for a good question. Depends on how small the area we're talking about. You can't send a special tutor to the border island, but there's only one young person there. It is likely that other models will have to be found there. Ruhnu also has a little young people to hire a separate person. Given that these municipalities, which are very small, also largely join each other, I generally say yes, is possible. If it is now indeed addressed to one specialist, of course, this measure is not enough. But it is certainly an addition and a help, because in the first year we are only talking about four months, still tens of thousands, and if we are going to go to the full year, there will be on average significantly more than EUR 100000 per municipality. If this money were to be well spent, it would certainly help to hire a specialist or to deal with these bottlenecks. What about these specialists outside the centers? We know that these models are very different. Sometimes it helps when a center specialist comes once or twice a week. He gets the teams open and then he doesn't have to keep him on full pay all the time. I believe that support in this regard will certainly solve something. If the question really is in a few young people, then yes, in the case of scattered settlements, it may be easier for one to travel to one centre, the other to go the other. Depends on how the local government agrees, we don't stand in the way here. The specialist you hire may not be from your municipality. In the case of large municipalities in particular, there are so many attraction centers around, depending on what interests young people have, perhaps the skiing of mountains is suitable for some, the other is quite different. The odds are bound to come.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U216	Please, Heidy Purga!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U217	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I also came up with a question from my colleague, Lauri Luige. Recently, the Archimedes Centre held a debate on youth work, where, among other things, disturbing information remained for me, as if some local authorities had no specific ideas about youth work in their development plan. This seminar pointed out, for example, that a couple of development plans actually stated that youth work was taking place, but which one and to whom it was intended was not specified. Are there any substantive guidelines to help those who do not have the information to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U218	Thank you, very good question! Indeed, part of the content of this draft is addressed to advice. We dare to rely here on a form of cooperation that has lasted for a little while, where the municipality must map and analyse activities in the field of youth work and find joint parts with other municipalities. The idea was, given that in the context of the administrative reform, a large part of the municipalities would later join, to train them to rethink their activities in the field of youth work. Yes, unfortunately, there are many cases of crime; they are not just a few. The reason is also that the youth worker, as such, is understood in very different ways. His status, often also his qualifications, varies greatly in local governments. However, as a result of this form of cooperation, I dare say that our idea is to rely on people who have worked according to the ENTK model. This is also why we in the Ministry of Education and Research do not ask for new posts for this area, but rely on the same people who have worked with local authorities for a rather considerable period, often with youth workers. We need to analyse what else they could do and where they could do something together. It is clear that, for example, the wider development of the LTT or technical circles, the involvement of young people in these circles may not be feasible for every municipality. What do young people want, especially when we talk about this more complex target group? So we rely on the experience we have, and we're going to do the same. There has also been a great deal of emotion around the drafting of these development plans. Some say it's extra paperwork for local authorities. However, the position of youth professionals has been to consider together what this activity is. The education of interest, which is a music school or a sports school, is mostly understood. What is action of interest may not have been acknowledged in some areas. Mapping, analysing, looking at what this is, the conclusions can be a surprise to the local government itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U219	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U220	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The youth circles are very pleased that you are once again a minister. Many remember that the student chess got stable funding just before you were a minister. However, looking at the views expressed by a number of organisations on this draft, both the Association of Municipalities and the Cities have pointed out that this support can only be one-off. What can you say to these organizations to reassure them? What is your so-called vision of how to provide stable support to local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U221	Thank you. First of all, the funding has still been proposed in such a way that, as of 2018, it will be divided between local governments and will go to the income base. So in this sense, it is not project-based financing. But when it comes to long and stable funding, we are finally drawing up the annual budget here in the Riigikogu, and the expectation and belief is that the income base of local governments will not be significantly reduced and the part of youth work will not disappear. Once in the second half of the 1990s, if we go back further to history, we agreed that this was the task of a local government. Such quite targeted funds moved to the local government's revenue base. It was a rather complicated era, and discussions were held on the future of sports schools, music schools, and art schools. Everyone who remembers this time knows what I'm talking about. It didn't take ten years to forget that in time the obligation came along with the revenue base. It began to be said that the local government has never been provided with the means to do so. I can't offer any more certainty than I can recall the experience of the past. We now have such an agreement, we give extra money in anticipation and in the hope that, in cooperation with local authorities, we will find solutions to bottlenecks. If, then, in a few years' time, we see that it wasn't enough or that there were other issues to be resolved, we'll find out what we agreed, remember and perhaps start again in the verbatim. But yes, at present it is not meant as a target money, which will run separately somewhere on the basis of the programme, but will go on to the local government's income base under the line "Huviharidus."
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U222	Honourable waitress! No further questions for you. As you know, according to § 71 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, you will have the opportunity to make a statement after the end of the round of negotiations. Now, on behalf of the Commission, I call for a chair to be presented to the Vice-Chairwoman of the Committee on Culture, Laine Randjärv. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U223	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank the Minister for his very thorough answers. It is good to note that the Minister also participated very thoroughly in these discussions as a member of the Cultural Commission of the current Riigikogu when it was discussed. So there is confidence in continuity. I am here to introduce to you the Youth Work Act, the Education Act of the Republic of Estonia and the Amendment Act of the Interest School Act 341 discussions in the Committee on Culture and the procedural decisions made. The topic of youth interest, as the Minister mentioned, has been at the heart of discussions between the government and the Riigikogu Committee on Culture for the last ten years. As you will remember, the so-called 'round money support system' was also developed between 2008 and 2009, which unfortunately did not operate due to the economic downturn at the time. However, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Research had already done a lot of preliminary work. Today, a draft law has been reached, preceded by a number of substantial preparatory work. The basic document of the draft currently under discussion is the "Consensual Agreement between the Estonian Reform Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Fatherland and Res Publica Union on the Fundamentals of the Government formation and the Programme of Action of the Government Union' concluded in April 2015. In order to implement the plan agreed at the time, members of the Committee on Culture began to actively prepare the draft as soon as 2015, meeting with professional associations and local government leaders and parents in the field. A great deal of attention has been paid to the proposals and concerns of families with children's wealth. The Board of the Association of Music Schools has also been met and the preparatory draft has been explained at the General Assembly of the Association of Music Schools in June last year. At the beginning of 2016, the Committee on Culture examined the concept of a support system for youth interest activities prepared by the Ministry of Culture, which was then directed to the Ministry of Education and Research for finalisation in order to bring the drafting of the draft into line with the above-mentioned laws of the Ministry of Education. During 2016, representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research were repeatedly met to keep up with the progress of the preparation of the draft. On 7 December 2015 and 9 February 2016, the Committee on Culture dealt with the concept, specifying the exact dates. In addition, the Commission discussed the concept both by examining the Ministry's action plans and during the discussions on the state budget this year. The area of interest includes all extracurricular and recreational activities. In terms of the draft law, we are talking about at least three areas: culture, including beautiful arts and cultural values, sport and natural and precision sciences. The aim here is both to engage with the supervisor in extracurricular circles, i.e. to engage in activities of interest, as well as to study in music, art and sports schools, which take place on the basis of approved curricula and under the guidance of qualified teachers, i.e. to study in the field of interest. When preparing the material, it was found that in many municipalities already participation in recreational activities is organised on the basis of the local government's budget. Making recreational activities available to young people who live further away from large centres is a major concern. Around 15% of young people do not participate in any activities of interest and, unfortunately, the opportunities for children with special needs are very limited. In small municipalities there are few supervisors and children have limited opportunities to engage in their area of interest if there is no supervisor or suitable facilities and facilities on the ground. By the way, there was a very representative sample of children's rich families, with over 1,500 interviewed people, it turned out that the decisions of parents were primarily influenced by logistics issues, i.e. opportunities to travel to the circles. 62% of parents reported that the distance from the place of residence is the biggest obstacle to children's participation in the circles, the inadequacy of public transport timetables and the cost of driving their cars back and forth. For this reason, we considered it very important to provide regional guidance both for the remuneration of teachers and tutors and for transport support so that teachers can travel from centres or some music or art school to remote regions and children can travel to a neighbouring municipality or county to carry out their activities. The draft, prepared at the Ministry of Education and Research and then sent to the Riigikogu, was discussed in the committee at two sittings: Laine Randjärv was appointed as the rapporteur of the committee on 9 January and the draft was discussed with representatives of the Ministers Repsi and Saare and the Ministry on 17 January. I will give an overview of what has been said in the Committee on Culture on 17 January. The Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps, presented this draft to the Commission, which was born in cooperation with the two ministries. The Minister added to the background that the draft had essentially started many years ago when the concept was called '2000 kroon round money', and in time it has become a support for interest education and recreational activities through discussions. As the Minister pointed out, it was decided as a result of a long process that the support was not specifically intended for an interest school, but for both hobbies and activities at all levels. Support is relatively peacefully available due to the priority areas of local government and it has been added that it must improve access to education for children with special needs and from social risk groups. Indrek Saar, Minister of Culture, added that the draft included target groups in a very systematic and thorough manner and the draft was a compromise resulting from consultations between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Research. According to Indrek Saar, the definition of "joying education and recreational activities" as part of youth work raises questions about the draft. The position of the Ministry of Culture is that hobby education is part of the activities of interest that are registered in the Estonian Education Information System according to current rules, and is the basis for the income tax concession. The advisor of the Ministry added that the idea of the concept is to implement support on a need-based basis through local authorities, as the local government has the best overview of children who for various reasons do not participate in the activities of interest. The following topics were addressed during the debate: Laine Randjärv wanted an overview of the bottlenecks in the implementation of the law, the readiness of local authorities to implement the law in the light of the ongoing administrative reform and cooperation between the merging municipalities. In response, we have heard that the regions that are now formed as cooperation regions remain the same after the administrative reform and that there should therefore not be any difficulties in implementing the law. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) under the The current financing model is designed according to existing statistics, which generate coefficients, and are accession-neutral. Everything depends on the number of children and the density of the children's location, not the size of the local government itself. Aadu Black asked about the share of support components and the possibility to implement them differently, given the face and quality of the settlements. It was said that all regular activity is an activity of interest, and some part of it is an education of interest, which pleads for more thoughtful learning activities. The way the local government decides whether to organise the activities of interest itself, order the service or how much of it has been registered in the Estonian Education Information System is a purely local government matter and does not depend on the coefficients. The balance of the distribution of resources depends on the weighting, i.e. to what extent child poverty and population density are taken into account. This is where the balance changes, the content of the sense doesn't change anything. The share of grants is 30%: 70% ensures that municipalities who are not as capable as large cities for various reasons can receive more support to improve access to services for children. Heljo Pikhof examined the draft of the term 'free learning' mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. The representative of the Ministry explained that the new term "free learning' was intended to be introduced in the new Education Act. However, the Commission found that the words 'education of interest' and 'action of interest' should be unambiguous for reasons of legal clarity and defined both in the current draft and in the future Education Act. Free learning does not convey the real meaning of these concepts and may lead to misunderstandings. It therefore remained the agreement that before the new Education Act becomes applicable, the current Education Act would have the same explanation of the education of interest as the Youth Work Act. Krista Aru was interested in the planned use of funds allocated to the Estonian Youth Work Centre and in e-applications related to the implementation of the support system and advice. It was explained that there are no additional posts planned for the Estonian Youth Work Centre. The Centre is provided with 2.5% of the total amount of support to provide support and advice to local governments and, on the basis of reports, an overview of the situation. The plan is to create an IT solution where the available data arrives, and the missing data can be added by the municipality in such a way as to make the database a convenient tool for comprehensive funding of recreational education and recreational activities. The model is under development and the original version will be completed by July 2017. Laine Randjärv brokered the proposal of the Estonian Association of Children's Rich Families to review the conditions for the use of the state budget support and possible links with this bill in connection with the system of support for recreational activities. Minister Reps replied that directing attention to large families is very positive and the Ministry of Education and Research is preparing a draft amendment to the regulation for the second reading. The debate also addressed the issue of the possible reduction of the compulsory study burden and the possible duplication of the existing study programme and the education of interest. The Minister expressed the opinion that caution should be exercised with regard to the compulsory change in the volume of study, as the learning burden varies greatly from one age to another. Following this meaningful discussion, the following consensual decisions were taken: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 8 February 2017, to propose the completion of the first reading and to set the deadline of 22 February 2017 at 5.15 p.m. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U224	Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation. There are no questions as to what is a chronic feature of comprehensive reports. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Yes, it is. Heljo Pikhof on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U225	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to be here before you and to commend the draft law on education of interest. Without any false shame, I can say that this is a bill that makes Estonia a better place, a better place for our children and young people. Children who kill time at shopping centres or bored youngsters who gather at rural bus stops are quite a common sight, not to mention children who spend most of their spare time on computers or smartphones. Yes, young people need to communicate with their peers and also have your friendship with a computer, but all of this to a reasonable degree. When only school, home, and the Internet can fit into a young person's life, there is a tendency to fill a gap that tends to be filled with stupidity, often with alcohol and drugs. Similarly, children's abilities and natural talents are left undeveloped. According to youth monitoring, 10% of Estonian schoolchildren have not been in any kind of exercise or hobby during the last three years, which means that almost 30,000 children have been completely excluded from their activities of interest. This is mostly because of the parents'skinny wallet. On our envoy group's county visits, I have heard many sad stories about how talented children have been taken away from either the music school, the dance circle, or the ski training because the payment of the participation fee is beyond the control of a single mother or a parent of a large family. Sometimes childhood passes without a pleasant hobby because of transport problems or because the child's home is not in a position to do so. Often, exclusion leads to narrower horizons and lower skills than your peers, and ultimately to a poorer ability to cope in an independent life. Depending on the municipality, 30% to 60% of children are currently regular in some circles or in practice. It's obviously too little. The possibility of engaging in activities of interest must be a fundamental right for children, not a luxury product. The need for a decisive increase in the number of children who participate in the activities of interest has been mentioned in Estonian politics for ten years. Today, it can be said that the ice has finally melted, and in just over half a year's time, in September 2017, a support system for youth interest activities will be launched, which will provide EUR 6 million this year and EUR 15 million every year thereafter. The state places particular emphasis on three areas: culture, sport, natural sciences and precision. In the Riigikogu today's first-reading law on hobby education gives the stool a third foot. On the one hand, a young person develops at home and, on the other hand, while studying at school, the third leg is an education of interest where he can develop his natural inclinations, personality and creativity. The fact that the state places a strong hand in the education of interest makes the circles of interest primarily available to rural people, but of course, there is also funding for cities. The draft drawn up during the transport of Minister of Culture Indrek Saare supports a needs-based approach, leaving freedom of decision largely to the municipalities. You have to bet where the solution creates the best result, whether it is opening a new training group or a circle of interest or launching an additional school bus. Municipalities need to work closely together here so that the interests of children are at the forefront. There is no doubt that the proposed system will open the way to a better future for some young people with grades. The basis for children's appreciation and recognition needs to be extended to... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U226	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U227	... to give children more confidence and confidence. If a boy or a girl's head doesn't take math duties so well, let's let him stand out, for example, by jumping or on the run. The social democrats value, particularly with regard to the new model of education of interest, that it ensures a more equal opportunity for our children, a more equal start offer. He will help to ensure that all children grow up in decent conditions, receive the best possible education, with the opportunity to develop their talents. The Estonian state is as wealthy as educated and healthy citizens here. The state can influence the birth of children as a force, but much more it can support their upbringing. The Law on Interest Education and Youth Work is in line with the very influential steps the country has taken in recent years for the benefit of children and families with children and children and is about to take. Thanks to the significant increase in child benefits, the number of children living in both relative and absolute poverty is falling strongly. A livelihood fund, which started operating in January, alleviates the situation of many single - parent families. As early as July, the state will pay EUR 300 to families with between three and six children. Seven or more families raising children will then have an additional €400 allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U228	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask for a speech chair in Heidy Purga.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U229	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Every child and young person has the right to an education of interest, everyone has the right to free self-realization. One of the first and important documents that lays down the rights of the child is the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, to which Estonia joined in 1991. There are a number of important points that relate more directly or indirectly to the law on the amendment of the law to be discussed. For example, since the child must be provided with protection and care for his or her well-being. In addition, this convention also talks about the development of a child and the development of the potential of its abilities as perfect as possible. In our new times, there is a great deal of talk about lifelong learning, the diversity of education and the importance of acquiring different skills, so that each individual can apply his or her talents and pursue his or her desires as much as possible. In principle, any child has the right to realize his or her interest or to apply a special gift even if the normal school curriculum does not provide for it directly, even if there is no suitable school of interest or hobby or if his or her social status does not permit it in the vicinity of his or her place of residence. I recently read a story about a talented child who was a prominent trombone player for his youth. However, he could practice only at school, and he was not allowed to take it anywhere from school. At home, in a small social dwelling, the walls of which did not dampen sound, he was also unable to practice, even if he had a personal instrument. Thus, this young person could not cultivate his interest and talent according to his own abilities. The music teacher was very sorry for the loss of talent, and in the end, our country apparently lost an outstanding musician. Every child has the right to an education of interest and to exercise his or her gift, regardless of his or her social status. The topic of recreational education with the title '2000 kroons round money' was in the electoral programme of the Reform Party and a draft of this was passed by the Riigikogu as early as 2008 where, unfortunately, it could not move forward as a result of the economic downturn. But we kept pushing. The Reform Party was very happy when the coalition agreement signed in April 2015 made it one of the priorities of the government association ♪ the Reform Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union. For the sake of history, this is confirmed by the fundamentals of the formation of the government at the time and the programme of action of the government union. The topic of recreational education and activities was a very large part of the work of the Committee on Culture last year. According to the previously agreed plan, the members of the Committee on Culture were very active in the preparation of the draft. The Reform Party stands for an environment where there are plenty of opportunities to decorate leisure, where new and better ideas can be born for the lives of all of us. Our policy is based on simple liberal values such as the individual's freedom to decide for himself. Why am I saying this? Self-deciding on this subject, which has been discussed in this Chamber today in the context of the law amending this law, is of particular importance from the point of view of the children themselves. I hope that local authorities will also ask more of the children themselves what kind of community school or activities they are interested in in in order to protect the individual's and individual's freedoms. The new services provided should be inclusive and take into account the interests of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U230	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Central Party of March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U231	Honourable Chairman! Colleagues! It was already said here today that children are our future, and that is actually the case. Nobody can fight it, and whoever can, it's lying a little bit. The aim of the Youth Work Act, the Education Act of the Republic of Estonia and the Amendment to the Interest School Act is to improve the availability and quality of recreational education and activities in Estonia, which will hopefully provide a better future for all young people. A better future, that's the right word. There used to be this aforism that the more tricks you know, the easier it is to live. This is the sea of tricks in the field of recreational education, and as people develop from the age of three to their death, they need to learn more and more of these tricks so that they can generalize. Access to education in the field of interest. The bill contains very good numbers, which makes only joy: six million in 2017 and then 15 million each year. Support for recreational education and activities is made up of three parts. The first part is directly allocated to local authorities, the second part is intended to promote, advise and monitor cooperation between municipalities, and the third and smaller part remains in the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research and is intended to improve the quality of areas of interest through representative associations. Basically, everything is perfectly thought out and distributed, the circle of decision-makers is broad-based so that money can reach the right place and at the right time. Now the arguments that in the large city there is better access to recreational education. It's better, but it's more expensive. With your show 'Long recess' driving around Estonia, studying the possibilities of interest education in different places and, at the same time, relying on my long-term teacher experience, I can say that not everyone is stuck in money. There's still a lot of stuff about who's running it and why. If the money comes in, it's great. When there's no money, they still do it when a person has a big heart and knows why he does it. If this person is a teacher, a guide, a teacher of interest, then he will have only joy, great joy, if his work is recognised and helped to do it effectively and well. Let's take the exact sciences, for example, I myself am a chemist, if you want to deal with mathematics and physics, these are very resourceful and resourceful things. As director of the Art High School, I also know that art supplies are expensive things beyond reason. Meanwhile, what is art? If you want to paint, the squirrel's tail brush will cost you a fortune, you want to do the work of a wooden building, a decent scraper over your head, dear. Where do you get them from? Right now, there's a chance they can be worried. So a big, big, big step has been taken forward, but now there are three points. How broad is this decision, what are the priorities, how can you get your children off the computer? The computer has always been said to be not a basic tool, but a tool to achieve the goal. I mean, before a person has to be mentally, mentally, and physically ready, and then he can use a computer. After all, the designer has to figure out what he's doing first and then draw this thing up with AutoCAD or some other design program. He's faster, he doesn't have to draw by hand, he can handle the computer. These intercourses should be settled. Basically, the whole trick in this matter, where resources should be directed to maximise efficiency, are examples: coaches, school leaders, local government leaders, fanatics who deal with these things. Why not also bibliographers, if they can make this seemingly dry thing beautiful... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U232	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U233	... a meaningful, voluminous, imaginative science, then it is literally a complete America. It's exactly the same with other things. Sporting is not just muscle growing. The violin game in the hand of one person sings, the violin cries. Find these gifts, develop them, direct the resource there and look for examples! Look for those who take it forward, look for the masters, labs aren't always needed. Thank you. Power and strength!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U234	Krista Aru on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U235	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Good minister! I will not go over all the good and true words that have already been said about this bill. I would just like to emphasise a few things. This bill has been made for many years, the concept was developed by the previous government coalition. However, the idea that recreational education should be more important and valued throughout our entire school system began already in 1906. When Oskar Kallas stressed that all education must be intertwined with education and that an important component of education is certainly an education of interest. Therefore, I would have been very pleased to hear that this bill, which is important and necessary and which will certainly change the availability of activities of interest and education of interest, and I very much hope that it will also improve quality and increase diversity, will not be tried to cut such a political profile. It would have been very solid and it would still have been the right approach. What I really like about this bill is what the Minister said: local authorities are trusted. If we cannot trust local authorities in carrying out these tasks, then the functioning of this country, especially its promotion by leading from Tallinn, cannot be very promising. I would like to stress clearly one more point. It seems very right and wise, on the one hand, to put an education of interest and activities in youth work. On the other hand, recreational education, especially in science and science, is very often concentrated in schools. And in schools, this is more and more of a content, I think that this trend and development is very good, also related to what is taught in the school programme. There is its expansion, development, creative approach to, for example, chemistry, physics, mathematics. If we now place everyone under youth work, the community of hobby schools will have a natural fear that we will not reduce the importance of teachers, educators even further if the teachers of all recreational schools suddenly become workers in the field of youth work. These are issues that we should consider, while at the same time delighting in the possibilities of this law, in the improvement of accessibility and in the increase in diversity. I would very much like to support this moment that these schools are the providers of hobby education in all schools, they are the circles of activities or they are the regular schools of influence and quality, and the way a young person comes out of his or her school or hobby education, what he or she gets out of it, really depends primarily on this teacher, this teacher, this personality. So I very much hope, and the whole Group of the Free Party hopes, that this bill will not only contribute to the advancement of recreational education and activities as areas of youth work, but will also help to make sure that they remain part of education and lead to what is most important: becoming a good person, a smart person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U236	Raivo Põldaru on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U237	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, there is now a good bill in the Riigikogu, which everyone unanimously praises. Only it could have gotten to school a long time ago, like when I was in school. But what to do! In the meantime, some schools have been shut down, and there is now a great hope that, in large merged municipalities, the funds provided for in the bill will really be helpful and that there will be unpaid interest in schools. In my day, I even felt that it would have been easier for children to pursue an interest in education and participate in school if they had been able to hire people to do so. But I'm glad it's an opportunity, and support will help anyway. It is hoped that fewer young people will go to the shopping centers to chill out when this law is applied, and instead, they will find a good interest in the school. So great! I'm sure our party will support such a nice bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U238	There is no further wish for negotiations. I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 341. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 22 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U239	Our next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the External Action Service Act and the Civil Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Initiator waitress, Foreign Minister Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U240	Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the External Action Service Act and the Civil Service Act before you is quite technical in nature. It introduces drafting changes to the existing law aimed at making it more flexible to regulate the rate of increase of the external travel allowance for family members accompanying a staff member. At the same time, this change has quite tangible and positive consequences for foreign workers. The bill abolishes the percentages for the increase of the external mission fee for the child accompanying the staff member and the accompanying non-working spouse and provides for their establishment at the level of the Government of the Republic Regulation. This amendment is essentially in line with the general and public service wage policy, according to which wage regulation has been shifted from law to regulation. The changes relate to the plan to align the cost of living of the cities established by the Foreign Minister's regulation with the real cost of living between Tallinn and the sending cities. For the first time, the cost of living is calculated on the basis of the ECA International cost of living index. As a result of the reduction of the coefficients, the tax-free external travel fee paid to the staff member will be reduced to about one third of the current level. At the same time, the rateable salary of a staff member shall be increased by means of a declining external mission fee in such a way that the income from his salary and from his non-taxable external mission fee does not change. Since the increases in the external travel allowance paid for a member of the family cannot be converted into a servant's salary, in order to ensure that it does not fall significantly due to the lower coefficients, it is planned to increase the percentage of these increases by a government regulation. In the case of a non-working spouse of a diploma, this would be 70% instead of 30%, in the case of a non-working spouse of an administrative employee, 60% instead of 25%, and in the case of a child, 35% instead of 15%. Such percentages will maintain the increase in the number of external travel allowances paid for family members in the same order of magnitude as is currently paid in combination with higher coefficients and lower percentages. The reduction in the share of the external mission fee and the increase in the rateable share of the total income of the staff member on a long-term external mission will improve the social guarantees for those staff members, which is actually the main objective of the whole package of amendments. So far, the salaries of long-term foreign staff, in particular career diplomats, have been considerably lower than those of employees in a comparable position in Tallinn. Understandably, therefore, all pensions and benefits subject to social tax have been disproportionately low. The Act is scheduled to enter into force on 1 February 2018. This date of entry into force has been chosen taking into account our Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which will end on 31 December this year. So there is also a time reserve so that employees who have been extra-sponsored will return to Estonia before the Act enters into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U241	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U242	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This bill sounds so reasonable that I have a question as to why such a reform has not been made in the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U243	Thank you. This has actually been planned somewhat earlier. Well, it's mainly about the budget, isn't it? If the rateable share is increased, then the so-called "tax" share is added to the salary cost. In terms of the whole state budget, it is a zero sum because the state pays itself, but the 'free-to-use' part of the budget is reduced by that amount, because it is then actually allocated to the social budget. About the same route has also taken place, for example, in the payment of sports trainers' and judges' fees, where non-taxed scholarships are transferred to a real taxable salary, including to improve their social guarantees. This logic is universal and I am pleased that the country is on its way. The reason why we have only now come to this is also partly because our Presidency in the Council of the European Union has come forward in time. A number of ministries are known to send more officials to a foreign mission in connection with the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, where there are not many external missions in normal circumstances. As the earlier entry into force of the draft would have caused them additional burdens, including in terms of work, the draft is planned to enter into force after the end of our Presidency.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U244	No further questions. Thank you, Foreign Minister Sven Mikser! The Rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Vice-Chairman of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U245	Honourable speaker! (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Foreign Affairs really discussed this draft, which had been prepared for a long time, at its meeting on 17 January, where Foreign Minister Mikser gave a comprehensive overview of the content of the draft. I am not going to repeat all this because you have an overview of the contents in this Chamber. It was explained to the Commission that the purpose of the draft is to increase the proportion of the total remuneration of staff employed in the EEAS and to reduce the rate-free foreign travel allowance, so that the net income of the staff member is not reduced following this change. The proposed changes would increase the social guarantees for employees working in foreign affairs and would also equalise the social guarantees for employees working in the External Action Service and in Estonia. It was also mentioned in the Commission that the current arrangements would increase the external travel fee for each accompanying family member. Since it is not possible to recalculate the salary of the staff member, the Government of the Republic will now be authorised, with the proposed change before you, to set the percentages for the increase of the foreign posting fee for the family member. The original wish of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was to enforce the amendment from the beginning of this year, 1 January 2017. In preparing and negotiating the budget with other ministries, which in turn followed the country's budgetary strategy, and in the light of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of this year, the date of entry into force of the draft was postponed to 1 February 2018. The Commission had a specific question concerning the periodic review of the calculation of external travel charges. The Minister explained and replied that when calculating external travel charges, the exchange rate risks and the urban coefficients would be periodically reviewed. There was also a question of whether the DOD had been asked for an opinion. We have received assurances that this will be done during the draft procedure and that our Committee on Foreign Affairs will also have the opportunity to examine this opinion during the draft procedure. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be put on the agenda for the plenary session on 8 February, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 22 February. The Commission also appointed a waitress in front of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U246	The questions to the Commission's waitress are off because no one wants to ask. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 324 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 22 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U247	Our next item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Securities Market Act and the Financial Supervision Authority Act 359 initiated by the Government of the Republic. On behalf of the initiators, the Secretary of Finance, Sven Sester, will make a personal presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U248	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I give an overview of the draft law amending the Securities and Markets Act and the Financial Supervision Authority Act, which bears the number 359. The draft has been initiated to implement the rules of the EU Market Abuse Regulation in Estonia and to transpose into Estonian law a specific implementing directive. The Market Abuse Regulation lays down rules to prevent abuse of the securities market, and so this specific draft is aimed at protecting the orderly functioning and integrity of the securities market. The main objective of the draft is to update the competences and supervisory measures of the Financial Supervision Authority. To this end, we will step up supervision in market abuse matters. For this purpose, a number of changes have been made to the Securities Market Act and the Financial Supervision Authority Act. Firstly, the competences of the Financial Supervision Authority and the basis for issuing an injunction have been improved. For example, the Financial Supervision Authority may itself disclose the information required by law instead of the issuer of the security, if this is not done by the issuer. The inspection may also improve false information, which may affect the price movement of securities in the market. In particular, such intervention is necessary to protect investors who are increasingly investing across borders. Therefore, information may for example come from the supervisory authority of another country and from the issuer of another Member State. The Financial Supervision Authority can now react more quickly and flexibly to infringements. For example, an inspection may warn the public of an infringement. The aim is that investors do not make their investment decisions under false assumptions. Secondly, it intends to introduce an obligation for the Financial Supervision Authority to draw up and publish procedures for the processing of notifications of infringements. In essence, we will thus increase the transparency of the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority, as the Financial Supervision Authority will be obliged to provide information to the notifier on the progress of the processing process. The inspection shall also explain to the notifier his rights, such as the right to remain anonymous when notifying the infringement. The inspection shall also provide explanations to the notifier as to how its confidentiality is protected. The draft has also raised enforcement rates to the level of the Market Abuse Regulation. The maximum penalty rate is EUR 5 million for natural persons and EUR 15 million for legal persons (EUR 2 million and EUR 10 million under the current law). In addition, technical changes have been made. In particular, the Securities Market Act is intended to repeal the provisions transposed from the existing Market Abuse Directive, as the content of the Directive has been updated and the rules have been introduced as a regulation on market abuse in the European Union. The draft will enter into force as a general rule. That's what I'm gonna end up with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U249	Questions for the initiator. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U250	Honourable Chairman! Dear Minister, You said that this bill would increase the competences of the Financial Supervision Authority and help to respond to possible breaches of the securities markets. The Financial Supervision Authority itself has proposed to exclude from § 2 (1) those rules which restrict the autonomy, independence of the Financial Supervision Authority by considering that it is not appropriate to prescribe, at the level of the law, what the inspection must do in detail. The inspection would have seen that the rules could be more general, not so detailed. They cannot act under such detailed obligations, since it is reasonable to use other measures and instruments, depending on the specific circumstances, if listed in § 2 (1). Why haven't you taken the opinion of the Financial Supervision Authority into account? I don't see there's a reasonable reason why this has been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U251	Thank you for this very good question. I myself am ex officio Chairman of the Financial Supervision Authority Board, the Minister of Finance is automatically doing so. Of course, it is always in my interest that the Financial Supervision Authority should be able to exercise its rights in the best possible way. It is also very important that there be no misinterpretation, no misunderstandings. However, since we have a parliamentary state and now it is only the first reading of the draft, it is in the end that Parliament will adopt this law. Changes can also be made during the three readings. However, I would not be afraid to formulate the objectives and the ways in which these objectives are achieved as precisely as possible. It is certainly possible to hold a debate between the first and second readings, and I imagine that the Committee on Monetary Affairs will also address this issue separately. But so far we have seen that, if, on the one hand, the system has been described very accurately and, on the other hand, the toolbox for mechanisms has also been created, the situation is also better and more precisely fixed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U252	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U253	Good manager! Good minister! I also read with surprise the comments of the Financial Supervision Authority, where they point out that with this bill you want to make Estonia such a nice crime scene for securities characters, because the regulation has been partly transposed, but the penalties are very lenient. For example, there is a maximum of 1200 euros of forced money in Estonia for leaking inside information, but it is 5 million euros in the European Union. What is such gentleness and is there a plan to make Estonian residents a favourite place for financial crimes?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U254	Thank you. It reminds me now of the story of two people having a birthday party. One came out of the same birthday and said it was a hell of a birthday, but the other came out and said that a weird birthday wasn't interesting at all. I've told you a long story, and I've told you about the purpose of this bill. And then you come and tell me that it's interesting why everything gets so soft. Take the text out of the verbatim and see! Then you will see that this particular draft intends to increase the maximum penalty rate to EUR 5 million for a natural person and EUR 15 million for a legal person. So on the contrary, in the case of this draft, it is very clear that investor protection and the Financial Supervision Authority's instruments for investor protection are on the one hand, and that the maximum levels of forced money will increase in the event of possible infringements.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U255	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U256	Honourable Chairman! Dear Minister, I will continue with the question asked by the previous speaker. If you look at the statistics on these fines, there are really very few fines that have been applied in practice. As far as this bill is concerned at all, here these data are beautifully old. In fact, this draft should have been adopted as early as summer 2016. The bill has been standing somewhere in the meantime and the data has not been updated. For example, I ask that if only two administrative penalties were imposed in 2015 for market infringements, do you have any data that took place last year, 2016? I know there was a criminal case, but how many fines did the Financial Inspectorate apply last year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U257	Thank you. We can certainly provide you with specific data for the previous year. I don't want to start giving vague answers from this talking board right now. As you know, I am always prepared to respond more fully to the need for information, especially when it is not classified information, and this is not classified information. Information about the 2016 infringements will definitely be sent to you. Since, in the introductory part of your question, you also paid attention to the procedure for the draft, I would also comment on this once. In fact, these amendments were planned with the new Investment Services Directive, the so-called MiFID II transposition. The current situation is that supervisory requirements overlap with those in the legislation. The transposition deadline was the same, July 2016. However, the deadline for MiFID II transposition was postponed for a year and then the amendments to the Market Abuse Regulation had to be separated from this specific MiFID II draft. This was one of the reasons why the process took longer because it took a little more time to prepare the draft. However, I will certainly have the data for 2016 forwarded to you, there is no question at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U258	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. Financial Committee waitress Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U259	Mr President! The draft law amending the Law, the Securities and Markets Act and the Financial Supervision Authority Act 359 was discussed by the Finance Committee at its regular meeting on 24 January. The Minister of Finance and three officials from the Ministry of Finance were present. The presentation was exactly the same as the Minister's. Then there was a debate. The first question concerned the fact that this law had to enter into force on 1 July last year. It was clarified that the draft directive on the transposition of the Financial Instruments Directive was dealt with in one package, then the transposition of the directive was moved forward to the year, and then a separate document was needed from that draft. Clearly, new coordination circles came, etc., and that is why the process got a little longer. They asked if this would increase bureaucracy. I didn't have to. There was a question of what it looks like technically. The Minister replied that, from a long time ago, there was a corresponding English form in Europe, which would then be completed and transmitted in certain cases. There was also the question of when this directive was on the table and whether there was access to similar databases in other Member States. The answer was positive. At the end of the committee's discussion, four decisions were taken: to appoint a rapporteur for the committee here, to propose to the Riigikogu Bureau that the draft be sent to the Chamber today, 8 February, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 22 February. All decisions were taken by consensus. Another comment to this point: for adoption this bill requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. This is because there is a provision in the Financial Supervision Authority Act that is analogous to that of the Anti-Corruption Act. That's the reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U260	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? There aren't any. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 359 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 22 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U261	We will begin the first reading of the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government and other laws related to it. The rapporteur on behalf of the initiators is Ms Kaia Iva, Minister for Social Protection. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U262	Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The pending bill No 360 regulates the handling of children who have committed offences. The purpose of the draft is to ensure that children receive assistance, regardless of whether they have committed an offence, and that children who have already committed the offence are dealt with in the most effective way possible. The draft amends four issues: firstly, access to the social rehabilitation service for a child; secondly, regulation of the closed child care service; thirdly, access to the conciliation service for a child; fourthly, repealing the Juvenile Influences Act, i.e. the abolition of juvenile committees. The social rehabilitation service is a state-funded complex service, in which at least three specialists offer assistance to the child in cooperation: psychologist, physiotherapist, logoped, doctor, nurse, actionrapeut, creative therapist, special pedagogue. For children, access to this service has been one of the bases so far and will continue to be when the child is disabled. The second basis so far has been that the child has committed an offence and has been directed to a social rehabilitation service by the Juvenile Commission. The draft removes the presumption of an offence. Instead of the children who committed the offence, access to social rehabilitation services will be granted to children who have major welfare deficiencies and for whom the implementation of previous aid measures has not been sufficient. The child is directed to the service by the local government, which must assess the child's needs anyway. The Social Insurance Board makes the final decision on the takeover of the fee by the state. This will help to ensure that this complex rehabilitation service is not overburdened with cases that could also be solved by simpler measures at the local government level. Changes in the provision of a social rehabilitation service mean that a child who has the greatest material need for it can access the service, regardless of whether or not that child has committed an offence. This will help, among other things, to prevent child offences more successfully. However, there are even more extreme cases where even complex services such as social rehabilitation are not enough. It must be said that the conduct of the child poses a lasting and significant threat to his or her own life, health or development, or to the life or health of other persons, and that no action has been possible to remedy this situation. For example, even in case of repeated motivation, the child may fail to attend the service, continue harming himself or others, etc. In such cases, the draft also provides for regulation of an extremely closed childcare facility. In this respect, the service provider shall have the right to limit the freedom of the child, to the minimum necessary and for a minimum period of time. All activities with the child and his or her family must be aimed at improving the child's situation as quickly as possible so that the restriction of his or her freedom can be lifted, the child can return home and he or she will be assisted there. At present, this freedom-restricting service has the right to prove to be a school of pupils in need of special educational conditions, or the College of Education of Maarjamaa (the former Special School of Tapa and Kaagvere), where the child can be referred to by the Juvenile Commission. A child who has committed an offence is being sent there now. In addition, the child's freedom may be restricted in the framework of a 24-hour special care service, but this applies only in cases of serious mental illness. The regulation of special care is actually designed for adults and is not adapted for children. In practice, however, there are cases where an offence is not diagnosed because of a serious mental disorder, but the child's situation is so serious that he or she can only be assisted by restricting his or her freedom. At present, these children are either left without assistance or their freedom is restricted without the right legal basis. The Chancellor of Justice has repeatedly pointed out at his visits that the children's safety centre in Tallinn and the youth treatment and rehabilitation centre in Jõhvi restrict the freedom of children present there without a legal basis, but such a service is necessary for them and a legal basis must be created for this. The legal basis created by the draft act does not make the referral to the services of a closed childcare facility conditional on an offence, disability or diagnosis, but the court decides on the orientation of the child on the basis of its factual consistent behaviour, considering in each case whether the benefits of restricting the freedom of the child outweigh its potential harm and risks to the child. The financing of the closed childcare facility is provided for in the draft budget. The third amendment concerns the conciliation service provided by the victim support unit of the Social Insurance Board. It is also a service financed by the State. A conciliation service means that the victim and the perpetrator, with the help of an impartial mediator, are jointly seeking a solution to the case. This will have a positive impact both on the prevention of further offences and on the satisfaction of the victim. Until now, the conciliation service has only been applied in criminal cases. The amendment to the bill also provides an opportunity to offer it for misdemeanours and children under 14 years of age. The amendment to the fourth draft is the repeal of the Minor Sanctions Act, i.e. the cessation of the activities of juvenile committees. In order to help the child and to prevent further offences, the most effective intervention is, on the one hand, the principle of rehabilitation, i.e. involving the victim, I have just mentioned the conciliation service and, on the other hand, the in-depth action aimed at helping the child, by solving his or her most profound problems. The format of juvenile commissions, where children have to report for their actions in front of the adult panel, is not well suited to achieving either of these objectives. Many specialists in these committees have done a very good job of helping children who have arrived, in spite of a somewhat inappropriate format, but in the future they will be able to do so much better and with more flexible methods. The new Child Protection Act, which came into force in 2016, also contains, more clearly than before, the obligation on local authorities to provide all the help needed to all children and the obligation on the state, in particular the Social Insurance Board, to support the local government on a daily basis. The Child Protection Act does not provide for a list of restricted measures, such as the limited list of sanctions in the current Minor Influences Act. Each local authority must develop the services and other measures that are currently the best and necessary and, if necessary, find a suitable measure for the child among the national measures. The child should be assisted according to the principle of networking, in cooperation with all professionals. In doing so, it is up to each local authority to decide on the form in which these decisions are to be taken. Each local authority may provide for a mandatory regime that certain decisions are made not by one employee alone, but by the respective committee. An example is the decision to apply to the court to refer the child to a closed child institution. The Child Welfare Act provides, as one recommendation, that a local government may set up a child-family committee. We are working together with the Child Protection Unit of the Social Insurance Board this year to ensure that, if the networking between specialists has been successful in some juvenile committees, this cooperation will continue in the form of a committee for children and families or in other forms. From a child's point of view, the big difference is that he or she is not invited to report on what he or she has done in front of the adult panel, but can confide in his or her concerns to the child welfare officer alone. In the Committee on Children and Families, as a team of specialists, the focus is only on how to solve the child's problems and help him or her, not on how to solve his or her offence. This task remains with specialists in the police, in the prosecutor's office and in the provision of conciliation services. It should also be taken into account that the existing system of juvenile commissions is built on the basis of rural governments and, in a situation where the Government of the Republic is planning to put an end to the activities of rural governments, this system could not continue to function in its current form anyway. In summary, the amendments proposed in the draft act will help to ensure that the child who committed the offence becomes more fit for purpose. Each party can focus on finding solutions to the consequences of a child's actions or on solving the child's deeper problems according to its mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U263	Questions for the initiator. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. The current closed childcare facilities work under the Ministry of Education, but in the bill I see something about the Social Insurance Board. Is it meant that more of these institutions will be created? Are existing schools not enough? And if there's something more, what are they? Aren't they schools, but some other institution that the Social Insurance Board is going to deal with?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U265	The current schools will certainly remain and continue to work as schools. However, more services are probably needed. Currently, this service is provided without having a proper legal basis. Offered because there are children in need of help. In general, although the service provider primarily provides a closed childcare facility, it also provides the child with learning opportunities. This is usually done in cooperation with a nearby school. So the educational needs of the children will surely be met there. But these institutions are not meant to work as schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U266	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U267	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Thanks for the presentation, but it slimmed the pulpit: services, format, measures, panel. After all, the actual content is the abolition of juvenile committees and the launch of the so-called conciliation service and so on. I read that note twice. To be honest, we could talk about all this in a much simpler way. Please tell us in simpler language how sure you are that losing these committees is a good idea! And has it been carried out in some regions, in some counties as a pilot project to make sure that this is the right way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U268	Children's rights cannot be restricted in the context of a pilot project. When we talk about the need to channel children to a closed childcare facility, this is not a pilot project. It can only be decided by the court and only in this way can it be done. Of course, as I mentioned, our juvenile affairs committees are different. They have modified their work patterns according to what they think is better. Of course, local governments have acted differently so far, trying to find the best options, but the level has been rather uneven. As has already been said, the Commission on juveniles currently has two functions: on the one hand, it must be heard and, on the other hand, perhaps interrogated, but it should also offer solutions and punish. These functions just don't connect.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U269	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U270	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Speaking to social workers and child protection professionals, I have heard the complaining that queues are very long in those educational establishments where young people who have gone into trouble with their lives can be directed. What kind of information room do you live in, or what kind of knowledge do you have of how long the queues are in these schools or closed childcare facilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U271	As far as education is concerned, I cannot say how long this particular order is. However, I do know that there is a need for this already for the current service providers that provide this service in the field of social work. So what exactly is the picture going to be, how many children there are, and whether the service could start to decline over time because the intervention is timely and we are not waiting for the offence to start dealing with the problem, that is what time will show.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U272	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U273	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question, too, is driving towards the regulation of a closed childcare facility. The current Act on Minor Influences provides that the Minority Commission has nine measures to influence a child who has committed an offence. The most difficult of these is to direct pupils in need of special educational conditions to school. The new draft states that the decision to refer the child to this new service must be taken by the court. I think it's a little dilemma here. We want to save children as much as possible, and it seems to me that the juvenile commission was still a softer measure than the fact that we refer the child to one service through the courts. Is this the right way to go?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U274	Thank you for your question. For a child, I think they are both very special and extreme. After all, the possible consequences are very severe for him. However, the general principle should be that we restrict freedom through court. Of course, all these procedures, this whole process must be child-friendly and as damaging as possible. As I said, the process must not traumatise the child and cause him harm. I think that this option is so designed that children's rights are also taken into account. At the moment, the Ministry of Justice is also preparing a law on how this process will be regulated. I mean, restricting children's rights. It will soon come into Riigikogu proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U275	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U276	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The Association of Estonian Rural Governments has clearly written that local authorities are not yet ready to abolish juvenile commissions. You spoke very nicely about how many specialists would be needed to really do the preventive work with children, from the heart, and to help them properly. Now, if these young girls and boys are to be sent to that college of education in Marymaa, an old-named Kaagvere school, who will decide on it, and how will this process take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U277	The Association of Municipalities has, as a matter of fact, taken a twofold view. They have admitted, however, that the Committee on Minorities is not a very good format and has not justified itself every time. On the other hand, they have been of the opinion that the change in law results in a considerable additional burden on the municipality. You yourself referred to these specialists. In fact, all these tasks still exist in the local government, we do not impose any new obligations on the municipality. Just the whole decision-making process is getting closer to the local government and therefore to the child. Freedoms will be restricted by the court. Freedom is not restricted without a court, other decisions go to the local government level. This prevention and preventive work has also had to be carried out by the municipality with the involvement of these employees at all times.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U278	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U279	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I want to take advantage of this opportunity to give the greatest thanks to all those members of the juvenile committees who have been doing this work for a very long time. For example, in the county of Tartu, the best specialists and cooperation partners have gathered each week for 19 years, whose desire is to really help these children. Exactly the same has been done in Viljandi County and many other counties. So thank you very much to those who have done this work and helped these children to cope! It's not like there wasn't anyone or anything before, and then there's gonna be something. The question, however, is that the topic of minors' committees is also written in several county newspapers, how much the Ministry has discussed with the Estonian Association of Social Work and Child Protection employees. Have they been told how this work and the role of local governments are actually imagined?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U280	Thank you. There will certainly be a further debate on how everything works, what these networks could be, and what the best practices of organising this work will play a very important role in the child protection units of the Social Insurance Board. Last year, their work was aimed at information, networking in the area of early childhood education. This year, the aim is to develop cooperation with the health care system, to do information work. Their role will also be to develop best practices and guidance materials, to introduce them and to advise local authorities at every stage. If you look at the work of child protection units at one place or another since the beginning of the year, you can see that their links with local authorities vary from region to region. It's very good at times, but there's definitely room for improvement. I believe that improving the work of child protection units in this area will also give the necessary strength to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U281	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U282	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, The draft law should enter into force at the beginning of next year. We have municipal elections in the autumn and all mergers should be made by autumn. How do you assess whether these new municipalities will be able to adapt to this new system in such a short time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U283	That's what it's meant to be. They are trying to achieve that by the end of the year, there will be no transition to the new year. If there is a problem with the juvenile Affairs Commission, the work must be completed before the end of the year. Of course, no transition in the light of the merger is painless, that is quite clear. Our hope is, however, based precisely on the fact that during the year child protection units have been in good cooperation with local authorities. Clearly, these problems, which are added and to which we need to look again, are more likely to be more difficult. After all, milder problems have always been handled nicely. There must also be a great deal of trust in the Child Protection Unit of the Social Insurance Board, who must come to the aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U284	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U285	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I have the same problem that Mr Kersna was talking about. Several things coincide: the implementation of administrative reform and the closure of juvenile committees. Explain to me or to all of us what this so-called conciliation service is going to look like? It still exists. Speak English, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U286	Thank you for your question. The usual reconciliation work is done with children and young people every day, that is quite clear. This is what a mother, father, teacher or tutor does, who tries to find good solutions, how a child can understand what he has done wrong, or how someone who has been harmed could forgive, or how a bad act can be corrected. It all goes naturally. However, there is also a state-funded conciliation service, which goes beyond what is normally done every day. The order should be that, first of all, the same customary reconciliation between children and young people, and then what comes from the service provided by the state and organised by a professional who finds a way in which the victim will be satisfied and who has done something wrong will realise that he has done bad, that this is not the case, and will draw his own conclusions from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U287	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U288	Thank you. Good minister! The work of the panel of seven minors shall be coordinated by the Secretary of the Commission. Someone has been given a specific task of coordinating this work: making sure that specialists cooperate and share information. If we now repeal the law on minor leverage, we will repeal it, then the child will be replaced by a whole series of things, as we have heard here from your report. It appears that these specialists should continue to cooperate in the future once these committees have completed their work, only in another form. What does this other form look like? Who is responsible for promoting this cooperation? Someone has to be responsible for this. When there's no one in charge, things tend to fade away. How is it implemented and whose responsibility does it remain?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U289	Thank you. As I said, there are two sides to the game, the responsibility falls apart on two sides. One part of the responsibility is for the court to bear, and it is relatively simpler and clearer there are limits and regulation of the law before the eyes. The second part falls to the local government, the local government, and there is a regulated entity responsible for the field. As a general rule, the child protection worker is responsible for the cooperation, be he or she named one, another or a third name. Helmen Kütt also referred before to the cooperation and networking that has been carried out on juvenile committees. However, the cooperation between these members of the Commission and other specialists has not been limited to the tasks of the Commission alone. This work should and will be done with children and young people before they reach the Commission. So the responsibility lies with the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U290	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U291	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It's a very simple question. Listening to your presentation and reading a little bit of this bill, the question arose where local governments, even if they are connected and larger, will find enough competent people to play this role. Where, for example, do they find a creative therapist and a logotherapist? For now, it's like the theme is whether or not logos reach every part of the country school, etc. Would you mind commenting on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U292	Yes, even in the areas you mentioned, the need for service providers in Estonia is greater than there is to offer them. But right now, there are people out there to work on this network, and these specialists aren't going anywhere. We'd rather have no service at this first level. As you mentioned, perhaps smaller schools and early childhood education are struggling, where it is still the most needed to address problems as early as possible. That is an important question. But all the specialists that exist now will continue to be implemented. With this legislative amendment, they will not be reduced. However, the work of the network will be taken to the local government level. Our goal could still be that local authorities do the work that is closest to them, and child welfare work is one of those. They themselves see the state of things and are best placed to organise the work. I repeat: the involvement of professionals who have done this difficult work so far will continue to exist, and child protection units will also contribute to more complex problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U293	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U294	Thanks again. Minister, I will take this opportunity to ask you such a question. Northern neighbours face the fact that the need for logo beets in schools has grown exponentially, repeating. The reason is that communication in smart devices has taken away young people's ability to speak and likely to make amends. That must be why this reconciliation service is essential. Does Estonia also have this problem and, if so, does it have anything to do with the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U295	It doesn't touch directly, this bill regulates other matters. But, of course, the need for support services, including logo beet, in the education and social sectors has grown. The reason you mentioned that less is said and less is read in such a real text is, in any case, correct, clear. But this bill does not deal directly with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U296	Thank you, Minister of Social Protection Kaia Iva! The Commission's rapporteur is the chairman, Helmen Kütt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U297	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and related amendments to other laws 360 before the first reading at its meeting on 16 January. Kaia Iva, Minister of Social Protection, Elise Nikonov, Head Specialist of the Children and Families Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Kersti Berendsen-Koržets, Legal Adviser to the Legal and Human Resources Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs were invited. As the Minister has already given a very thorough overview of this draft law and of the proposed amendments, I will focus only on the issues that were not asked by the members of the Social Affairs Committee or by other colleagues in this Chamber today. Most of the questions that sounded in this Chamber today also arose in the Committee on Social Affairs. It is perfectly understandable that the concern for children who have problems is great for all the members of the Commission. There were questions about the price and volume of rehabilitation services and closed child care services. In response, it was explained that the price of the rehabilitation service would initially remain the same, but the possibility of increasing it in the future would be discussed. One concern is that, according to the analysis, there is no child protection worker in every municipality and often, based on best practice, it is the Junior Commission for which the social worker prepares the paperwork and where the child ends up. We were assured that, as a result of the administrative reform, a stronger social network would also be expected to protect children. And, of course, the child protection units at the Social Insurance Board have a role to play, which must ensure that this service is the same across Estonia. One question that I am a little more specific about was the cooperation of specialists in another form. To clarify so much, §17 (2) of the Child Protection Act actually gives the opportunity, if necessary, to form a committee for children and families as an advisory body to the local municipality. The administrative cooperation with the Police and Border Guard Board and children who have committed offences are very closely associated with child protection workers and the social network at all. The Commission's debate was long. We have stated that we will continue this debate. As the Minister pointed out, the Ministry of Justice has developed a draft law amending the Penal Code and related amendments to other laws, which is currently in the coordination circle of ministries. As these drafts are very closely linked, we will continue our discussions by looking at the two together. The Committee on Social Affairs took the following decisions: to propose that 360 be placed on the plenary agenda today, 8 February, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be 10 working days, which is 22 February at 5.15 p.m. and to appoint a speaker in front of you as rapporteur. Since we did social policy there, all the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U298	Members of the Riigikogu, I would like to remind you that the Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides an opportunity to put two questions within the framework of the debate on one draft. I am very grateful to you! Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U299	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, Did the Commission come up, or did anyone notice that only a few of the proposals of the Association of Municipalities and Cities were taken into account? However, the role of juvenile committees is now left to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U300	Yeah, we did come up with that table of consideration and rejection. This came up because it had to be discussed which tasks local authorities could guarantee, which were not. However, it was found that neither the union of municipalities nor the union of cities were in fact one hundred percent opposed to this legislative amendment. They are concerned that the loss of this single link will not impair the quality of the service as a whole. The position of the Ministry is that since the Child Protection Act has been in force for one year, the child protection units at the Social Insurance Board have helped to do this work. These are units for coordinating and advising social workers and child protection workers. It is also very important that the Ministry of Social Affairs explains everything to local governments in cooperation with the Estonian Association of Social Work. So it was really brought to attention. We discussed proposals that had been decided either 'partly accounted for' or 'fully accounted for'. Specifically, as such, no member of the Commission raised this problem, but concerns were expressed on a number of issues that dealt with the very important issue you raised.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U301	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U302	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have worked in this area for a very long time and you know one thing and one thing, you actually know all the bottlenecks in this area, and you also know what is good. When you process this bill, do you see that we are in all of our development - I also mean the thinking world, the value system and so on - really ready to go to this new system from 1 January next year? After all, we talked today about the lack of logos and social pedagogies, and now there is still a need for conciliators. Please state your personal opinion!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U303	Thank you for that question. In fact, there are so many of these questions in the Commission, and in this Chamber today too, because we cannot go on in the same way. When the rural governments disappear, the committees of minors working for the rural governments come to the municipalities. For example, the merged municipalities or municipalities together decide to set up such a committee within a county. Secondly, it is very easy to call a child in trouble a minor offender. In fact, it may be a child in distress and in this case a punitive measure may not be helpful. Sometimes a child has gone on a criminal road because of an empty stomach, for example, that's what's been stealing him from the store. We can't keep doing that. I believe in the new Child Protection Act, which has worked for a year. However, the relevant competence centres and the administrative reform are working at the Social Insurance Board. I will take the example of Viljandi rural municipality, which is made up of four free-willed municipalities. If only two municipalities had a child protection worker there before, then this assistance is now also guaranteed in the two former municipalities where there was no child protection worker before. However, the heart still hurts because each reform will initially lead to setbacks. But they are learned from them. When implementing the reform, you must not throw the baby out with the washing water. It is very important to recognise the people who have done this work so far. I have already indicated that in the county of Tartu, the juvenile commission has been together every week for 19 years. These are big-hearted people from the police, these are child protection workers who have done this job as best as they can and can. Thank them very much and acknowledgment! And I guess these people aren't going anywhere. They'll probably be hunted down again, and in a good way, they'll be put to work in a new form.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U304	No further questions. Thank you, Helmen Hunter! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The 360 first reading of the bill is complete. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 22 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U305	The first reading of the draft law amending the Tobacco Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The rapporteur is Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U306	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the tobacco law initiated by the government. Last year, we remembered that the so-called Tobacco Directive of the European Parliament and the Council was transposed into the Estonian legal area by two draft laws amending the Tobacco Act. In their original version, there were also those amendments that are here before you today in this draft, but we took them out of the draft at the level of the government after coordination, in order to speed up the procedure for the draft directive to be transposed by the Riigikogu. All non-essential provisions of the Directive were removed from those two drafts. They were put into a separate bill by a government decision, and this separate bill has now come before you. With this third draft, during the work of my minister for health for a year and a half, we will end government initiatives on tobacco policy for the foreseeable future. This draft states in particular the implementation of the most important measures set out in the Green Paper on Tobacco. Now, a brief reminder. According to data for 2014, the share of everyday smokers in Estonia was 22%. According to 2014 data, 7.9% of school students had tried smoke, with 3% of them smoking every day. According to data from the same year, 18.5% of school pupils were drawn by water pipes. In general, we also stand out in the European Union by young people starting smoking very early. In addition to these data, the increase in the popularity of electronic cigarettes is also a cause for concern. While in 2012 10% of the population had tried e-cigarette at least once, in 2014 this figure was 15%. According to 2014 data, 36% of boys and 28% of girls had tried e-cigarette at least once. It is likely that the 2016 statistics published by the Institute for Health Development at the end of March this year will show even higher figures reflecting the popularity of electronic cigarettes among minors. A number of European Union countries have also implemented additional standards to protect public health, in addition to the standards established by the Tobacco Directive. In this way, too, we have discussed possible additional restrictions on the Green Paper on tobacco and reached this document, which, if I am not deceived by memory in 2014, was also approved by the government. It was the government the other day. According to this document, we hope to reduce the share of adult daily smokers from the current 22.1% to 18.3% by 2025. At the same time, as you know, many countries have already set far more ambitious targets. It has also been said that some countries want to become tobacco-free. We are not so ambitious and will not be planning this in the near future, but these important changes, which are in the draft, will certainly help to achieve the target we set, as has been said, of 18.3% of daily smokers by 2025. Now, let's get closer to the bill. First of all, three important changes. Of course, their main objective is to protect minors, i.e. to reduce the number of future smokers, as reducing the number of current smokers is a beautiful challenge. At least national measures have little impact on this. The first of three amendments is the ban on the display and presentation of tobacco products and related products at retail outlets. Preventing the use of cigarettes and other such products among minors is essential. In addition to strengthening information campaigns and monitoring measures, it is also important to reduce the attractiveness of these products and to redesign the environment in such a way that it is easy for the minor to make decisions for his or her health. The social environment should therefore be designed in such a way that tobacco consumption or smoking is at all unattractive. We know that many of our children start smoking when they are 11 to 12 years old, and so the country is obliged to take additional measures to protect their health. The link between the display of tobacco products and the start of smoking of minors has now also been internationally demonstrated. A similar link is shown by recent studies for e-cigarettes. In most cases, the passionate display of these products is alongside products of interest to children, such as gums, sweets, etc. This means that children's exposure to the display of tobacco products in shops is almost inevitable. The ban on tobacco advertising has been in force since 1997 and we have also restricted promotion. This is why the display at retail outlets has become the most important marketing method for the tobacco industry, and in the WHO Framework Convention, the display is considered to be one form of advertising. We haven't done that so far. Of course, the impact of advertising on young people has been convincingly demonstrated. In addition to promotion at points of sale, products are often displayed directly at the height of people's eyes, which, of course, is not random. The distribution of products in retail trade is not random. It is known that the vision of packages contributes to impulse purchases, especially for occasional smokers, smokers, quitters or people trying to quit. It has been argued that the effective display of tobacco products will increase their sales by as much as 12 to 28%. Of course, tobacco product packaging itself is also an effective marketing tool. The packages must be marked with "ugly images" as from 20 May of last year, but it has been pointed out that the design of the packaging is shiny colours, branding on the packaging etc. reduces the impact of the pictorial warnings. Therefore, a number of countries, such as Australia, the United Kingdom, Hungary and France, have decided to introduce a standard packaging, i.e. a uniform neutral packaging, where most of the surface is covered by a pictorial warning and the brand or brand is represented by a neutral fund. In Estonia, we have chosen an alternative, i.e. banning the display of tobacco products and the presentation of trademarks. We do not prohibit the branding of tobacco on the package and its design, but we do not prohibit its presentation. On the basis of the feedback received from us, we have offered an exception at government level to specialised shops, to ships operating on an international route and to shops located in the enclosed territory of the airport and port. Another important change is the equalisation of electronic cigarettes with tobacco products. Electronic cigarettes are products similar to tobacco products and similar products should be treated equally. Electronic cigarettes are marketed as a safer alternative to tobacco products and a tool to stop smoking, according to distributors themselves. It is true that e-cigarette may not pose as much a health risk as a common tobacco product, but it is certainly not 100% safe. The claim that it is a health product or a revolution in public health is certainly not the basis. E-cigarette can also cause nicotine dependence and may also contain other health harmful compounds which may also occur during heating or electronic treatment. Also a nicotine-free e-cigarette liquid may contain substances that are not safe for health. For example, electronic processing is known to produce certain particles that can move into the lungs and other internal organs. In e-cigarette liquids, more than 7500 different condiments are used, the combined effect of which has not been studied. Many of them are food colours that are safe when used as food, but frequent inhalations may pose a health risk. In addition, different tastes have been shown to be attractive for children and young people, and this is the main reason why young people start using these products. The draft therefore proposes amendments to ban tobacco-free tastes in e-cigarette liquids. We have done so when transposing the Tobacco Directive in the case of cigarettes, providing for a short transitional period for menthol cigarettes in accordance with the Directive. Now we want to do the same for e-cigarette liquids. Studies have shown that starting to smoke e-cigarettes, minors will soon start using tobacco products. Studies have not confirmed that e-cigarettes help to quit smoking. Rather, these products are used in parallel or as a substitute product, while the person does not smoke, e-cigarette is still addicted. Different flavors also do not encourage cessation of consumption. The international approach to e-cigarettes is clearly aimed at tightening the requirements by equalising them with tobacco products. Thus, most Member States of the European Union have banned their use in public places, like smoking. It has been pointed out that using e-cigarettes helps minors to view smoking as normal. When the Tobacco Directive was transposed, most countries introduced national distance sales in addition to cross-border distance sales. In Estonia we did not do this, and for a very simple reason: we separated domestic distance sales from the bill that was before the Riigikogu at the time, because there were no direct national distance sales in the directive. With this draft, we also want to ban national distance selling. We believe that products that are harmful to health need not be so easily and conveniently accessible that they are brought to your home. But the main thing is, of course, that it is very difficult to enforce the ban on the sale of minors, as minors' access to online shops is completely free when ordering these products. The third amendment is the strengthening of monitoring. It should be particularly effective to grant the right to a control transaction to the Tax and Customs Board and to a police officer, with the right to involve young people from the age of 16 as appropriate. This will enable the Tax and Customs Board to monitor more effectively than has been the case so far, especially in the case of the sale of illegal lip tobacco, allowing smugglers to be identified and held accountable. Once the amendment enters into force, the police officer will be able to monitor more effectively the sale of tobacco products and related products to a minor by carrying out control purchases which are not available today. A similar provision has been included by the government in the draft amendment to the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act that reached you. It is, of course, a good idea to provide for a transitional period for the entry into force of the law, as it requires certain changes in the activities of companies, especially traders who have to restructure their tobacco exhibits a little. We have foreseen that the points that require this could enter into force on 1 January 2019. I also note that this is, to a large extent, a 'technical regulation', which means that the European Commission must be informed. The notification has been made and now the waiting period until 14 March is also expected, so it is not appropriate to adopt the draft before it, but in the meantime it is possible to continue this procedure under the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U307	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U308	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! That's the question I've come up with. 'The visible display of the product in question and the presentation of that trade mark at the point of sale of the retail trade of the product or of the product related to the tobacco product shall be prohibited, with the exception of... ' What does that mean? So how do you sell cigarettes in a store? Is it under the counter, covered in some kind of cloth, or what does that mean you can't be seen?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U309	That's what it means. It's either under the counter or covered in cloth. There are likely to be other options. For the people of the Social Affairs Committee, a ministry official has shown pictures of other countries how this can be organised. We have already seen some of these activities in the distribution network without the relevant regulation. The large boxes of cigarette packs that are in large shops above the buyers' heads have been turned upside down, so they are seen by the seller, not by the customer. The exact way to make the goods out of sight, the country doesn't write down, the merchant can decide for himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U310	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U311	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Perhaps you can explain a little about the expression 'product of tobacco'. By reading both the draft and the explanatory memorandum, the concept is vague. Is this also meant, for example, matches, lighters, ceramic ashtrays, or a pipe - shaped child soap bubble blower?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U312	No, I don't. I'll start from a distance. In general, cigarette smoking regulations have gradually become quite harsh globally over the last two decades. The WHO has been carrying this process globally for a long time, but some decades ago, national regulations on tobacco policy have also succeeded in introducing quite identical and one-way changes. The latest amendment, of course with the greatest impact, is the same one of the European Union's Tobacco Directive, which entered into force on 20 May 2016. This means that countries have gradually tightened the consumption of classical tobacco products. For example, indoor smoking has been banned, promotional restrictions have been tightened, such as advertising and sponding, and excise duty has also increased the price of these products. Of course, this has had an impact on the global tobacco industry and, of course, it has not had a positive impact. In this context, where the tobacco industry has seen that their market tends to dry out as countries tighten regulation for public health purposes, they have embarked quite enthusiastically on product development and have brought on the market a wide range of new products that differ from classic tobacco products at so many important points, and this is an additional plus for manufacturers whose sales are, as a rule, not very regulated in the countries. E-cigarette is a very good example of this. When it came to the market in Estonia, its sale was essentially completely unregulated. If I remember correctly, the Estonian National Opera demonstrated at its concert events the names of e-cigarette importers or dealers, which were essentially promotional. It was widely advertised and very youth-friendly. Last year, our regulation caught up with it, and now with this draft, we are going to take another step. For manufacturers, however, e-cigarettes are already yesterday, and now completely new tobacco products have emerged. For example, cigarettes have emerged that are not on fire and are heated. This is a new product development of a particular manufacturer. There are dozens of such innovations, the idea being broadly to tackle the tightening of national regulations by bringing new products to the market that have not yet been regulated for sale. For our part, with national regulation, we have sought to do what I think is very right: we basically regard all forms of smoking-like activities, both in terms of impact and in terms of'social culture', in terms of smoking. It's so that there's no temptation to look for holes to pass the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U313	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U314	Thank you. Good minister! What happened to the draft law amending the Tobacco Act is quite peculiar. Even before the Social Affairs Committee was able to put it on the table, we had our mailboxes full of opinions from different parties. Two law firms have carried out a legal analysis of this and one of them has come to the conclusion that the ban on the presentation of tobacco products and related exhibits and trademarks may be contrary to the Constitution. But that's it. I also asked you in the Committee on Social Affairs about exceptions to the ban on display. Three exceptions have been made. Why are they still made? You claimed that you did not support these exceptions. Then perhaps you can explain why exemptions have been made for ships, aircraft and special stores? If we ban it, maybe we can ban it anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U315	Thank you. As far as legal analyses are concerned, they have indeed been carried out. I can say that at least as many, if not more, have been received by Mr Koka in the Economic Commission for the Amendment of the Alcohol Act, and another area where legal opinions are also received is the sale of medicines. It is clear that if there is a market where strong parties are active and where there are sufficiently large amounts of money, professional legal advice is usually sought to promote their interests, which is not a bad thing. Now to your question. Indeed, we have received feedback from the airport, we have been approached by the port, we have also been approached by other parties who have argued that, as they are a specific situation, the general regulation should not apply to them. As far as specialised shops are concerned, in particular cigar rooms and other places where, for example, the application of the ban on display is indeed questionable. A man goes to a cigar shop, but no cigars can be seen, just one big wall in the way. Why do you need a store like this? No one is likely to be able to convince people who knowingly go to a cigar store that they don't smoke. They're probably smoking anyway. The point of the ban is that other people, especially minors, would not be exposed to the display of tobacco products. As regards the port and airport shops, the argument put forward by the parties was that, firstly, there are very few shops in Estonia and that they would be affected disproportionately by the ban. Secondly, most of the goods sold by these shops are meant for foreigners, which is why this is not the purpose of protecting the health of the Estonian people. That was the arguments, and the government thought they could be granted this exception. However, as I said in the Committee on Social Affairs and I say here too, it is undoubtedly also important to keep our country's guests healthy. So if the Riigikogu wants to change it, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U316	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U317	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I'm starting with the protection of public health that sounded a few seconds ago. Do you not see the danger that, if the excise duties on e-cigarettes and cigarettes are equalized, the appreciation of e-cigarettes will cause these liquids to be mixed themselves? This may pose a pretty serious risk to the health of smokers who start interfering with them. Don't you see the danger?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U318	Thank you. Rather, I dare to doubt that people are starting to mix these liquids themselves. There is probably a higher risk that they will be imported and sold on the black market from other countries without paying excise duty. But this question goes beyond the limits of this bill. I know that the Ministry of Finance will shortly hand over to the Riigikogu the draft on tobacco excise, which aims to establish the excise duty rate on e-cigarette liquids. This is going to be lower than the excise duty on tobacco and cigarettes. This topic, however, is out of the scope of this bill, and it is not regulated here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U319	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U320	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! During the preparation of this bill, was it also mentioned that there was again a situation where almost most of the villages have salesmen selling salasi cigarettes at home? They say there's control on the border, but it turns out that there's someone in one place, in the other place, in the third place who sells this stuff. We're restricting a lot of things, but shouldn't we also be thinking about how to limit the sale of salasi cigarettes? The second question is the exceptions. Specs are also exempted. We have special liquor and tobacco stores in every county, which also offer potato chips and candy. Can't we get more specs in Estonia after the adoption of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U321	Thank you. The decision on the precise definition of the specialty and the proportion of the goods in these shops must be on tobacco products remains with the Consumer Protection Board. A guide on how to regulate all this and enforce this legal provision can be developed together with merchants. As far as the tobacco secret market is concerned, it exists and that is the problem. According to the latest so-called empty package surveys carried out by tobacco producers themselves, the share of the secret market is around 20%. Of course, the secret market for tobacco products is highly sensitive to price differences. If Estonia raises excise duty, it will automatically increase the risk of the secret market. This is also the reason why the government has remained at the previously agreed rates of increase in tobacco excise duty: less than 10% per year. For pure public health, you could increase faster, but the risk of a secret market is too high. So much for that. Excise policy, as has been said, is a line of the Ministry of Finance and this draft does not deal with it. However, one specific provision that gives the Tax and Customs Board the right to carry out a control purchase concerns the secret market. This is precisely so that the secret market for tobacco products can be contained more effectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U322	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U323	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. In the preparation of the bill, is it meant to do such a thing to make special tobacco shops? We remember good things from the old days: there was a separate tobacco shop in Tartu in the old days, and tobacco products were not sold in the grocery store. Tobacco products are not foodstuffs, why should they necessarily be sold in a grocery store? Whoever wants to smoke, it goes and buys what you need at the tobacco store. Another story is, of course, with small village shops. There must be a hidden form of the goods or any kind of sale, but there could be a separate tobacco store in the city. And if it were clear, there wouldn't be any circus to do, or you wouldn't know what to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U324	Thank you. Several small traders have approached us and said that sales of tobacco products in small shops are one of the most important sources of income. You've talked about the need to protect small stores before, and I agree with that. So there is no such proposal in this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U325	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U326	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, There are thousands of people in Estonia who have given up cigarettes and started using e-cigarettes. We cannot, of course, claim that e-cigarette is definitely not a health product. However, e-cigarette consumption is healthier than smoking a real cigarette, both for the smokers themselves and for the people around them. If consumption of e-cigarette is equated to consumption of a real cigarette in terms of both price and use and sales, either there can be a situation where a person who currently consumes an e-cigarette is hitting it with his hand: what I still smoke is going back to the real cigarette. After all, the need to buy batteries, chargers, etc. falls. Aren't you afraid people are gonna smoke some traditional cigarettes again?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U327	E-cigarettes have come very quickly and forcefully to European markets. It is also quite aggressive promotional practices that have been exploited because their sales have not been regulated in the past. We are particularly concerned, as I said, that e-cigarettes are extremely popular among minors. That's for two reasons. Firstly, because they are even more delicious in smoking today before this bill enters into force as a law. The number of different seasonings added to the liquids is large, with a total of 7500. But another, perhaps more important reason, is that it is definitely known to parents that e-cigarettes do not stink. That means you won't get caught. And when we look at the percentages that show that the use of e-cigarettes among young people has exploded, it is quite a concern. It has to be said that e-cigarette producers or, rather, the distributors here have placed considerable emphasis on young people in particular. That's why we're working on it. Now, the truth is that a good ten-year long-term analysis of the impact of e-cigarette on health or on quitting smoking has not been carried out. It is not done because it is a rather novel product. Of course, it is clear that e-cigarette consumption is generally less harmful to smokers than regular cigarettes. It's true. However, we do not yet have a solid analysis to prove that it helps us to stop smoking. True, there are people who either commute between e-cigarette and regular cigarettes or they smoke both at the same time. Given that quitting smoking is a very individual process, there are also examples that people have switched from regular cigarettes to e-cigarettes and have stopped smoking after a while. But it's more of an exception. Unfortunately, there are not many tools to stop smoking other than counseling. While there are a variety of options for nicotine replacement therapy, the effect of which has been proven, but if there is no strong motivation and advice, their effectiveness is still quite low. In the case of switching to e-cigarettes, compared to nicotine replacement therapy, this is not the most important plus, i.e. the cessation of the practice of mechanical intrusive smoking, which is one of the main drivers of psychological dependence. A person is used to putting a pipe in his mouth and pulling something in periodically. So that is why such proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U328	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U329	Thank you. Dear Minister, Prohibiting and hiding can be considered to be a measure of prevention. But I ask how the state systematically deals with prevention so that young people don't even start smoking at all. And what services does the state provide for people who want to quit smoking? You referred to consulting services. How available are they?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U330	Indeed, certainly the fact that we have a general social framework structured in such a way that a) smoking is not attractive and b) not so accessible affects smoking start-ups. This is undoubtedly important. Of course, the country is also systematically working to prevent tobacco consumption, coordinated by the National Institute for Health Development. It happens that a public campaign was just recently launched on this subject. We have a nationwide collection of relevant counselling information, we have a website called tobaccoinfo.ee, where young smokers themselves and their parents, who are concerned about it, can get advice. We have the tobacco cessation counselling offices, as a rule they work in health care facilities. Various initiatives have been launched in the education system, one example being the tobacco-free class. Of course, all these activities and all this information have also reached study programmes. So we have contributed a great deal to this, I would say, more than we have contributed over the years to the fight against alcohol.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U331	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U332	Thank you! Minister, thank you very much. There is a point in this draft that abolishes the requirement that the Minister appear before the Committee on Social Affairs once a year and reports on the state of play in the area of tobacco consumption. It has been said here that members of the Riigikogu can ask questions and enquiries and that development plans and all other materials are available. I'm sure that's very nice. But the problem for me is that we must have a place where we can discuss tobacco policy, and I think that there is one such place in the Committee on Social Affairs. When answering questions, there is often no face - to - face discussion. We've seen it here many times. Is this step, however, not a bit cardinal? I think it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U333	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I didn't tell you about this in my report. It was a great surprise for me and most of the employees of the Ministry of Social Affairs, as well as the members of the Riigikogu with whom I spoke, that there is such a point in the tobacco law that the minister makes an annual review of the implementation of tobacco policy and the state of smoking in Estonia. I asked if it had ever been done. I was assured that it had never been done. I assume that the reason was not that the minister did not want to make this review, so the Riigikogu did not just consider this format to be necessary. In order not to break the law, we proposed that we take this point out. But, of course, if the Committee on Social Affairs or any other committee wants to discuss this issue or get an overview of what the Ministry has done during the last year or any other period, then the Minister will certainly be willing to come and explain it. But if the Riigikogu insists that the annual review of the Social Committee is necessary, then as a member of the Government of the Republic, I cannot stand against it at all. If I may, I will specify the answer to the question put by Ms Kersna. The same tobacco info.ee was in the meantime I was able to look at a separate link from which information can be obtained. There are 15 health institutions in Estonia that can be contacted for help and where there is a tobacco cessation counselling office.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U334	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U335	Thank you. Dear Minister, My question concerns Article 1 (15) of the draft, which prohibits the visible display of tobacco products at the point of sale. You pointed out above that tobacco products in small shops account for a large part of the turnover. When we think of South Estonia, a different excise duty on alcohol from Latvia has already created a situation where a large part of the alcohol is purchased in a neighbouring country. Unfortunately, alcohol also gives a significant proportion of turnover, that is a fact, and now we give a significant share of profit to Latvia. Have you consulted small traders on the additional obligations that this ban on display in a very limited space could entail for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U336	This restriction was discussed quite thoroughly when the Green Paper on Tobacco was put together. The possibility of imposing this restriction, as one policy measure, is clearly included in this document and various parties, including the Traders' Association, were also involved in the development of the measure. Of course, it is clear that there is no applause for this type of change. On the other hand, in view of the positive impact of these restructurings on protecting young people from exposure to tobacco products, I think that public health interests prevail. We do not regulate exactly what traders have to do with the display of tobacco. As has been said, in the Committee on Social Affairs, the ways in which exhibits are done in different countries are behind the curtain, under the counter, or the tobacco box above the counter has been turned the other way. This will not entail any additional costs. So the odds are beautiful. We have also provided for a transitional period to implement this measure. Of course, I cannot confirm that if I had to make these changes myself, I would say thank you to the government or the Riigikogu for that, but it is not too much now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U337	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U338	Thank you! I was prompted to ask the previous question about the experiences of neighbouring countries. Recently, I was able to visit Russia, where, by the way, all this goods are hidden. There's no cigarette display anywhere in the small or large stores. It was extremely surprising to me. The current discussions very much resemble the time when we banned smoking in all kinds of catering establishments in Estonia. Then it was the same thing that everyone went bankrupt, everyone stopped doing it. But it's actually a really nice situation everywhere right now. Recently, I went to Prague, where there was no ban, and it was extremely unpleasant when someone was smoking in the middle of town next door. The third example is a little further away. Maybe I'm wrong, and the minister might be able to fix me, but in Norway, I think there's a plan for some time that smoking will go away. What could be our trend in looking to the future? When could smoking be important for only a very small part of society?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U339	Thank you very much. I agree that, for every decisive step, it is feared that one or the other industry, or the whole industry, will cease to exist. It's been there. And not only in Estonia, but throughout Europe. I remember when it was said in Britain that if you can't smoke indoors anymore, all the pubs will be shut down, which these people will still be there when they can't smoke anymore. In fact, I do not remember exactly what has been found in many countries, but I think that research has also been carried out in Estonia on this subject, so that the number of visitors in catering establishments increased after this ban was applied. Families with children also began to go to these places because it was not so disgusting to be there. It's true. It is also true that several countries have committed themselves to achieving a tobacco-free society. Finland has done so, and several other countries have done so. As far as Norway is concerned, I am currently indebted to the answer, but I do not rule out that this is the case. Of course, it must be borne in mind that the most effective means of reducing tobacco consumption is the higher rate of excise duty. The Estonian state is in a slightly different situation from Norway or Iceland, for example. We are also crossing the border with tobacco products from Belarus and even Kazakhstan. As far as I know, Belarusian cigarettes are more than three times cheaper than ours. For this reason, it is clear that there will be no additional room for increased excise duty in the coming years. This, of course, also limits the setting of other very ambitious targets. This is how we aim to reduce the share of everyday smokers by 4% by 2025: from 22.1% to 18.3%.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U340	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U341	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The aim is therefore to reduce this percentage. I have to admit, I've been a smoker too, but now I've been a non-smokers for a long time. You claim that the positive impact of this draft outweighs the fact that the measure reflects the ideology of bans. Does this also have a positive effect on us getting the government of the tobacco-free Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U342	The main objective of these measures is, of course, prevention. We are trying to protect young people and to find out that children are smarter than fathers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U343	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U344	Thank you, manager. Good minister! A grocer once claimed that there was a price cap on cigarettes. It's like a health product. Could this issue be reviewed during the debate on the current draft law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U345	I'm not gonna go over it. To be honest, I am not prepared to ask this question in the sense that I do not know for what reasons and exactly how this marginal price was set in its time. The price of tobacco products does indeed exist. One reason was that the price clips were very large for tobacco products and I think there was something to do with taxation, as part of the excise duty on tobacco is price-based. The excise duty rates for alcohol products are alcohol-based, while for tobacco products they are price-based. But I can't answer that question exhaustively at this rate. I'll find out. I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U346	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U347	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! It's an impressive bill. Paragraph 28 (7) of the amending Act states that if a tobacco product falls into the property of a minor as an estate, an adult person must make sure that he or she does not receive it. How extensive is this problem? What does that mean anyway? Somebody's gonna kill Grandpa and find out he's got a room somewhere in the salas or just a drawer full of smokes, and then somebody's gonna have to get involved? Is it such a widespread problem that it needs to be regulated as a separate point in the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U348	Thank you. I have to be honest with you, I can't tell you. But I'll find out, too, and I'll let you know. I imagine that the inclusion of this provision here stems from the broader legal logic of the estate, that whatever things are transferred with the estate, if they are prohibited for minors, there will be some kind of mechanism. I know the law also says that if the estate contains weapons and the heir doesn't have a weapons permit, what does he have to do with them? I assume that this point does not mean the objectives of tobacco policy, but relates to a coherent legal framework for the whole issue of inheritance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U349	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U350	Thank you! The questioner put me in a little bit of thought, and so I formulated another question. Often, one portion of the estate is a pipe and glasses. Does it turn out now that your glasses can be passed on, but you can't have a pipe anymore?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U351	You can bequeath, but you have to make sure that the pipe doesn't come into direct possession of the minor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U352	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U353	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I will examine, as a result of this last question, whether there is an analogous point in the alcohol law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U354	Thank you. I don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U355	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. The Commission's rapporteur is the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Kütt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U356	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, We did not have as much fun questions as the Minister was asked in this Chamber today, on the Commission. However, I will give an overview of what the Commission has discussed. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu prepared a draft law amending the Tobacco Act 357 for the first reading on 24 January. The Minister gave a very thorough overview of the draft in this Chamber today, as did Katrin Karolin, Head of the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Kärt Sõber, Head of the same department, and Kersti Berendsen-Koržets, Legal Adviser to the Ministry. Many questions have been asked, some have also been heard in this Chamber. The question of Maris Lauri concerned the permitted derogations in specialised retail outlets, ships operating on international routes, shops in the enclosed territory of the airport and port. The Minister's answer was that the Ministry of Social Affairs did not object if the Commission decided to prohibit these derogations. The government had different opinions on this issue and, as a result, this point is currently in the draft. It asked how it would be possible to verify compliance with the ban on consumers and whether there were any sanctions for this infringement. The answer was that there are two options under the Directive to regulate national distance selling: whether it is banned or a separate register has to be made. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications does not consider it appropriate to establish a separate register. The infringement of the prohibition on the ordering of tobacco products and tobacco products sold at a cross-border distance is punishable by a fine of up to 300 fine units and the same act, if committed by a legal person, is punishable by a fine of up to EUR 3200. Liina Kersna asked about the opinion of the law firm Lextal, which states that Finland, like Estonia, banned smoke-free tobacco products, and the European Commission stated that it did not comply with the directive on the basis of which regulation was established. Does this mean that we must begin to amend the law adopted last year on the banning of other smoke-free tobacco products? Kärt Friend replied that this topic was not related to this draft. The problem is that in 2015 all smoke-free tobacco products were banned in Estonia before the directive came into force. The previously imposed ban is entirely valid and the European Commission has confirmed that everything is in order in this regard in Estonia. In the case of Finland, the problem was that they wanted to introduce this ban when the new directive had entered into force, and because the directive identified novel tobacco products, they were not allowed to ban these novel tobacco products. We have introduced this ban early, it came into force before the directive, and the European Commission felt that there would be no problem in this case. There were other questions, but they have all been answered by the Minister today, so I will not repeat them. The Commission proposed to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session by 8 February and to propose that the first reading be closed. According to the Commission's decision, Viktor Vassiliev should have submitted this draft, but it suddenly became apparent that he cannot be present today, and so I will replace him as chairman of the committee, as provided for by the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act. According to an executive publication of this law, the Commission's rapporteur ex officio will be replaced at first or second reading by the chairman of the committee. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U357	The first question is asked by Küllik's Hatter. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U358	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I would like to hear the conclusions of the analyses. How much bans affect a person's behavior? And since we are next to a large neighbouring country with very lively smuggling, doesn't that rather lead to an increase in the share of smuggling in the sale of tobacco products?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U359	Thank you very much, good questioner. The Commission did not raise this issue. The Minister today gave a very thorough overview of the impact of the draft, but he did not directly address this issue. Without the research data, I'm not going to propose anything to you either, even though I'm presumably more or less able to answer. But I don't want to answer more or less. We will certainly answer this question in writing with the help of a good minister. I must apologize to you, ladies and gentlemen. One more decision was taken by consensus in the Commission, but I did not mention it because I began to explain to you why I am here today instead of Viktor Vassiliev. It was also proposed to set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 15 March. The reason why the deadline is so long - 15 March - is due to the fact that, as the Minister has already said, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has taken the initiative to deal with the communication. The draft contains technical provisions which require the European Commission to inform the other Member States through national law, and this will take three months. And on March 14, it will be three months. Should an additional question be raised by a Member State, this period will be extended by another three months. However, we have now determined with this knowledge that on 14 March this time will be completed by the European Commission, by the deadline of 15 March of the amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U360	Thank you, dear waitress. Is there a desire to open negotiations on the general principles of the draft law? It's part of the first reading. I see there's no wish. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 357. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 357 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 15 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U361	Today's 14th item is the first reading of Bill 361 of Amendment to the Liquid Fuel Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the representative of the initiator of the draft speech chair, Mr Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U362	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Law on Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The draft provides for an obligation for suppliers of liquid fuel to include biofuels in petrol and diesel fuels. The aim is to meet the European Union's requirement that we have an obligation to provide at least 10% biofuel in transport fuels by 2020. I shall immediately mention that Estonia is the last Member State to take steps to comply with this obligation. The undertaking itself was created as early as 2009. The European Union has, in particular, imposed a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the obligation that, in the case of transport fuels consumed in the Member States, renewable fuel, or biofuels, will provide 10% of the energy consumption by 2020. As of 2015, fuel from renewable sources accounted for 0.2% of the fuel used in Estonian transport, most of which were electricity from renewable sources. With this figure, we were the last among the 28 countries of the European Union. According to the draft, our target for 2020 is achievable, but we are moving towards this goal step by step. The first mandatory date of blending of biofuels shall be 1 May inclusive if at least 3.3% of each litre of fuel released for consumption has to be a bio-component by volume. The next, stricter requirement will apply on 1 April next year if at least 6,4% of each fuel litre released for consumption has to be a biocomponent by volume. From 2019 this requirement shall be at least 8% but in each litre of fuel released for consumption, at least 6,4% by volume. It is all about giving us at least 10% of the energy from transport fuel a biocomponent by 2020. The obligation does not apply to all fuel types. Petrol 98, as well as fuel from the national liquid fuel reserve, remains bio-free. In addition, the requirement for the addition of biofuels does not apply to diesel used in winter 2017 and 2018. Therefore, between November 2017 and April 2018, there is still a demand break for diesel. In summer, there is already an obligation to add a biocomponent to diesel, but in winter there is a break. This distinction is due to the fact that the obligation to add biofuels to winter diesel has not been implemented in Latvia and Lithuania during this period. Such an agreement was reached by the Ministry in the preparation of the draft with market participants. I know that in recent days, the proposal to move this deadline has been submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu. I assure you that, in order to ensure healthy competition, I certainly support the Committee on Economic Affairs considering this proposal. If the draft is adopted as a law, it will be possible, from 2019 onwards, to carry out agreements between suppliers whereby statistics beyond the supplier's target can be transferred to another supplier. Compliance with the obligation will be reported to the Environmental Board and monitored by the Environmental Inspectorate. In most vehicles in use in Estonia, biofuels can be used without problems. There are some older petrol vehicles whose manufacturers do not allow the use of biofuel-added petrol and therefore remain 98 biofuel-free. The Ministry will provide an overview of vehicles that do not recommend the use of fuel that has been added to biofuels on the website of the Road Administration. As high-quality biofuels are more expensive than fossil fuels, the imposition of an obligation will also have an impact on final fuel prices. Based on the prices of biofuels in January, it can be suggested that the new commitment will increase the price of diesel by up to 1.5 cents per litre and the price of petrol by up to 5 cents per litre. In comparison, in various gas stations in Tallinn, the price of fuel varies mostly by 6 cents one day. The draft has been developed taking into account the proposals and views of the Estonian Oil Association, which brings together Estonian fuel companies, and the Estonian Association of Car Sales and Service Enterprises. I would ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U363	The first question is put to the Minister by Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U364	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'll take the word. This text reads as follows: only in the fuel used for transport. Biomixtures increase the price of fuel. So what do combines and harvesters do in the woods? Where do they refuel? For diesel, it's also going to be biofuels.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U365	Do you mean the one where agricultural machines can refuel? They'll have the same refueling facilities they've got right now. But yes, they also use fuel with a bio-component.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U366	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U367	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Maybe you'll explain a little bit about this distinction in the case of gasoline 95 and 98. It doesn't make any sense. Older cars, which cannot use fuel that is bio-diluted, are mostly driven by petrol 95. The number 98 of octane is too high for them, and it is mostly consumed by newer cars, especially luxury cars. It's like this regulation's gonna get messed up.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U368	In fact, 98 very few cars consume petrol, representing only 5% of the market. So the exception is for gasoline, which is scarce. You're saying gas 98 could be unfit for some old engine. But the AMTEL people also confirm that 98 is acceptable to all engines.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U369	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U370	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! My question is this: can you explain why the final price is even three times the difference between petrol and diesel? You said the price of petrol could rise by 1.5 cents by 2020, and the price of diesel could rise by 5 cents. What is the reason for this triple difference? I will be honest with you that I did not know the reasons for this in my group, which is why I am asking. The second question is whether these prices will increase so little. Yesterday I saw an interview where one of the four largest fuel importers in Estonia claimed that adding the biocomponent alone this year means an increase of 2 cents. Who's right?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U371	When it comes to the impact of adding a bio-component, different prices are set, as the price of the bio-component is also constantly changing. Speaking of gasoline, what do I rely on when I say that it can only add half a cent per litre of petrol? The price of ethanol is also important. We have had days in the past where ethanol added to petrol has been cheaper and has reduced the final price. So there have been situations in Estonia where we have sold petrol, in which 5% of the volume of ethanol has been mixed, and people have refueled it, without their machines starting to resist. The components added to diesel are from different raw materials. The most weatherproof component added to Arctic diesel is HVO, or hydrogenated vegetable oil, which is considerably more expensive than existing fossil diesel. However, its share of fuel remains so low that the impact on price is not too high.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U372	Jaanus Marrand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U373	Thank you! Madam Minister! I am sorry that I did not address this issue in the Commission, but in preparation for reading the draft, this question simply came up on its own. This concerns the addition of a bio-component. The idea that the biocomponent would only be added in two plants, Neste in Finland and in the future in Lithuania, by its old name in the Mazgeikiai factory, was sounded in the Commission. It's like only industrially can do that. At the same time, there is some kind of regulation that allows you to test even with a "lower dosage" in the Tartu terminal, for example. Neste's already done some experiments on the spot. Technology exists, it is possible to buy a bio-component from Europe and add it to the fuel mix on the ground. Is it possible to legitimise such a thing? This would clearly provide additional opportunities for on-site operators selling large volumes of fuel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U374	This draft is presented before you because, from 2020, all Member States in the European Union will have to use fuel with a bio-component. For this reason, refineries are likely to produce only liquid biofuels for the needs of the European Union by then. If this is not the case, this bill provides an opportunity to mix the biocomponent into fuel in the excise warehouse on Estonian territory as well. As there have been problems with dosers, the Tax and Customs Board in particular must be able to verify compliance with the obligations. But the last place to add is the excise warehouse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U375	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U376	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Estonia is at least externally such a country with a green image. If the European Council made such an obligation seven years ago, how have we managed to be a red lantern to this day?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U377	Evidently, the principle is that wisdom does not rush. The target needs to be reached by 2020 and a late start will also enable this commitment to be met. These four steps will give us the opportunity to achieve the 10% required by 2020. If this whole issue is extended, the percentage of biofuels added to liquid fuel may decrease if we can take significant steps towards the introduction of biomethane in transport.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U378	Madis Milling, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U379	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, In the preparation of the draft, was the impact of the law on competition in the Estonian fuel market also discussed? At the moment, it seems that even a temporary competitive advantage may arise for Nestele, who, as far as I am aware, already sells bio-added fuel in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U380	Thank you for your question. I read the same article and asked the draft preparers how the problem arose now only at the last minute that only Neste would add a biocomponent to the fuel during the winter. Let me tell you a little bit about how this bill has reached the point where it is in front of us today. First, we were introduced to the concept in November 2015. The opinion was then sought from different ministries and a meeting took place with the representatives of the oil company in order to establish the final version. On this basis, a protocol was drawn up in May 2016. On 9 December 2016, a press conference was held with the Estonian Oil Association and AMTEL. Then there was the knowledge that winter 2017/2018 would require a break in demand for winter diesel, but next winter it will be possible to obtain Arctic biodiesel from Lithuania as well. The government decided to send a bill to the Riigikogu on 5 January this year. Riigikogu took the bill into procedure and now, just two months later, we will be before you. Unfortunately, the fuel market has been announced that it will still not be possible to do these things by the time confirmed at the joint press conference two months ago. If they do not and if competition is really affected, the Riigikogu will be able to introduce a winter holiday for another winter. But certainly the law should apply at least to winter fuel, even simply to see how monitoring is carried out and how the addition of bio-components to fuel will work in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U381	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U382	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna stick to your word for "biomethane." We've gone like a simpler way of resisting. We are in the process of fulfilling this 10% target by adding a bio-component, but so we will not actually use all this added value in Estonia. It goes to Finland or Lithuania. However, there are entrepreneurs who are interested in developing the use of biomethane, who are interested in developing the use of hydrogen fuel in Estonia. In that case, the added value would remain for us. Why have we limited ourselves to just one and the simplest step that economically is the most damaging solution for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U383	We have now limited ourselves to this version to knowing that this will enable us to fulfil our commitment by 2020. However, if biomethane can be used in Estonian transport, the Riigikogu will be able to reduce the relevant percentage for liquid fuels, because we can guarantee the share of renewable energy in transport through other types of fuel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U384	Jaanus Marrand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U385	Thank you! My question concerns the information campaign. Indeed, some of the older cars cannot use the fuel that is bio-added, while the time is short enough. You said there's some information on the Road Administration page, but there's probably a lot of people who don't get to the Road Administration's home page. Is it still possible that some kind of wider campaign is being made to make sure that information gets to people? Otherwise, some people might just lose their car in a stupid way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U386	All engines will tolerate the amount that will have to be in the fuel as a bio-addict from 1 May 2017 - 3.3%. A good example is that of Latvia and Lithuania. In Latvia, biofuels already have to account for 4.5-5% of fuel released for consumption, 7% of diesel in Lithuania and 5% of petrol. In Finland, biofuels account for 15% of the fuel released for consumption. Anyone who has dared to take a trip to Latvia and refuel there at times has experienced that gasoline does not ruin any engines.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U387	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U388	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I want to ask you more about biomethane. What does the use of biomethane in transport really depend on? What is this behind, and would it be more useful to us than to inflate other biofuels, to be added to car fuel?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U389	Biomethane is a fuel that we can produce ourselves, or at least we have interested people who think they can produce biomethane. At the same time, palm oil added to Arctic diesel cannot be produced in our climate zones. What's it behind? This is above all behind the gas station network. We intend to further develop a plan on how Estonia could create such a gas station network at least in important places.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U390	Dear waitress, there are no more questions. The Commission's rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U391	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Law on liquid fuel on 24 January. The draft law was presented by Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Timo Tatar, Head of the Department of Energy, and Rein Vaks, expert at the same department. One thing is clear: by 2020, renewable fuel, or biofuels, should deliver 10% of the total fuel energy. Several questions also arose in the Commission. One was whether we're ready to go to the bio-dilution this year. It is clear that we will not make it by 1 May. In particular, it is a question of winter fuel. There's only one fuel company offering winter fuel with additives, that's Neste. We will certainly propose a revision before the second reading to postpone the dates in the draft by one year in order not to increase the price of fuel this spring. If it were an increase of two cents or five cents, it is not known, but the question is that a few days ago, the gas stations have already increased prices and we do not want to make two increases in one year. The requirement for a winter fuel additive is meant for the winter 2019/2020 so that the remaining fuel vendors can reach the point where they can offer biodiesel for the winter. It is a pity that biomethane has not been dealt with. When we asked the officials what the situation was, we received the answer that if someone doesn't want to do anything, it is suggested that we do the Commission and we start discussing it. Many farmers would be happy to offer biomethane at their slurry stores near their cowhouses, but there have been brakes on it somewhere. However, both the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the KIK have offered such a measure. But this development hasn't been completed. Public transport was supposed to be on the gas a long time ago. I think, as the Minister explained, why the bill came so late before us: the wise does not rush. It is also the Commission's view that we will start the transitional period when there is a final need. Perhaps by then the number of public transport vehicles with biomethane has increased considerably, and we do not have to add much of this biocomponent to the fuel. It is said that biofuels must not be produced from food materials, but let's be honest, the summer fuel additive is produced from them. After all, rape and rape are food materials. On the other hand, wholesalers on the Estonian market have said that they will be able to guarantee these biocomponents themselves in a few years' time and will then be able to add them to the fuel in Estonian excise warehouses. Thus, economic added value remains here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U392	There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no desire. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of Bill 361. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 12 noon on 22 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U393	Today's 15th and last item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Natural Gas Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the representative of the initiator of the draft speech chair, Mr Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U394	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm still happy to talk to you about the drafts we've started at this beautiful evening's hour. I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Natural Gas Act. Such a story that the Government of the Republic decided at its meeting on 9 December to send this draft to the Riigikogu. Since this took place already on 9 December and the draft was drafted by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure of the previous government, I can say that there are things in energy policy that have continuity. Like the previous coalition, the current coalition believes that the development of the gas market is a priority. The purpose of the draft is to clarify the obligation to provide gas supplies for energy security purposes, to make the gas market in Estonia more open and to encourage competition between sellers. The draft provides the basis for energy-based pricing of gas and network services. In order to make the gas market in Estonia more open and encourage competition between sellers, this obligation is currently imposed on the system operator, Elering, to develop a platform for data exchange on the gas market, enabling each consumer to obtain a periodic overview of gas consumption. The data exchange platform will also facilitate the choice of the most suitable among the eight gas sellers active in the consumer's choice. In essence, this platform works in the same way as the data exchange platform used in the electricity market and is expected to do so. The draft provides for a more detailed requirement for the system operator to hold a supply of gas for heating companies producing heat for household customers' homes in order to ensure that gas is available even in the event of a supply disruption of at least 30 days. Compared to the current regime, for example, the options for stockholding are discussed in the option contract, the gas purchased into the ownership of the system operator. The provision for the increase and reduction of the reserve is also set out here, as well as the case in which the reserve may be mobilised. It also provides that the stock can only be held in a Member State of the European Union. Gas supply may be mobilised if there is a serious supply disruption in the gas system. According to the draft, the administrative burden for gas sellers will be reduced: the changes will no longer require a permit for the sale of gas and will be replaced by a registration obligation. In addition, the company selling gas to its domestic customer no longer has to agree the standard terms and conditions of the sales contract with the Competition Authority. It is sufficient that the seller has the standard terms and conditions published on his website. The draft also provides the basis for energy-based pricing of gas sales and the provision of network services. The quantities of gas sold must already be expressed in parallel cubic metres and kilowatt-hours. Gas is used as an energy source, which is why the price based on kilowatt-hours gives the consumer a better overview of the use of gas than the energy source and the cost of using it compared to the cost of using other energy carriers. Settlement in energy units also contributes to reducing the problem of measuring the gas sold to domestic customers. In particular, the measurement of the gas delivered to the system operator and the gas consumed by the home customer will vary even if there is no loss in the gas network. As the volume of gas depends on temperature and pressure, the density of the lower-temperature gas, hence the energy content, is higher than that of the higher-temperature gas. This distinction can be taken into account when measuring the gas transferred to the system operator, but meters installed in households do not have this capability. Differing meters have not yet been installed on domestic customers due to the expensive nature of these meters. This difference is balanced by different solutions. Some network operators use an adjustment of the home customer's meter reading, some have already taken into account the difference and cost when determining the price of the network service. Since there are also network operators that have not taken any action to resolve the problem, the differences in the measurement of the gas sales price have also been taken into account. Therefore, since the price difference resulting from the measurement is currently reflected in the final gas price, the conversion into energy units will not lead to an increase in the final price. The solution proposed in the draft will ensure that the energy that has reached the consumer is taken into account fairly and on the basis of a common methodology. This approach has also been used in other Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U395	Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U396	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! We in the Commission discussed the issue of temperature in this formula. Have you been able to discuss this further in the ministry? How can the gas still be at zero degrees?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U397	The Commission, which includes higher education chemists, said that ideal gas does not exist in nature. However, in addition to the members of the Commission, experts from the Ministry of Economic Affairs confirmed that this common set of rules allows us not to take into account the exchange of all household meters at network prices, which would obviously lead to a significant increase in prices. That's the conventional gas temperature, that's the common methodology.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U398	Aivar Chef, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U399	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'm sorry, but I'm just asking for more to educate myself. The system is working now and no price increases have come. Why, then, do we have to create one formula by adopting the draft, which could lead to price increases?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U400	If we do nothing, if we do not adopt a common methodology, every household consumer can demand a new meter. So far they have been installed at 7 to 19% of the total. The cost of these meters is the right to take into account the price of the network service. Without a single system, there is a need for more expensive meters. And given the volume of gas used by domestic customers, these more expensive meters do not earn back. That is the simple answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U401	No further questions. Thank you very much. For the presentation of the Commission, I call on Jaanus Marrand, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U402	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Natural Gas Act at its regular meeting on 24 January. Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, who also presented the draft to us, as well as Timo Tatar, Head of the Department of Energy, Rein Vaks, expert in the same department, and Peeter Kadarik, adviser to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, were invited to the meeting of the Commission. They all presented an overview of the objectives and content of the draft and answered the questions. I will not present the substance of the draft here, but I will give a brief overview of the Commission's debate. Logically, this will continue to be the subject discussed here by the chairman of the committee, Aivar Kokk. These were the main issues at the Commission meeting. I am thinking of the dependence of gas on temperature and its inclusion in the consumer price imposed on the population. This was a subject that took the main time from our whole debate. But before I get to that, maybe a few more questions. One Member of the Commission asked where the gas supply was being held. They're being held in Latvia. There was also a question of draft accompanying regulations that could exist. These are perhaps traditional topics. The draft regulation should already exist when the draft comes to second reading. That's what the Minister promised. Now the difference between volume and temperature. When we were preparing to read the bill, we were in contact with the various parties, and this topic also arose. So far, there is no law in force that temperature must be taken into account to ensure a gas balance. According to the draft, in order to ensure a balance sheet, the volume at 0 °C would be taken into account, although at this temperature there will never be a gas in its natural state. In comparison, according to the Excise Act, for example, when measuring the use of natural gas, a temperature of 20 °C is agreed. But yes, as I said, the natural gas law doesn't touch the temperature at all. In practice, the temperature of natural gas sold is never 0 °C. In winter it is about 4 °C and in summer it is about 15°16 °C. As a result of the calculation of the temperature below the actual temperature, the average price of 100 cubic metres of gas in winter will be paid by the consumer for approximately 107 cubic metres of gas and 103 cubic metres in summer. If the calculation was based on the volume of gas at 0 °C, the average difference would increase further to around 9.5%. This means that at the current sales volume, which was 54.8 million cubic metres in Estonia as of 2015, the suppliers, or Eesti Gaas, will receive an additional income of 2.8 million euros from consumers thanks to the amendment of the law. There are no formulae in the current Natural Gas Act for the calculation of the gas sold to consumers, including the so-called equalisation coefficients, but dealers are currently using these formulae. Eesti Gaas sells gas to the network company according to the meters. The meters take into account differences in both temperature and pressure, and the settlement between the system operator and the main supplier, or the gas company, takes place precisely according to the metrics. However, the settlement between the network operator and the consumer is carried out by means of such fine-tuning formulae and the resulting differences in actual costs. There is a Supreme Court ruling concerning Eesti Gaas and Tallinn gas, which are a network company. Eesti Gaas sells gas to Tallinn gas according to its meters. Tallinn gas was not the only one that applied any formulas, but sold gas to its customers according to normal meters. In reality, the difference was only EUR 1000, i.e. the need for conversion, just as it did not. Now, under discussion in the Commission, we had the question that if there was no real difference between ordinary calculations without any transformation formulas, then what is the question at all? Well, it could be that these formulas aren't used. In the dispute, Eesti Gaas was the complainant, who sued the network company Tallinn gas, but Eesti Gaas was the loser of the Supreme Court. That's how we got the question. In formulas, everything has been made very simple, the profits have been incorporated into them, and it is as if consumers should pay 10% more for gas. As there are around 40,000 gas users, the installation of meters would take time. The same is true in the case of electric meters. The electric meters have been replaced and the problem does not seem to exist. Rein Vaks, an official of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, said that the drafters had examined the court decision cited, and the draft text contained this amendment as a consequence of the decision. Switching from 50000 to 60000 meters would lead to an excessive increase in the price of the network service. This is also what the Minister referred to in his reply today. And the comparison with the exchange of electricity meters is not appropriate, as the volumes of electricity sales at the connection points are significantly higher and the new meters pay off faster. In a gas stove apartment, changing the meter pays off in about 40 years. Eesti Gaas does not currently use conversion, but the cost of not using the correction is included in the price. Therefore, this cost is already reflected in the price of gas, but in the light of the Supreme Court's decision, it is necessary to correct the calculation. An important issue in this court case was the conditions under which the network operator could sell natural gas to customers. Natural gas doesn't belong to a network operator. It only transports it. The court ruled that the terms and conditions for the transfer of natural gas must be agreed by the system operator itself. In order to be able to meet the conditions, the network operator must replace all final meters or solve the problem by using a conversion, which is then done by most, except for Tallinn gas. Both activities produce the same result, but switching meters means a large investment and an increase in prices to the final consumer. Timo Tatar, an official of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, explained that the gas meter is a much more sophisticated device than the electricity meter, which, based on the results of the measurements, makes the operation on the basis of the so-called ideal gas formula. The question arose that this so-called ideal gas did not really exist and at 0 °C the gas never existed. That was the question that remained in the Committee on Economic Affairs. In the course of a further debate, it should be considered whether it is reasonable to include 0 °C in the draft law. That might raise questions. There are quite a lot of very informed customers among Estonian consumers who can understand these formulas. However, these calculations have been submitted to Commission officials and are likely to be available to ministerial officials. So in the course of the further procedure, it is still necessary to find a medium and consider whether this 9.5% difference is justified or not, whether this gas is really thinner or whether there is a difference in the calorific value. This was not discussed by the Commission during this meeting. Another question was why, according to the draft, the Competition Authority no longer has to approve the standard terms and conditions that the gas company imposes in consumer contracts. Rein Vaks, official of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, replied that the regulation of standard terms dates back to the time when there was one seller on the Estonian gas market. There are currently eight sellers and there is no reason why standard terms should be coordinated with the Competition Authority. However, the network service provider must coordinate the standard terms and conditions with the Competition Authority. It was also pointed out that, according to the draft law, the isolated network and the gas circulating in it should be excluded from the regulation of the Natural Gas Act, but should safety issues not, however, be regulated by law? The representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications explained that safety requirements are stated in the Equipment Safety Act, which also applies to the gas network. The quality requirements contained in the Natural Gas Act were also discussed. The Ministry explained that the gas circulating in the system was subject to requirements, in particular so that the infrastructure of the system would not be damaged. Consumers also need to know what the gas is like in the system. In local networks, as a rule, one LNG vessel, or so-called coal, is connected to a single consumer, who knows exactly the characteristics of the gas it receives from it. Of course, deadlines were also under discussion. According to the representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, it would make sense for the draft to enter into force in July, but this naturally depends on the speed of our procedure. Finally, it was decided by consensus to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by today and that the first reading be closed. We also proposed that the deadline for amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 22 February. That's all I got. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-08_U403	Dear waitress, thank you very much for your thorough review. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 350. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of 350 amendments at 5 p.m. on 22 February. Today's trial is over. Thank you for today's debates and debates. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 19.48 p.m.
