ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Monday of the 12th plenary session. There is an opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U2	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! With inquiries, you know, there's a lot of them, but then there are Mondays when they don't come. Sometimes they get to answer quickly, but some take a long time. One question that the Free Party has submitted to Mr Ossinovski on the Green Paper on alcohol policy and the failures of excise policy has gone so far as to make it appear that the coalition has understood the problems and at least a little slowed down the rise in excise duty, albeit not enough. We also had a discussion on the alcohol law last week and this week. The Riigikogu has generally corrected the Minister's very regulatory, very prohibitive-commanding approach. Consequently, the members of the Free Party withdraw their request for information No 398 submitted on 20 November 2017, which is scheduled for the eighth item on today's agenda. We'll get to dinner early. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U3	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U4	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I present an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure on behalf of the Conservative People's Party delegates about the construction of the Tallinn road. Namely, the Kose-Ardu road section will soon be completed, which is very positive in itself, but strangely, there are some scissors just I can't tell you exactly which part of the project was being worked on, and the section to be built will be much narrower than the section of Tallinn-Kose, for example. The narrowest come from the road beds and lanes, and the strangest thing is that it is planned not to put the last layer of asphalt. The reason is that in a few years' time, the road will have to be repaired. So the situation is kind of that we're building a house, but we're not doing some work, because we're gonna have to start repairing the house sometime anyway. At the same time, all of this, I can't say whether economicisation or bullshit are seriously contrary to the current standards that have been introduced in 2005. In this context, we have a number of questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U5	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U6	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Conservative People's Party Group have a question about the old good and familiar subject, which is migrants again and again. In September 2015, Estonia promised to receive 550 persons from Greece, Turkey and Italy within two years. Two years have passed on birdflying, and this promise has not been fulfilled, fortunately! But now the government has come up with a new and even more ingenious idea: to volunteer for refugees. In particular, last Thursday, 14 December, a government meeting decided that the government would voluntarily accept 80 persons within two years in connection with the European Commission's proposal to resettle 50000 migrants, in particular from North Africa. According to the government, it is a good idea to include these 80 persons among the 550 people who were admitted more than two years ago. In this regard, we have four questions. First of all, why accept anyone if there is no obligation to do so? Secondly, why include these persons in a figure that has nothing to do with this? These 550 individuals have nothing to do with the current decision, as two years have passed. Thirdly, why do we continue to accept people voluntarily, although it would be far more cost-effective if we were to channel this money into the hotspots and refugee camps? Fourthly, what is the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Estonia towards the conflict between the European Commission and certain Member States, which is primarily caused by the quota system? What is the attitude towards Hungarian and Polish policies if they do not accept the European Commission's current policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U7	Let it be said that an inquiry has been submitted to the Prime Minister. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U8	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic shall initiate the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the accommodation of data and information systems. Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the Government of the Republic will present a draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Renewing the term for the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan'. Jüri Luik, Minister of Defence, will represent the Government of the Republic when this draft is being processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U9	I have adopted two drafts and two inquiries. Under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we will proceed with them. Incoming check, please! 84 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session. Adoption of the agenda. No 8 on today's agenda, request No 398, will be removed from the agenda as it has been withdrawn by the heirs. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 12th working week of the VI plenary session. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U10	The first question on the agenda has been made by Andres Herkel, Artur Talvik, Jüri Adams, Andres Ammas, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsepp, Terje Trei and Igor Gräzin. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U11	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! Dear Minister, The heirs are of the opinion that, due to the circumstances at issue in this inquiry, the Minister should actually resign. This position does not concern the Minister for Agriculture, but it does concern Minister Kadri Samson. This time series, which illustrates the decision to pay the breeding aid for pigs in the coalition and the step taken by a person very close to Kadri Samson in relation to a company belonging to himself, to start a performance check on animals and to join the Estonian Breeding Association, is quite hopeless to convince the public that the inside information was not used. In such a situation, it would be best to assume political responsibility. But this, as you know, can't be the subject of a direct inquiry. As we deepened on the subject, we have come to the conclusion that there are a number of other issues relating to this support measure, which concern not only the possibility of political corruption in the payment of this support but, above all, its selective nature. Why did some pig farmers who are members of a breeding cooperative receive this support but others did not receive it? Why was the notification deadline for those who might have wished to participate clearly too short? What was the proportion of eligible farms as at 1 December? What is the compatibility of this form of support with the State aid rules, and what is its long-term relevance? Yes, we understand that this type of support was needed because of the spread of the swine plague, but direct payments to pig farms were not known in themselves in the European Union, as we know, can only be paid for breeding aid, and now this payment of the aid fell out quite selectively. The Minister for Rural Affairs has organised matters in such a way that a council has been convened on agricultural matters, consisting of people who have interests in this sector. As far as we know, they are also paid wages, and this council has replaced the councillor's institution. We also have the question, on this point, that if this council makes any important decisions for the Minister, could there be a conflict of interest. We have a total of six questions for the Minister for Rural Affairs, which we are waiting for an answer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U12	The question is answered by Minister Tarmo Tamm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U13	President of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, I sincerely thank you for bringing this issue to this Chamber of the Riigikogu because, throughout this period, no one has publicly asked me any questions about this issue. So let's move on right now, point by point. The first question: 'Which supported farms are involved in the commercial interests of Teet Soorm and Urmas Lahge through ownership? How many grants have they received? ' Teet Soorm has no establishments which would be justified to receive a service from a breed society for carrying out a breeding book and keeping a breeding register and performance testing. I stress that Teet Soorm has no companies involved in receiving support. Urmas Laht is related to OÜ Markilo, of which it owns 9.625%, and which is justified to receive a service from the breed cooperative for the maintenance of a breeding book and a breeding register and performance testing of EUR 121018,58. The part of Urmas Bay is 9.625%. Point 2: 'How many pigs farmers in Estonia (number of producers, number of sows) who received aid through the breeding association of Estonian Breeds were there at the time of implementation of the support criterion on 1 December 2016 and how many were there who did not? Why did the Ministry not inform those deprived of the grant of the support measure within a reasonable period of time before the decision was taken so that they could also participate? ' Breed societies meeting the grant criteria were one in pig farming at that time: Estonian Breeding Association of Breeds. Breeders shall not be eligible for breeding aid for farmed animals, but shall be breed societies authorised to maintain herd-books or to carry out performance checks at least one year before the start of the period for submission of aid applications. All pig breeders are currently and have previously had the possibility to become members of a breed society and to enter their animals in a breeding register or breeding book if their animals comply with the requirements of the breeding programme and to receive a corresponding service through a breeding book or breeding register. It has also been possible for all pig breeders who have become members of a breed society to receive performance testing services from a breed society for their animals. As of 1 May 2017, there were 15300 sows, gilts and boars in Estonia, most of them under performance control were 10036 animals. This calculation excludes 11057 sows, gilts and boars kept in Rakvere Farms because Rakvere Farms are not micro, small or medium-sized enterprises and therefore does not meet the criteria for receiving breeding aid under the rules on State aid for farmers. Participation in breeding activities shall be voluntary for breeders. Breeders whose animals comply with the conditions laid down in the breeding programme may join the breeding programme. As a result, many keepers do not participate in the breeding programme with their animals and do not have performance testing carried out. Support has been paid to breed societies since 2004 for the maintenance of breeding books and performance testing services. So if anyone thinks that 2017 was the first time it was paid, then no, it's been paid since 2004, so there couldn't be anything surprising here. At the end of last year, the government found an opportunity to increase the remuneration for performance testing, as well as to make the payment of breeding aid cost-based. Point 3: 'What conclusions have you drawn from the Samson-Sorm case, so that in the future it will be fair to provide subsidies and it will also look fair to the public? ' The government negotiations did not discuss how breeding support is paid. The conditions for applying for and paying the breeding aid have been adopted by decree of the Minister for Rural Development of 15 September 2016. In order to ensure that the principles of the payment of the aid and the basis for calculating the rate of support are unambiguously understandable and more transparent to all breed societies operating in Estonia, two engagement events were held in the Ministry of Rural Affairs last autumn to listen to the suggestions made by all parties. Representatives of all authorised breed societies and performance reviewers who had been authorised to carry out a breeding book or to maintain a breeding register or to carry out a performance check at least one year before the start of the period for submission of aid applications were invited to the participation event. The invitations were also sent to those breed societies which were subsequently authorised and did not yet qualify as applicants. So, actually, everyone found out about it, and everybody got to be there. Point 4: 'Is this method of granting aid compatible with the EU regulations and is there a request for authorisation of State aid? Does this aid measure comply with the State aid rules, including whether it has a selective character, whether it confers an advantage on the beneficiaries in the market over others, and whether this aid measure distorts competition? 'As regards aid for breeding, a State aid notification has been submitted under Article 27 of Commission Regulation (EU) No 702/2014. Therefore, yes, this form of breeding aid is in accordance with European Union regulations and has been requested to do so by the European Commission for its authorisation of State aid. The second half of the question mentioned the selective nature of the aid, the granting of a market advantage and the distortion of competition. These are not the conditions which should be assessed for the payment of aid for pig performance testing, which are criteria for the concept of State aid in accordance with Article 107 (1) TFEU. Since breeding aid has been registered by the European Commission in the European Union State Aid Regulation, the Commission has analysed these criteria and decided that it constitutes State aid. The above criteria will be analysed in other cases, if there is any doubt as to whether or not the measure should be subject to EU State aid rules. If it can be demonstrated that at least one criterion is not met, the EU State aid rules do not apply. Point 5: 'How justified do you consider the cost documents submitted by pig farmers? Under the current Regulation, a single producer (1) is paid up to EUR 18,83 per animal for keeping a breeding book and a breeding register; and (2) a performance check or genetic evaluation of farm animals is paid up to EUR 218,46 per animal. What percentage of the sales turnover of these producers of pig production does this aid represent? Is it vital for you that manufacturers also spend the amounts actually requested, e.g. for performance testing? 'I repeat: breeding aid shall be paid to breed societies in order to enable them to provide the farmer with a breeding book and keeping a breeding register and performance testing service. Under the current Regulation on breeding aid, the aid is paid on a cost-based basis. The unit rates shall be used to calculate the maximum amount of support for a breed society, while the breed society shall be able to provide cost documents on the eligible costs set out in the Regulation. A list of eligible costs is provided in the breeding aid Regulation. No breeding aid is paid to businesses and therefore no percentage of sales turnover can be calculated. Yes, I trust Estonian breed societies, and I believe that they do their work honestly, and I also trust the PRIA and their supervision. Point 6: 'You have formed, by a decree of 12 January 2017, one of your political advisors in place of [office] the Advisory Board on Agriculture of 7 members. It must be concluded that the members of the Advisory Board are officials as they have acquired their status and competence. They will also receive financial remuneration from taxpayers for this activity. On the other hand, the members of the Advisory Board are active in the agricultural sector, benefiting directly from [there] income. The Council has made numerous proposals to the Minister, with direct or indirect revenue from the entry into force of these proposals. Such a council may be corrupt if the members of the council make their own decisions in a constant conflict of interest. For example, Urmas Laht, Chairman of this council, has been involved in limiting African swine fever in order to introduce stricter biosecurity requirements or even for the compulsory cessation of production in the decision-making of small producers. At the same time, its own company has initiated an environmental impact assessment of the extension of the hoghouse on Markilo AS Needng. Urmas Laht has also been active in the back room of the Centre Party in the introduction of the aforementioned sow allowance. Do you see a conflict of interest within the meaning of the Anti-Corruption Act as an authority in the activities of Urmas Gulf? ' First of all, I stress that the aid we are talking about is the aid for breeding pigs, not the aid for sows. It is up to the farmers' council members, as practitioners, to highlight problems, to propose issues and to propose alternative solutions to agricultural and rural problems. I would like to stress here that the Advisory Chamber of the Minister does not make its own decisions or intervene in the distribution of money or in the decision-making process at any level. That's not their jurisdiction. The Ministry of Rural Affairs employs excellent experts in its field, ministerial officials whose advice and experience are also helpful in solving various problems and issues. I also meet every week with representatives of a number of sectors, businesses, NGOs to listen to their concerns and proposals. In addition, I travel around Estonia a lot and visit farmers and entrepreneurs. I think it is up to the Minister to listen to different opinions and suggestions, to analyse them and to synthesize the best solution. Returning to the members of the council, I say that only one of the seven members of the council belongs to the Centre Party. It includes one of Estonia's largest potato growers, a representative of the organic sector, a representative of young farmers, and one of Estonia's largest cereal growers. So it involves all specialists in the best sense and only one of the seven members belongs to the Centre Party. Is there any way they can influence my decision or make me do something I don't like in any way? It's just not possible. That's all for short. Thank you for asking me questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U14	Questions for the Minister of Rural Affairs. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U15	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Please, could you specify on which date and by whose signature all producers were sent a notice that an additional payment could be granted or, rather, that the aid amounts had increased? You said that the European Commission had been asked to grant State aid. You were talking about weighing, but you didn't tell me if this permit had been granted. Can you please specify if it has been issued and, if so, when?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U16	Thank you. This authorisation was issued in 2014. So there's a permit. But on what date we sent out reports that all parties can participate in the negotiations in the ministry, I will certainly specify that. I will send you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, this reply specifically because I do not have any information on the date on which we sent out this message. Everyone was able to participate, everyone was aware. Once again, nothing changed in substance. The breeding aid for pigs shall be paid from 2004 onwards and shall amount to EUR 450000 in 2016. When the new coalition came to power in the country, he saw the situation in the sector. Perhaps you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, too, will understand that if the state had not intervened here, we will not know where we would have gone. I'll get some numbers. In 2014, there were 378000 pigs in Estonia, and by the end of 2016, this figure had fallen to 265000, i.e. by 113000 in two years. In 2017, this figure has reversed its rise, with 287000 pigs in Estonia. I recently heard from Statistics Estonia that the number of pigs increased by 7% in the third quarter. So the measure we have implemented has served its purpose. I think that it is once again meeting the objective, in the sense that we are only able to cover 73% of our internal market needs for pigmeat at present. In addition, it is about jobs in the countryside, rural areas and life in general, so the state simply had to deliver here. It was a national opportunity, and the country took advantage of it. Estonia is not unique here; similar grants are also paid in Latvia. If further specified, it can be said that, for example, there is no direct aid for pig farming in the European Union, there is support for cows, sheep and meat cattle, but there is no possibility for pigs to receive direct aid on the basis of a unit. But I'll have that date sent to you when we sent out those messages. Then you'll have confirmation that everyone was able to participate, and no one was kept a secret from it. There's really no secret, because everyone knew that data was always supposed to be provided by December 1st. Nothing really changed in a year, just up to 2 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U17	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, You may have taken advantage of the fact that, on the first question, the point is not quite written out. The bacon of Linnamäe should be connected to Teet Soorm's father, if not to him, so the connection is obvious here. But my question is that $2 million isn't $450,000, that's a significantly higher amount. On 14 November, the coalition talks decided on this amount and two days later, the Läänemaa pig farm made an application from Linnamäe Peekon to start a performance check and become a member of the respective breed society. How do you disprove the public's very clear suspicion that it was the use of inside information? Otherwise, the Bacon of Linnamäe wouldn't have made that decision so quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U19	Thank you. I'm having a hard time commenting on that. The Baekon of Linnamäe tried to join the breed society in May and it was not known to them either that they had to be registered by 1 December. Of course, I don't know who the owners of the City Hill Bacon are, but I certainly commend them because they bought the pig farm back to Estonia from foreign capital. So in any case, my praise to them for taking such a strong step. And not only pig farmers buy back farms, but also plant farmers have bought back fields from foreign capital by hundreds of hectares. So the sector is starting to recover. But find no conflict here... I can't even tell you what that information was, what they didn't know. The negotiations were all public. It was public that was restored to the top-up. It was public that pig farmers would receive full support. I don't know what this is about, or what information someone might have gotten from someone. It's really hard for me to understand, I don't know. To be honest, I do not know where this advantage may have arisen and what this advantage is, because it is public that, since 2004, breeding aid for pigs has been paid. It is now 2017, so it has been paid for 13 years. What was the secret? I don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U20	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U21	I mean, the whole story is that if we were thinking not about the pigs but about the money, and if there were a Financial Inspectorate here instead of us, and it was some kind of bank or financial company, then I think that the arrest would not be one person, but just several permits would have been taken away, because the whole group that is here clearly refers to the use of internal information. Indeed, today all internal information is known, but the market matters when someone learns something, two days sooner or two days later than the others. In finance, this is the next step towards criminality. That is why I repeat the previous question. Does the Minister claim that there has been no internal trading, no internal information movement among the Soorms, the families involved, and the whole gang?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U22	Thank you, dear questioner. Even if that information were there, I'm asking what advantages they would have gained. I can't imagine it. It's public that 2 million is paid, it's known that they have to be in the register on 1 December, it's public. What was the advantage of whispering to someone? I don't understand it. Let me read the words of a respected man. Indrek Klammer, Member of my Advisory Board, CEO of OÜ Voore Farm, has said that things in pig farming are so controlled and legal that such information-based activity is not even an option. He emphasises that he is a member of the Board of the Breeding Association of Estonian Breeds and therefore knows exactly how the payment of the aid is to be paid. The stapler says that the movement of pigs in Estonia is better controlled than the entry of people, they cannot move randomly. First, they have passports and second, they're put in the ears right after they're born. This is a highly respected farmer's assessment that it is impossible to control it better. Friends, believe me, not everything is always as black as you think that all subsidies are paid only on the principle that no one gets any success and benefits. At present, the pig sector has been successful and beneficial. As I said, this year this sector has turned upside down, 7% more pigs than a year ago. Within two years, the number of pigs decreased by more than 100,000. Should the government have stood by in this situation? So what's the government's job?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U23	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U24	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! This exponential rise resembles the grant of hidden subsidies or covert support. We know, yes, that in the European Union direct aid for pig farming must not be paid, crisis aid we have already paid as much as possible, etc. Can the surge in breeding aid be described as the last straw in support of pig farmers? The second part of the question is how many Estonian pig producers are not members of the breeding society.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U25	Thank you. I don't know if it was the last straw now, but it was at least one straw that gave them hope and hope that they would be supported in the same way as their neighbours in Latvia. Is that a lot of money, $2 million? I don't appreciate it. Let's say that the hole that had formed in previous years is definitely several times the amount of support they receive. Once again, this is the only way to support pig farming in this way. The European Union rules do not provide for the payment of direct payments on the basis of livestock units, so this is the only option. This amount per unit will certainly be lower next year. Not all pig farmers joined the association. Let's say the previous amount was relatively small. In previous years, the proportion of pigs was around EUR 350000 per hectare, which remained small per unit, while the breeding aid was paid for some 2 million. The pig farmers simply did not become members of the association, and as a result, this was the case. I think there will be a lot more next year. Therefore, it is particularly important that they are members of a breeders' association. Secondly, if there are more sows, we'll get more pig cattle. This is a broader issue in order to improve the quality of pork and to increase the quality of varieties or breeds. But this is one way to turn this sector upside down. We ourselves will cover 73% of our internal market needs. Imagine how much we're gonna lose because somebody's gonna import us that meat. That's a lot of money. It's relatively difficult to restore it all. Is this amount of grants high or low? I say it's small in the end, because the hole that's formed over the years is still tens of times bigger. That's what's going on for investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U26	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U27	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It seems to me that you did not answer Arthur Talvik's question to the other party, which concerned how many members there are in the breeders' association and how many pig farmers do not belong there. As far as I know, at least half of Estonian sows and some of their keepers are not part of a breeding society. For example, Rakvere's meat factory and Valga's meat factory have their own breeding. My question is very simple. If it was decided that breeding needed support, why was the aid not paid to the whole flock but decided to pay the aid through a specific breed society? It is no secret to anyone that this organization is, unfortunately, run by the middle party Urmas Laht. It just makes it look really bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U28	Thank you. I honestly admit I'm not part of this organization. In the way they choose a leader, whether they do so by party membership, qualifications or competence, the Minister cannot interfere in any way; they are independent. But I don't think you, esteemed vigilante, were listening properly. I will read to you once again: as of 1 May 2017, there were 15300 sows, gilts and boars in Estonia, most of which had 10036 animals under performance control. Indeed, HKScan and Atria are excluded from this calculation because they do not qualify under State aid rules. These animals should, as far as I know, be on the Finnish performance control register. Hence this approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U29	It is a special honour and always a sincere pleasure to give the floor to Igor Gräzin, but according to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, I can only give the floor once for questioning during enquiries. I'm sorry! Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable Minister! You are trying to make it look like there has never been a crisis aid paid to the pig farming sector in the past. You forget the fact that the current government has not paid half of the crisis aid that the two previous governments were able to pay out. Through this you are trying to say that if the level of self-sufficiency in Estonia was 100% or 110%, this pork and these pork products would all reach the Estonian consumer's table. You should be very aware that when Estonia had a 100% or slightly higher level of self-sufficiency, imports and exports were more or less balanced. What I want to ask, however, is whether you would be so eager to raise livestock farmers' premiums. There was such a trick in pig farming that, in principle, unit support increased up to 10 times and the other parties in the sector are quite upset about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U31	Thank you. How do I say? During the previous government, 13,000 decent breeding animals, which went to Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, were simply looked aside and had to be removed from the dairy herd. The government had a chance to support, but he didn't. The number of pigs fell by over 100,000, the government was just looking at the sidelines. You had the opportunity to pay 70 million euros on top-up, you missed this opportunity and you just watched as the boards were emptyed and people were left without work in the villages. I think that in the pig sector all this is either impossible or very difficult to restore in order to regain the number of pigs that were before the crisis. As far as support for bovine farming is concerned, we will look at all this on a sectoral basis. I congratulate beef farmers who have managed to increase the number of meat cattle by 10,000 this year. They're doing a really good job. Of course, we will also help them and they will be able to participate in their application for breeding aid. Is that always enough? The sector will grow very fast and probably in two or three years there will be 100,000 cattle in Estonia. Excellent work and I congratulate the representatives of this sector, but it will not help the pig-growing sector in any way. It is also up to us, the minister and the government to look at the tables and the bill to see where we are lacking and where we are not. Here we have shortcomings and, consequently, the new government coalition chose such a policy. I am pleased that it is in the coalition agreement and that it is accepted by all parties. So all three parties in the government realized that there was a need to help this sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U32	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The dairy herd breeding cooperative also receives aid but does not distribute it among its members, but uses it in a large proportion in general to carry on breeding as a whole in dairy farming. Why was it decided to choose this second way to distribute support to individual growers and to do so on a cost-based basis? These are two basically different approaches. Why did the pigs go the other way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U34	Thank you. A very good and constructive question. I congratulate you because you are also very well guided by agricultural policy. The dairy sector is one of the strongest sectors in Estonia. They do organise their lives on a sector-by-sector basis. I say that Estonia's opportunity is the dairy sector. I hope I'm not insulting any other sector, but that's the way it is, given our climate and all this breeding mathematics through history. It is not in vain that we are the second largest dairy cow in the European Union, only Denmark is ahead of us. I say it is only a matter of time before Estonia gets past Denmark. That's the way the sector has chosen. The pig sector is exactly the same: they value themselves how to improve breeds, etc. It shouldn't be government-centred. The sector itself does, and that's their choice. I think it's a good thing they control and deliver themselves. To claim that someone can arrange things there is simply not possible because there are so many interest groups. I remember the discussions that took place in the Ministry at the end of the year. They weren't quite peaceful, but everyone realized that this was an additional opportunity offered by the government that came to power last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U35	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U36	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! This is a very interesting discussion for a cityman like me. But explain to the city boy why this breeding of sows, their performance control and this whole world are so much more expensive than dairy cattle or dairy cows.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U37	Thank you. Honourable member of the Riigikogu! If I would now like to read to you what are the eligible costs for a breeding book or a breeding register and what are the costs of performance testing or genetic evaluation, I should say that there are two pages. I promise you... [[A voice from the hall.]] How? With one sentence? I'm not sorry! A politician so good that I can sum up what's written on two pages with one sentence, but I say that these conditions are so different. I shall then consider the eligible costs: labour costs relating to the breeding book or to the keeping of the breeding register and the income and social taxes, compulsory collection pensions and unemployment insurance, costs of small inventory and material, costs of breeding book or breeding register training, costs of management of basic tools, costs of genetic research to prove and identify the parentage of the animal, information technology costs for hardware and software and development costs, transport costs for the breeding book or for the keeping of the breeding register, costs of the outsourced service, costs of publications relating to the production book or to the holding of the breeding register, and overheads of up to 15% of the costs set out in points 1 to 9 above. Point 2 is the same length and even longer. You see what it's made of. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U38	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U39	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You responded to Mr Ammas, but in fact, there was also a special aid for cattle farming. As a lot has been said here, the payment of beef aid is so-called "directly possible" in the European Union, but this is not the way to pay aid to pig farming. At the same time, pig farming had developed a situation where the pusher fell. In this situation, there was a problem with the preservation of the breed material as such. It is clear that the breeding measure in pig production was a direct economic policy measure in order to maintain the herd. This was not otherwise possible under these rules. Could it be that a fundamental economic policy measure was chosen to support pig farming in the first place?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U40	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. You asked and you answered very accurately. You're a bigger politician than I am because you're a practitioner, you deal with this every day. Actually, that's it, yeah. I also said before that cattle and dairy cows can be supported by direct payments, but pig farming cannot be supported in this way; it can only be supported through breeders' associations. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U41	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. How do the farmers' umbrella organisations: the Farmers' Confederation, the Farmers' Confederation, the Chamber of Agriculture and Trade regard the entire package of subsidies that the current government has made for farmers? Do they agree with the claim that pig farmers are in some way privileged and that other members of the sector are being harmed, or do they consider that this measure has gone to the right place?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U43	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. It's like the sector doesn't mind, they understand. When coalition negotiations were held, the parties to the coalition negotiations were approached by the Farmers' Confederation, the Farmers' Confederation and also the Chamber of Agriculture, all of whom actually supported it. They assumed that these subsidies would be introduced in order to reverse the sector's rise, which has succeeded today. Do you think that farmers are very upset when someone else gets support? They see that the whole rural area and this sector are developing. They're not the kind of people who'd be jealous of it. This was their wish, and this desire is reflected in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U44	There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U45	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, Some clarifications need to be made. As I have already pointed out, in reply to the first question, the Minister shunned Teet Soorm's business interests and even gave the impression that they did not exist or that he, Mr Minister, did not know anything about them. I'm gonna have to make a few turns here. The company involved in the noise had become a member of the Citymäe Peekon half a year earlier, in May 2016. Previously, this company had not considered performance testing to be important, at least these things had not been handled. That's when the dates I was pointing at came. Logic is irrefutable. On 14 November a decision was taken at the coalition talks on the payment of this subsidy. The Centre Party wanted this support to be much bigger, with 5 million planned, and the coalition talks had 2 million. On November 16, Kadri Samson's life partner, Teet Soorm, applied to the Läänemaa pig farm to start a performance check on animals. This farm was the Bacon of Linnamägi. On 22 November, the Peekon of Linnamäe was accepted as a member of the Breeding Association of Estonian Breeds. The performance check accounted for 584 sows. The increase in the number of sows may also raise certain questions. Now there's a few more. Igor Gräzin may have left the room, but the analogy used in his question with the stock exchange and the use of inside information is, in my opinion, entirely appropriate. The time series gives the impression of using inside information, and it has not been denied by anyone, neither by Kadri Samson nor by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, whom this has been repeatedly asked. The Minister of Rural Affairs did not do that today either. Now for the size of the support. Yes, when it was mentioned here that it was EUR 450000 in previous years and now it is EUR 2 million (as I mentioned, the Centre Party's wish was to move 5 million into this measure), this difference is still quite large. But I think there's another problem here. Indeed, this high level of breeding aid (more than EUR 200 per pig) is hidden in a subsidy which is generally not permitted by European Union rules. All this support should have been put into crisis aid measures, which the previous Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruuse, referred to above. Then we would be quite sure that all this activity is in line with the provision and the spirit of the rules of the European Union. There was also a reference to agricultural organisations. It seems to me that at least the reference to the farm union was inaccurate. There is no doubt that subsidies are always accepted, but perhaps it is a little premature to say that such a proposal and such support were immediately applauded. This letter, which went out, did not contain any numerical reference to breeding; breeding was generally spoken of, contrary to the top-up and crisis aid, which was the subject of specific amounts. Finally, there was a conflict of interest. The business interests of Urmas Gulf are obvious here. The Minister pointed out that the majority of the members of the Advisory Board were not members of the Centre Party. The Chairman of the Advisory Board is a member of the Centre Party and is very clearly involved in business interests in the sector. However, we do not have any conviction or understanding that there has been no conflict of interest in making decisions and writing recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U46	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U47	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, After all, the small setback to pig farming is the result of a failure in the meaning of Estonia's state reform, namely that there is not enough cooperation between our authorities. This shit started when the swine plague took over, and we had a minister who was unable to respond quickly and meet hunters' prayers to give this permission to eliminate the problem. But that's hindsight. I hope that the next governments will not allow such a thing to happen. This topic, the culture of central party governance, this conflict of interests in agriculture, has also highlighted speeches that say that our agricultural policy is too much dependent on subsidies and that subsidies are made dependent on production. Those entrepreneurs, who, I dare say, are primarily representatives of the right-wing worldview, point out that we would need the support of the state for those activities that would enable us to find a market outside Estonia. If we have a market, we also have production, if we do not have a market, then we do not have production. A few days ago, Raul Peetson of Halinga OÜ performed in "Actual Camera." I think he has a very exemplary venture in Pärnumaa. I've been there myself. His thinking is, in my opinion, very exemplary. The representatives of several other manufacturing sectors have pointed out that the support provided by EAS and the opportunities offered to find foreign markets are not sufficient. We need more cooperation from both producers and State aid. On this, I think, we need to think first of all about support policy, not so much about dependence. The call on the Minister to find, in particular, support measures that favour self-sufficiency. Yeah, I guess that's the problem, which was before, egg or chicken. Agricultural policy is one of the most socialist policies in Europe. The grants have put our producers in a slightly weaker position, but we, as a small country, need to look for solutions to reduce such dependence. European Union subsidies will, I think, gradually do so, although I also think that this is an area in which failure will not take place exponentially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U48	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U49	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! One of the most important priorities of the government that took office in November last year has been the future of Estonian agriculture, because the earlier governments regrettably have not remembered the Estonian farmer in difficult times. The Centre Party has always found that agricultural land and food production in Estonia are important for our security, economic development and also for the survival of rural areas, because they give work to very many people. Before signing the coalition agreement, the coalition negotiating parties were jointly approached by the Farmers' Confederation, the Farmers' Confederation and the Chamber of Agriculture. They wanted the coalition agreement to include subsidies paid to Estonian agriculture in the years 2017 to 2020. They wanted transitional support to be paid in full, and they also expressed their hope that the new government coalition would be able to take more effective steps towards the development of the Estonian agricultural and food sector and rural development. It was also noted last year that the political choices of the government led by the Reform Party in recent years have exacerbated the market crisis in the dairy sector and caused a reduction in milk production in Estonia. By 2014, Estonia had lost 9,000 dairy cows in two years. Despite the critical situation, the government at the time did not find any budget options for the payment of transitional allowances. The manager of the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce, Roomet Sõrmus, pointed out that when it was agreed in Latvia that direct payments for agriculture would not decrease in 2014‐2016, and our neighbour also paid breeding aid to dairy producers, which allowed them to survive during the crisis and even supplement the dairy herd, Estonia chose another route. Another route was chosen by the then government to support the rearing of pigs devastated by African swine fever. The concerns of the Centre Party, which we emphasised already in 2015 at the party council, sounded to deaf ears. We insisted that the Government of the Republic take all possible measures to support this agricultural sector, because it is clear that Estonian pig farmers are competing with producers in other European Union Member States. Many Member States supported pig farming with a number of measures, we did not. The Estonian Government, unfortunately, looked only on the sidelines of unequal competition. Despite the sector's devastating swine plague, pig farmers received almost nothing from the aid for agriculture. More than 400 pig farmers had to cease their activities. The damage to the Estonian economy already amounted to 36 million euros. The concerns of rural operators were therefore justified, as the potential of pig and cattle farming had been affected by the crisis. I believe it is clear to everyone that support had to go to those agricultural sectors where the crisis had been the most acute, i.e. the dairy and pigmeat sectors. I am therefore pleased that the government coalition emphasised from the very beginning that agriculture was their priority and did so not only in words but also in deeds. The new government coalition did not turn its back on entrepreneurs, listened to them and took their proposals into account. The coalition agreement was made precisely by listening to farmers, which is what I am delighted about. I would also like to point out that there will also be additional support for agriculture in the next year's budget, EUR 18.4 million. Together with the allocations under the Coalition Agreement for transitional and breeding support, the Ministry of Rural Affairs will receive more than EUR 40 million for agriculture, food and rural development. The government will pay farmers transitional payments up to 2020 at the maximum authorised rate. This has not been done by previous governments. In order to help overcome the crisis caused by the spread of African swine fever, the government has agreed that an additional EUR 2 million will be contributed to the breeding of pigs every year for the next three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U50	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I was brought here by the remote to talk a little bit about the desire to explain what agricultural support is. We often talk about agricultural support in a key, as the previous speaker said, the lady of the Free Party, as if it were social support. Agricultural support is, in fact, a business idea. Dotations have an absolutely different dimension and content in the economic sphere than social benefits, which, of course, exist in the social sector. Estonian farmers are very competitive. This is expressed both in our business structure and in the extent of dependence on subsidies. As a rule, an Estonian farmer is ahead of a European farmer precisely in terms of the proportion of subsidies in economic performance: it is much smaller in Estonia than in the so-called old European Union countries. The Estonian farmer is significantly more progressive in this regard, none of them waiting anywhere, with a long hand. On another subject, I would point out that it may be a little astonishing to hear that a rather typical state of negotiation is spoken of as some sort of possession of inside information, etc. I do not think that coalition negotiations or negotiations on any subject or area can be conducted in such a way that there are people who do not know anything about it. Well, then it would be like some kind of stuff jumping like a pee-pee-pee, but they don't even talk about the contents of themselves. It is natural that representative agricultural organisations in any field provide input, write their own applications, make certain requests. Each year, the same farmers' organizations have sent their letters to all political groups. It is quite natural that if you go to the negotiating table and you can agree on something, that information will be possessed. I dare say that once the agreement has been reached, I will call the representative of this organization on my way out of the room and say that, hey, Roomet Ring, head of the Chamber of Agriculture and Trade, you sent a letter here as a representative of Estonian farmers and we managed to push this through. I know that other coalition partners do the same. Is this a transfer of inside information now, or what is this thing? However, the question would be if data had been transmitted on a specific amount of money directed at one producer. There was no such thing. In this case, it is like natural political lobby. This is a matter of individual and general distinction: when things are taken individually, when generally. There's gotta be a difference. If we don't know the difference, there's no way we can do anything. When it comes to whether it should have been a breeding grant or anything else, yes, it is an economic policy measure to ensure that the pig rearing and pusher does not disappear from Estonia at all. Whether it is paid per unit of either size or size, that is another question, but so it was possible to support the herd and it was done. This is, in my opinion, very reasonable, and I think it is not reasonable to discuss whether it was necessary or not. In any event, this support met the objective. As we have heard from the Minister's report, the biggest crisis in pig farming has passed. There are certainly good and faults in supporting breeding, but I don't think there were any other ways out right now, and that's how it was done. Now the question is, is there anything extraordinary about it? Indeed, as the Minister pointed out here, breeding aid has been in place for a very long time, and this area has been supported for a very long time. In fact, during the long periods of the previous government coalition, all business income in agriculture was very ignorant. After all, breeding aid was always asked, and all the farmers' organisations always asked for it. It was well known that it was not possible to pay support for just one pig or whatever, because it is not a policy of the European Union. When I talk about crisis aid, I say that the crisis is also a very precise sign of interpretation, and this concept of crisis is also put in place in politics. Proving it is an art in itself. The speaker here has dealt with this and I know it is very difficult. The easiest and most sensible thing was to support it through breeding. In my opinion, this support went to the right place. I'm glad that government coalition could do that. The last one couldn't, of course it's a shame.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U52	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U53	Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I came to this remote control because of Erki Savisaar. I do not know if this text was written by Mr Cool, but at least this is the impression that he has been a very strong co-author of this text. I want to say a couple of things, because if there is a lie, you have to react. I guess you're gonna have to react to that saying that thing that's been coming out of this remote control right now. One part of this lie relates to this argument, as if no money had been paid to pig farming in the past. It's a lie, just as Erk's message was wrong to be looked at numbly. It would be reasonable to recall the package of measures used in pig farming, including biosecurity measures, restoring potential, if necessary exiting the sector, moving to another sector as a result of the crisis. This scale is quite wide, these decisions have been taken. Secondly, I must admit that I do not enjoy the fact that a rural man or a farmer had to give up part of his herd or move to another sector at one point because of the crisis. This is where 10,000 cows were named. It was certainly tragic, but not all the 10,000 cows lost to the sector just because there was a crisis and the bad government did not do everything. Together with our Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues, we managed twice to negotiate very decent subsidies for Estonia and all the Baltic countries. It must also be borne in mind that milk production in itself did not fall as much as it is described here, and we are still in a situation where there is a pointless flow of raw milk for export, which does not add value to the sector. But it makes me laugh at the fact that breeding aid is spoken of as merely as the roof of the dinner table of the Estonian people. You will all remember very well that before the Russian embargo, very many live pigs went out of Estonia. You could just say that when Putin opens the door, this breeding runs right into the Kremlin. This is for a very simple reason: if you pay 1 cent or 10 cents more for a kilo of meat, that's what happens. At the same time, it must be recognised and recognised that pig farming in a wider context, including breeding, has evolved over the last ten years and has developed precisely in the direction that the quality of meat has improved and that the potential for meat production has indeed increased, but it has no single link to the fact that this support covers our dining table. This actually means that export imports will last. In the same way, good ambassadors, you must understand that if, during the crisis, a kilo of milk was paid 20 to 22 cents and the smallest, independent animal keepers received 17 cents, the aid of 1.5 cents does not determine whether they survive or not. It also needs to take into account whether there is good management, greater co-operation, etc. The same applies to the meat-growing sector and pig farming. If the price of live weight fell from 1.50 to 50 cents in the zone, you will understand that in the first phase it was necessary to refer the aid to the third zone. But it is clear that the current government does not speak economic language; it says that it was the sector's greatest desire to grant 10 times more breeding aid to pig farming than to the rest of the sector. The breeding aid for pig production is now higher than the aid for the rest of the breeding. That is why I also understand the public interest, including the interest of members of the Riigikogu in why such a decision was made. There's a connection. Maybe a good minister can explain. The Agriculture Development Council has been the minister and ministry of the greatest... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U54	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U55	...and a more neutral advisor. It is very difficult to make it clear to the public that experts with direct interests are able to provide balanced advice rather than defending their own interests. That's the problem. In my opinion, we have also moved in this sector to what has perhaps long been known in the economic sector: there must be no conflict of interest; things must be honest and they must also look honest. This has been a key issue that actually triggered the public interest. It is possible for one minister or another to make certain political decisions. They are currently being made in the light of the fact that the budget is in deficit and that taxpayers' money is being given to one sector proportionally more. It has to be acknowledged that if these agricultural organisations had said at one point that they wanted crisis aid to be distributed in such a way that the support for the pig farming sector would have been twice as high, it would have been a very strong signal. However, they did not say this, taking into account the value of the whole sector, including the value and cost of the pig sector and the price pressure. It must be acknowledged that as far as the dairy sector was concerned, the pig sector did not get the total production in terms of price as a whole. These numbers are incomparable, there are proportions here. The European Commission has given Member States, including Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, the possibility to pay the aid, also taking into account the proportion of pig farming in one country or another. It must be acknowledged that the European common agricultural policy considers the pig-growing sector and what is happening in it to be an industry and, as a result, it is not considered as part of the common agricultural policy, which the honourable members of the Riigikogu asked about a few moments ago. As a result, it would have been the easiest and most logical way to provide additional support through crisis assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U56	Members of the Riigikogu do not want to speak further, but the minister does. Please, Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U57	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you once again for your questioning! I am not going to debate today whether this money will somehow reach Putin or what the purpose of this support will be. I say that it fulfils this objective to ensure that our pig farming sector is strong and that we can also export pig meat, not only produce it for ourselves. This is a different political approach. If 70 million were not paid out during the previous government and more than 100,000 pigs and more than 12,000 cows were lost to the sector, this is a different policy. If we come back to this question, we can say that we really do have another advisory body, this is the PMAN, which includes a very large number of people from a number of organisations. Has he influenced the Minister in any way? Well, it hasn't. Let's not think about some organization affecting you. Organisations simply give advice and must be listened to. Of course it is worth visiting the Riigikogu. It was quite interesting to hear that EUR 5 million had been requested for this breeding aid for pigs. I sincerely say I've never heard that before. I don't know where that data came from. If you're talking about inside information, I'm going to say again that I don't understand what this inside information is about, because everything was public. If you say that Kadri Simson, the vice-president of the party, is the vice-president of the party, he doesn't know what's going on in the negotiations, then why is he the vice-president at all if he doesn't have any information. I am not going to talk about the future of the CAP, because I am about to board a plane to go to Paris to discuss the future of the CAP. I sincerely thank Chancellor Ülle Madise, who gave me the opportunity to answer you. I'll probably make it to the plane at 5:25. I sincerely wish you a Christmas peace. Continue to consume Estonian meat on your Christmas table, so you support the Estonian farmer. So thank you to everyone and see you next time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U58	I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U59	The authors of the next inquiry are Andres Herkel, Artur Talvik, Andres Ammas, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Jüri Adams, Krista Aru, Monika Haukanõm and Ain Lutsepp. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U60	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Your Honor, Chancellor! Let us now switch to issues concerning local governments and their councils. An inquiry shall have a long title: proportionate representation on the committees of local councils and the right of members of the council to belong there. First of all, as an introduction, I would like to say that it would be all the better if Estonia's overall political culture were such that, if some council committee were to be formed, of course, the chairman and vice-chairman would be directly elected in such a way that one of these positions would go to the coalition, the other to the opposition, and there is no such thing simply that no political force represented on the council would either receive representation on the council committees through its non-volunteers, or would not receive representation in proportion, according to its weight. However, as Estonia's self-government culture is as it is, it has happened in previous times that some council members are simply not approved by any committee, because the coalition thinks he is annoying, or they think it is better not to let him do so. As a result, members of the Riigikogu have made changes to the Local Government Organisation Act in order to make the rights of opposition representatives protected from trees and red. In fact, on 9 December 2014, the Riigikogu adopted such changes that the composition of committees takes into account the proportion of political parties and representatives of electoral associations in the council, as well as the election of committee presidents and vice-chairmen at the same time, exactly as it is in the Riigikogu committees, so that the opposition receives at least the vice-chairman's seat. Not enough, it wasn't the first time. In 2016, the amendment to guarantee the right of each council member to belong to at least one council committee entered into force. It turned out it wasn't there before, and since life had brought these problems to light, it was written in the law. A previous Chancellor of Justice, Mr Jõks, has also concluded that the right of every member of the Council must be taken into account when approving the composition of the council committees. This last amendment, which was adopted by the previous Riigikogu at the end of its term of office, entered into force on 16 October 2017. I mean, since then, council committees must take account of the rule of proportional representation of the council. But there are a number of, I think, municipalities where there have been problems here. The most drastic problem is Narva. In Narva, it happened that the opposition forces in our Narva, although they had reached the council, received this surprise that not all of our Narva representatives were approved on the council committees. As far as I know, this shit's still going on there, and the council members have turned to the court. That's the situation. One of the representatives of the Narva authorities in this Chamber, Mr Stalnukhin, is not here today, but I think many will remember what words he gave me earlier when I raised this general issue of corruption in relation to Narva. This problem is very serious. Now the Viimsi. The situation in the latter is not so bad that members of the opposition would not have been able to enter the council committees. It is rather bizarre, however, that Viimsi's coalition of power with the Reform Party is at the forefront of the damage that there is no one in this Chamber, Mr Aivar Sõerdi, who has found that the relationship between the opposition and the coalition of the council 12: 9 corresponds to how seats were distributed on council committees (proportion 45: 8). I do not know whether Viimsi's current parish elder, former Vice-President of the European Commission Siim Kallas, shares such mathematics that it is more or less the same, but I have been told by the members of the Viimsi Council that this is how he calculates. Because of this embarrassment, we have a number of questions for the Chancellor of Justice. What can be done in such a situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U61	Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U62	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! If I may, before answering the questions specifically and one by one, I will be very brief about the frames that have already been touched on by Mr Herkel. In fact, in the proceedings concerning the composition of the previous Riigikogu, or the composition of the XII, the draft number was 602, the original text of which reads as follows: '... the representation of the political party and lists of the electoral union elected in the committees to be set up by the council shall be proportionate to their representation in the council. " Perhaps the wording was slightly different and, in fact, much harsher than in the text of the current law. At the initiative of the commission, or the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this sentence was amended and the condition was relaxed, also in the light of the position of the Chancellor of Justice, which had already been referred to it ten years ago. Thus, a sentence has now entered into the law and has entered into force since the last elections, which says that the proportion of political parties and representatives of the electoral federations in the council will be taken into account when shaping the composition of the council committee. Maybe it'll count. I would say that the justification for this amendment in the explanatory memorandum to the amendments has failed in some ways, but this amendment can still be justified. This is justified by the fact that it is not only the Commission that we are talking here about the audit committee, but the chairman and vice-chairman of the other committees must certainly be members of the council. Others may not be. In fact, it seems to me, at least, that good and reasonable practice has been the way all these years have been to involve local life experts who were not elected or who did not apply at all in the committees. But the statutes of municipalities and cities regulate this issue differently. In most cases, it still stands out that at least half of the members of the council committee should have a council mandate. The fact that there are council members and non-volunteers in one committee may be experts in a particular field, such as kindergarten educators or social workers, and others clearly come from lists of political parties and electoral associations, makes it impossible to comply with the rule of absolute proportionality. It seems to me that this relaxation of the wording itself is in line with the constant position of the Chancellor of Justice and our administration at that time, that the principle of democracy requires that, if a person has a council mandate, it must not be prevented from using it for political or day-to-day reasons. At the same time, the state cannot prescribe very harsh and restrictive rules for the local community and its council from outside. But now specific questions. Question one. How does the above-mentioned provision comply with the principle of legal clarity and whether the opposition protection clauses are sufficient or whether the law should be amended? Firstly, this is a restriction on the right of self-regulation of the local government, and that is why, at least so, 14 members of the Riigikogu voted against this amendment (71 for, 14 against, 1 abstention). I think it is clear from the examination of the Constitution that such a restriction is constitutional. It was not born empty, it was born of the fact that, fortunately in some councils, not in most councils, it had happened that the opposition members of the council were left at the door of the committees, not for constitutional and just reasons, but for other reasons. Clarification of the principle in law should be the task of the municipal statute, but it can now be said that we see in many of the statutes that the regulation of the appointment of an honorary citizen is very detailed, together with the internal dispute settlement procedure, but the procedure for the appointment of members of committees is much more limited. Therefore, if I may make a suggestion here before you, I will say (and, of course, we also recommend it to the municipalities themselves) that the rules for determining the composition of all the bodies, including the council committee, should be as precise, well and fairly and rational as possible in the basic regulation, given the same veil of John Rawls' ignorance. This means that, ideally, you know how much this will materialise, and I hope that it will materialise, so ideally, agreements of this kind will be long-term, and all parties that will agree will take into account both that they are in the coalition and that they are in opposition. The solution should look fair on both sides. It is clear that, if one or some political forces have become a clear majority of the people's will, they must have the right to decide by the will of the majority in the event of an unsolvable conflict. It's probably not disputed by anyone. Question two. How can you understand the right of a council member to belong to at least one commission as provided for by law? Does this mean that a council member may choose this committee, or is it someone else competent to do it for him? Yes, indeed, for over 11 years there has been a provision under which each member of the Council has the right to belong to at least one committee. However, it is not objectively possible for every council member to become exactly a member of the committee of which he wishes to be a member, but it would be nice to take his wish into account. Once again, I believe that it is possible to do so with good will, as it seems possible in the Riigikogu. Why is it objectively impossible for everyone to belong to the committee of which he wishes to be a member? The limits are set by the size of the committees, which are regulated in many of the basic regulations. Secondly, there are members of committees from outside the council, which I think is once again a good practice, but, of course, the legislator is in the hands of changing this practice, the Constitution promises it too. In addition, membership of several committees has its limitations, i.e. one council member may not, as a rule, and probably objectively, could not belong to all committees. We have seen these basic regulations, which state that if, for some reason, a council member has not been approved as a member of any committee, he has the right to decide which commission, other than the audit committee, he wants to be a member, he will announce it at the council meeting and it will be finalised, with the council's decision not to be put to the vote. Question three. Is the interpretation of our Narva ambassadors, referred to in Mr Herkel's speech, that 23.3% of voters' support should give them just as much proportional representation in all committees, accurate? Does this principle of proportional representation extend to those members of committees who are not at the same time members of the council? Unfortunately, I must say that this is not accurate; this wording probably comes from the original text of the law or has used an analogy with the Riigikogu. However, the current much more lenient wording does not mean that the wishes of the members of the opposition to be members of the council do not have to be taken into account at all or that the opposition can be excluded at all. That is certainly not the case. I said a few words about how to assess the political affiliation of non-volunteers. Obviously, I do not need and cannot clarify it; your experience on these issues is likely to be greater than mine. The fourth and final question: 'What if a council member cannot exercise his right to belong to at least one committee, because the coalition will vote against it or will not put it on the agenda at all? What if the proportion of political parties and representatives of the electoral federations in the assembly of committees is ignored in the council? What measures should council members take to protect themselves and their list rights in such situations? " At the moment, it is true that disputes between a council member and a council body, including the council itself, are not put to the proceedings by the administrative courts. What about the complaint made by our member of the electoral union in Tartu Administrative Court, we cannot say at the moment. Today, before I set out for the Riigikogu, we had not yet come to an interesting position from the court. But the courts have so far found that this is an internal dispute which the Code of Administrative Procedure does not provide for. The exact same story, perhaps even more acute, is the possibility for a council member to receive the information necessary for his work. Whether to ignore the law at all or, at least, to go to the grey border areas, the material necessary for the work of the council and relating to the activities of the local government unit tends to be stamped as "AK" or "in-house" information. And now this most funny part: referring to this temple, it is said that the council member will not be given this information. Firstly, the Public Information Act does not apply to these relations at all. Secondly, just because it doesn't extend doesn't mean that anyone has the right not to give information to a council member. Thirdly, there are very clear limits to the creation of trade secrets, the protection of personal data and other such bases. On these two issues, if the Riigikogu wishes to do so, there is actually one option. This is: supplement the Code of Administrative Court Procedure, in particular § 37 and § 44, with a provision which also gives jurisdiction to the Administrative Court in such disputes. Of course, the administrative court cannot take the place of a council with a public mandate; it cannot change these decisions in substance, but procedures can be assessed. From the point of view of current practice, when similar matters have been brought to the court's jurisdiction, I dare to say that the mere possibility that the right granted by law can also be defended in court means that there will be no such litigation. That's one way. But most of all, I would like to stress that nothing can be written into the law and all my life. If things work out just like that in a spirit of mutual understanding, you don't need it. Unfortunately, it seems that the law on the organisation of local governments is the mirror of situations where either they can't get along or they want to put each other away. So if you ask me what the members of the council can do to protect their rights within the framework of the Constitution, the answer is what I have already said: if the Riigikogu so wishes, it is, in principle, possible, and in accordance with the systematics of the Estonian legal order, to give the jurisdiction of the administrative court to settle such disputes. Parallel places for amendments are Articles 37 and 44 of the Code of Administrative Court Procedure, or HKMS. An internal dispute resolution mechanism can also be established. This can be done in the Local Government Organisation Act. But once again, most councils are able to manage the formation of committees, and they are also better or worse able to deal with these disputes, so it seems that the individual who cannot cope may not be able to reach the mountain with their internal mechanism. Thank you very much. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U63	And the questions will come. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U64	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Chancellor of Justice! Unfortunately, as I understand from your answers, the protection of minorities at local level is essentially lacking. You referred to legislative changes that could take a year or years and may have passed the next municipal elections. I have such a philosophical question: what is the idea of a local government council at all and what is its competence if the elected delegates are not allowed to work, and are these councils also legitimate to represent their voters?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U65	Thank you! I can only acknowledge you, this question is actually very good. I don't think there's a simple answer to that. A lawyer's proper circular response would be such that if someone wanted to challenge, for example, the municipal or urban budget, for example, to the problem you referred to, the court would wait for it to say. Taking some responsibility on my shoulder, I repeat the advice given earlier that it will be possible to process this HKMS change more quickly if you wish. In addition, I would very much like to hope that the people would punish cultural violations, whether in the form of resentment, most people would like others to view them well, or, another, sooner or later, who have made the rules unfair while in the coalition, will feel the whip on their backs dancing. This is, of course, bad from the point of view of general political culture, because it is easy to lower the bar of political culture, to lift it up awfully hard.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U66	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U67	Thank you. I will try very quickly to formulate two questions within one question. Has there always been, or has it been, an amendment to the current Code of Administrative Procedure that the Code of Administrative Procedure does not allow for disputes in the Council? Here's the second question. If the opposition in Narva is a fifth of the council, can this fifth say that if there are five-member committees, they should have at least one seat in each committee, but if there are ten-member committees, they do not necessarily have to get two seats, but they may be told that they will help you with one? I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U68	Thank you very much. I'll answer you as soon as I can. Yes, the Code of Administrative Court Procedure has been this way for as long as I can remember, or, more specifically, its interpretations, which have been given in the courts. Here is one basis, or that a decision from 2004 that creates a norm or precedent. Now the wording of the Code of Administrative Procedure has changed, but the point has not changed. At the same time, I look forward to what the Tartu Administrative Court will say about this matter and what the District Court and the Supreme Court will say if an appeal is brought. Perhaps this time the court will decide that this is a public dispute and an administrative matter which is currently subject to other grounds. However, this may not happen because, once again, the court looks at it in such a way that a member of the council in relations with his own municipality or city, including the council, is not a ordinary citizen who needs protection, but he himself exercises that power. In order to change this situation and to improve political culture, it may be necessary to provide such a specific basis, but it is certainly possible. Secondly, the model calculation proposed by Mr Adams, I think, can be true. At least it would be right to claim one or two seats, but once again it will depend on who the other members of this committee are.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U69	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Two laws governing or trying to regulate the involvement of opposition politicians in council committees were recalled here. We can see that this has been of little use in some places in Estonia. Please tell me, how can these general concepts of democracy, inclusion, participation, political culture and conscience be clarified so that we no longer have these cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U71	Thank you very much. I hope that this debate today, and this debate that has taken place in the media, will take Estonian society forward in this direction. I still offer the same recipe that I have repeatedly presented, so that all common rules for resolving conflicting situations should ideally be put in place so that everyone withdraws from their role. It's the same John Rawls veil of signorance that you're trying to make fair rules that might seem fair, regardless of the role you play in opposition or coalition, you're either elected or not elected, you're a specialist in this field or an active speaker for community affairs. In short, it might seem reasonable from any point of view, given, of course, that decisions must be made on them and, above all, on those who have received a stronger mandate from the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U72	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Chancellor! My colleague Andres Herkel gave an example of Viimsi. I am pleased to ask a question on behalf of the Viimsi opposition. What are they in these specific circumstances, where they feel that they have been harmed and that percentages and proportionality are calculated in completely different ways, can they do at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U74	Thank you very much. I'm glad this argument has reached this hall. I am pleased that this dispute has reached the media. I am pleased that this dispute has reached the table of our administration in several ways. I would be even better pleased if the Riigikogu were to consider supplementing HKMS.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U75	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable performer! You have stressed on several occasions that this proportion in the Commission may arise in one way or another, that is to say that members from outside the Council, or non-elected members, may also appear to be in the majority of the Commission. Although, then, the question arises as to where the logic of democracy is, because when the majority has taken the lead, it should, according to that logic, also be a majority in the Commission. However, the question that arises relates to the fact that, when it comes to proportions, just as a good colleague asked how the number of members from outside the council could and could affect certain political proportions or logic at all. In my opinion, one logic takes place pragmatically in such a way that potential coalition partners or representatives of political forces may also appoint not the members of the council but the persons entrusted by them and entrusted by them. This actually suggests that this initial proposal should be very, very well in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U77	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U78	Thank you very much. I am pleased to note that in many of the basic regulations it is in place this way. That's it. That's it. If, for example, these rules are well thought out in the Statute, and if, given the proportion of seats received in the elections, the number of seats on the council is approximately determined by one, the other or the third electoral federation or the party, then he himself will decide whether a member of the council will go there or, for example, a specialist or someone who has applied, but this time he has not received a mandate. This is probably one of the best possible solutions, which makes this rule better to say the principle, or principle, to which to strive to comply. So undoubtedly for those municipalities who have left this subject unregulated or regulated in the statutes in such a way that problems are frequent and unsolvable, it is really worth following the example of the statutes of Tallinn, Tartu and other municipalities, as these things are probably well regulated from the surface of experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U79	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U80	Thank you, Chairman. Good and respectable Chancellor of Justice! I very much share this last position because, in fact, the lists are always longer. I myself have considered the envoy group to be members of all those who have applied. But I have two quick questions. First, the municipalities now became bigger. Is and how many times have you been approached about this principle of proportionality and how many of these appeals since this last amendment? The second question: what do you think is right in relation to proportion, whether the number of votes received in the elections or the number of mandates received? In fact, there is already rounding and smaller ones always lose in favour of the larger ones. How many of these proportions should be taken into account for the internal distribution? What could be the basis for the votes cast by the voters or the number of members already on the council?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U81	Thank you very much. The question of the number of complaints and appeals. I'm afraid I'm wrong. These appeals have also taken different forms. There are always cases after the local elections. After all, these cases are also the result of the increasing accuracy of the Local Government Organisation Act. Usually, the introduction of a new norm, a rule restricting local self-regulation, is a reaction to some cases in some areas. How can this proportion be taken into account? The provision of the law states that the proportion of political parties and representatives of the electoral federations will be taken into account in the council. Perhaps it is important to take into account how many people who applied for the list made their way to the council. How can a fair committee be created if the Statute allows people to be appointed from outside the Council? Now that's a controversial question. There are several different options, one referred to by Mr Kruus.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U82	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U83	Good Chairman! Your Honor, Chancellor! It has become more and more apparent to me recently that this opposition- coalition presence in local government is one major problem. There are a number of ways to overcome it so that this opposition coalition is 'theme-based'. One example. With regard to the election of the chairman of the committee, the law states that the chairman and vice-chairman must be elected at the same time. However, if the opposition does not present the candidate for the Vice-Chairman, there will be a situation where the whole thing could be sunk. What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U84	Thank you very much. If you don't mind, I'll start with a very short digression. This is the kind of question I first encountered in 1997, when we started making reports for the Committee on Legal Expertise on the Constitution. Very often this question arose, what happens if one or the other body fails to comply with the Constitution, does not fulfil its obligations to what happens then. There is no other answer here, except that the functioning of our country and society as a whole is still based on the fact that we all, as people, as workers and officials, are trying, and also as your politicians, trying to do our best to fulfil our constitutional and legal obligations and to act on our conscience. So there's not much better answer here. If you're looking for a normative answer, there's another good point. I have been asked many times, but how can a council vote in favour of a committee that they do not support, for example, if the majority of the council does not support the law and the opposition gets some seats? Leaving aside the possibility of recourse to the courts, I also read from the current law that, on the one hand, it is really the exclusive competence of the council to approve the composition of the committee, as well as the decision on what committees exist at all, and the election of their chairman and vice-chairman. On the other hand, there is one constitutional provision in the Local Government Organisation Act in this very specific area, namely that a council member is governed by the law. That should be the good point. I believe that your conscience could still be a judge, and in the long run, at least my observations to date show this, the people will also judge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U85	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for these answers and for extending this issue, also by talking about documents that are not given to council members, because they are for internal use only. This motivates me to ask one expanding question. Should the internal control of the municipality provide the Audit Committee with current information on all audits in progress? How to assess or explain the Tondiraba case, where the audit prepared with all signatures was classified for five years in essence? The mayor didn't just take it to the city hall, and it couldn't move to the elected representatives either.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U87	Thank you very much. I don't know about automatic motion. Once again, I would say that it is probably possible to agree on these issues in the Statute. I myself have worked at the National Audit Office and know that the control plan is generally public. If there are some sectors in the control plan that should not be announced publicly, then at least the National Audit Office has a partner committee in the Riigikogu who can also find out about these planned audits, their focus and generally the methodology used and what is being looked at. I imagine that this analogy is also applicable to the local council if you wish, because given the limited competence of the National Audit Office in controlling local government transactions, the audit committee has a very high level of responsibility. If he doesn't get the information, then I think it's pretty difficult, if not impossible, to do this job on a high-quality basis. As far as the Tondiraba Sports Centre is concerned, I read with great interest the reports about the session of the Special Committee against Corruption in the Riigikogu, including the statements of the President, Mr Herkel. I'm not into these documents myself, but what you're saying makes sense. Whether the arguments of the other side are correct or not, I cannot say because I am not familiar with the materials. But in general, it seems to me that the general principle could be that council members have the right to information. The members of the audit committee should certainly have the right to know about ongoing audits, albeit their results.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U88	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U89	Thank you. Your Honor, Chancellor! Thank you for visiting Kohtla-Järve a few weeks ago! A really big job was done for us. But I'll come to the question. I mean, in recent years, the law has protected council members who have remained in opposition, but the election results are confirmed by the election committee, i.e. all council members have the same opportunities and rights. Do you not think that there might be a situation in the future where the law will dictate to the MP how to vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U90	Thank you very much for a very good question. Should such a draft arise, I shall immediately declare, on the basis of my official duties, that it is unconstitutional. The visit to Kohtla-Järve was really a pleasure, so thank you for inviting me!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U91	No further questions for the Chancellor of Justice. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Jüri Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I don't think I speak for the real questioners, but that's one way to put it. I must admit that the situation we are in is not only weird, in which case we can laugh at it, but it is such that we should shed tears. Our country has been restored for 25 years, and it is ridiculous, to say the least, to say the least, that after the municipal elections, the councils are not being properly employed. There is no reasonable explanation for this, because what is done or done in committees then, but the full composition of the council is not related to the decisions of the committees, in that sense there should be no debate here. I have to admit, I don't understand. But I understand that Narva is the third city in Estonia. If this third city is not able to get the local authorities to work properly, it is scandalous. As far as Viimsi is concerned, Viimsi is undoubtedly one of Estonia's most outstanding parishes, but in essence it is still the Tallinn district, although it is not officially part of Tallinn. The Viimsi Council is currently chaired by a person who, in his so-called political favours in Estonia, is person No 1. If he can't make things right at the council he's under, what's the matter? I have been a member of the Tartu Council several times, there have never been this type of problem. That's why it's completely incomprehensible to me what's causing these problems, whether some personal offenses, some kind of spite, psychological power struggle, or some other fourth or fifth. I can't understand. The problem in general is that, after we have had an administrative reform, we have had fewer municipalities, among other things the institutions of rural and rural governments, the question arises as to whether we have any supervision of the activities of the local government at all. I know that there has been a theory in Estonia since the beginning that the local government is so superior to all other human activities that it cannot even be suspected that something would go wrong there, let alone that there should be supervision. But in general, there must be supervision in administrative matters. Monitoring has a variety of traditionally established forms. If, for example, a person is not satisfied with an administrative decision, he or she should first have the opportunity to lodge a statement of opposition. If he still disagrees, he should have the opportunity to appeal to the decision-maker's superior at the council level, at least this should be the council's plenary. But the question is that there may be a need for an even higher appeal, but after the supervision of the country elders ceases, there is no provision for any supervision at all. So I would now predict that, just as we suddenly got into a situation where after 25 years of state existence, there are problems on council committees that we should not really discuss at all, so we are also unexpectedly in a situation where Estonia has actually stopped, but formally, any supervision will cease from the new year. There hasn't been a new one, and there's probably gonna be a lot of violations, violations of rights and all kinds of crap in this area over the next few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U93	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U94	Thank you. I shall then say a few words on behalf of the heirs and thank the Chancellor of Justice for his answers. In view of what has taken place in some councils, these answers were very timely and necessary. I don't know what to do now. One way would perhaps be to begin to reconstruct the categorically-sounding wording you referred to, which was in the original version of the COKS in 2014 and which was lost in the Commission. On the other hand, it goes against the way I introduced my own questioning. It would be best for all of us if the rights of the opposition at any political level, whether in councils or in council committees, were understandable, and every Riigikogu should not make changes to ensure that what should exist in normal political culture is guaranteed. I might even understand that Narva is culturally different, and that's where these things arrive more slowly. Mr Korb is certainly better informed about what is going on in Kohtla-Järve, but I have also received a reference that in Kohtla-Järve, the formation of council committees had problems with the protection of opposition rights from their point of view. We have not extra-collected these problems, but there seems to be much more of them in Estonia than the examples we mentioned in our inquiry. The second conclusion or follow-up, which could follow, I do not know who should do it if there are no others, the Free Party may also think about it, is some kind of bad administrative practice award that these councils deserve. That would be public attention. Jüri Adams must have confused the position of Siim Kallas here; he is not the chairman of the council, but he is the governor of Viimsi parish and he is certainly the principal leader of the Reform Party in Viimsi, whose honour the existence of such a problem should prevail in Viimsi municipality. Not only is Taavi Kotka, even a highly respected person, the President of the Viimsi Council, but he has also seen these problems through. I do not know that there would be some kind of abuse against opposition representatives. Finally, one more comment on supervision as such, which is likely to soon become a problem in the municipalities due to reform and its confusion, and probably also because the performance of these tasks, which were previously carried out by rural governments, is somewhat vague in the current situation. We would not be surprised if the office of the esteemed Chancellor of Justice has to take on more and more important functions in relation to local governments here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U95	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U96	Good vice chairman! Good Chancellor of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen, Our inquiry today has touched very much on the nature of our political culture. Both Viimsi and Narva are examples from which we can say that there are huge gaps in our political culture. We have remained in the last century, in the reign of the previous regime, with our affairs and developments, and I think that this is wrong. We have repeatedly and repeatedly touched on how to influence this political culture in this Chamber. The only and best solution that we have now come up with is that we need to talk very seriously about the funding of political parties. Because if we do not reduce the amount of money (EUR 5.4 million per year from the state budget), then political parties will not look to the electorate with their own governance, but to securing their comfort positions. That is something we must definitely stand against in this Chamber. Indeed, the expectation of the Chancellor of Justice was that, although the electorate would punish such behaviour or these examples would not become practice. However, normal life shows that bad examples have become everyday practice. We need to talk about them as openly as possible and to make them aware that such things do not become part of the everyday way of life. Yes, I myself wondered whether what we have seen here was the result of the administrative reform, but unfortunately Viimsi and Narva are the municipalities that were not affected by the administrative reform. This is rather a bad example for the new municipalities, which are now greater in terms of population and, hopefully, in terms of influence. What other methods could be there to change the local government culture? It is, I think, to do the same in our Chamber, that we should make the nature of the municipality independent, so that it is not dependent on different budgetary and tax changes. My idea and proposal is that we should turn municipalities into our governments so that they can decide for themselves, on the basis of their revenue base, how to share resources. If trust in the community is high, opportunities could also be created for municipalities to ask for different mandates from their electorate for a revenue base. These methods exist in different ways in the world, but we have not created mechanisms or methods to make municipalities more flexible in this matter. Perhaps that is the problem that, if there is no responsibility, there is no opportunity or courage to decide for ourselves, we will create zones such as these so that the opposition does not ask for opportunities to be smarter, more active and more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U97	The right to rejoin is on Valeri Korb. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U98	Thank you. Since Mr Herkel named my name and Mr Kohtla-Järve's council, I would like to tell my colleagues, for information, that 5 out of 25 council seats belong to the opposition and that the council has 6 committees. So all members of the council who belong to the opposition work on committees. I would like my colleagues to hear about this. I repeat: all members of the opposition work on committees. I would also like to say that, at the second sitting, when we discussed the members of the committees, the members of the opposition did not take part in the vote. So if we are talking about committees that work on the council, I would ask what is going on at the Kohtla-Järve Council to be more specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U99	Andres Herkel is probably developing the same subject, he's entitled to it. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U100	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Korb, for this information. I would point out that there are two problems. One is whether the council members are represented on committees. The second is whether the interests of opposition representatives have been taken into account proportionally in the committees. This may not be the case, as we know in Viimsi's example, if only those representatives of the opposition who are simultaneously elected to the council are accepted as members of the council committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U101	If the Chancellor of Justice does not wish to speak, I will close the debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U102	The third item is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Martin Helme, Henn Põlleaasa, Uno Kaskpeiti, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Silla concerning the cutting-off of hundreds of thousands of people from e-services. In the name of the heirs, please, Raivo Põldaru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U103	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Much water has flowed into the sea since November 6. 6 November was the day we submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology. At the time, the issue was that the state had allowed the problem of ID cards caused by a security error to be solved during November so that people could continue to use e-services. Unfortunately, the situation did not resolve so quickly and a number of people had a problem before updating the so-called software that their ID card did not work. Frankly, looking back a little bit, there were problems after the ID cards had been updated. People were either incompetent or technical, but in many cases they couldn't use the services, people just got into trouble. Perhaps our questions are a little old because situations have changed. But, unfortunately, new problems have also arisen and they continue to arise. Now there are questions about breaking and entering, questions have arisen that one or the other e-service still does not work. So it's not like we can beat on the chest that we've already done everything and we can rest. But we asked five questions, and I hope that the Minister will give them constructive and perhaps future-looking answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U104	In this hope, I call the Minister for Entrepreneurship and Information Technology Urve Palo. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U105	Hello, Honourable Vice-President of the Riigikogu and Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'm gonna answer the EKRE's inquiry, and I'm gonna start right now. The first question: 'Why is there a situation where only 15,000 cards can be renewed per day and the renewal of cards at risk of security stretches to months, during which hundreds of thousands of ID card holders cannot use e-services? ' That was the first question. I'll get it. As of today, it is true, it is a Friday's state, today this figure is likely to be even higher than that of over 340000 people who have renewed their ID card, 260000 of them by remote renewal (they have not had to go anywhere, to the Police and Border Guard Board for example) and 80000 at the service points of the Police and Border Guard Board. The remote update application has been working very well since the second week of November and no major failures have occurred. During the peak load at the beginning of November, the number of innovators on the web reached 27000 per day, which was significantly above the 15,000 initially announced. As a rule, IT developments require much more resources, both time and people, than we had in the short term. We have had to find the best and fastest solution under limited conditions. If, under normal circumstances, it takes several months to test the systems alone, then now the situation has already arisen, in fact, that there has already been a situation where both ID card users and e-service providers are involved in public testing. In the sense that there is no time to test in advance, but that the service is immediately made public, that there is both substantial work and testing at the same time, and that if a problem is identified, it will be resolved in the course of the work. Things have been repaired and patched in "live," as stated in Estonian during the process. It's been an emergency. The possibility of remote renewal, that not all people need to physically go somewhere to renew their cards, is a unique solution in the world. On the other hand, it has its limitations. Since a highly secure solution must be used for remote renewal, where encrypted data exchange takes place between four parties, the Police and Border Guard Board, the State Information System Authority, the card manufacturer Gemalto and the certification company SK ID, only a limited number of people can use it at the same time. When several tens of thousands of people tried to renew the card at the same time, problems arose from time to time. In addition, monitoring of the usability of the ID card is important. According to the National Information System Authority, the use of e-services, authentication and digital signing have not decreased despite the initial failure. The cards weren't closed, they stopped the certificates. The suspended certificates can be reactivated by remote renewal. I'm going back a little bit in history. In September or late August, or even early September, it turned out to be such a security risk, and we recommended that everyone do mobile ID in addition to their ID card. At the beginning of November, the security risk had increased further, but we decided not to close these cards, but to stop them from being used. This means that if a person started using an e-service on a computer and wanted to identify himself, then the computer software announced that the use of the card had been suspended and that before he could identify himself, the card had to be updated by remote renewal. This opportunity was then, and it is today. This opportunity will be open until the beginning of March next year. The second question: "Couldn't this situation have been predicted sooner? Why was there a risk of security? ' It is true that Estonia's e-state is based on trust. To build and maintain trust, people need to be honest with each other. We always have to talk about dangers. That is why the state has been very open and honest in explaining everything about the ID card. We are e-state trackers; in no other country, e-services do not have as much as we do. People are used to it, it's made our lives more comfortable, we save time and money. We do things first, we get hit first, we solve problems first. We learn from our mistakes and then teach others. It's basically, you know, our success story. We're direction indicators. It is not technology that makes Estonia an e-state, but the way we use it. We can see that several European countries have literally closed hundreds of thousands and even millions of cards because of the same security risk, without having caused a major response, because there is no such e-services and people did not have much difference as to whether the ID card was working or not. But when we had some problems with the renewal the first few days, people missed the ID card. It may not be right to say, they were rather disturbed. This shows what e-state we are and how many e-services we have offered to citizens. Question 3: "Who and how is responsible for the situation? ' Estonia received information from scientists about a possible security risk at the end of August and had to find a solution within two months, because so much time had left until the detailed description of the security risk was made public by scientists. It worked. The software, which does not allow us to exploit the weakness of the card chip, was completed at the end of October. Maybe we were able to create this software in two months, even a little faster than we promised. It's really remarkable. The problem is that wearing new software on all cards is simply not possible overnight. It's gonna take a while before we get all the cards updated. As the threat assessment changed But we didn't have to close those cards, we just stopped using them. We stopped using security-risk cards so that people still have the possibility to renew them remotely at home, and there will be time to do so until March next year. However, closing would have meant that the card should have been physically replaced by going to the Police and Border Guard Board. By stopping the certificates, we have achieved that the security risk in Infineon's chip cannot be exploited against any Estonian ID card holder. A card with a suspended certificate cannot be abused, someone's digital identity cannot be stolen, and people's data is protected in this way. At the same time, a person does not have to apply for a new card, but can renew an existing card. However, it will not be able to use e-services until an update is made. It is estimated that the renewal will take about 10 minutes and that there will be no more queues for today's renewal. Although the problem of ID-cards focused on solutions, we did not have time to look for culprits, rather we had to focus quickly on finding solutions, a process was launched to find out the producer's responsibility and possible sanctions against the ID-card supplier, whose chip was affected. It is also publicly known that the Police and Border Guard Board has made an initial claim against Gemalto, a manufacturer of invalid ID cards. This is handled by lawyers representing the Police and Border Guard Board. Question 4: 'If the state recommends using mobile ID as a solution, has the state considered compensating the person for the creation of a mobile ID account and the fixed cost? ' In Estonia, 5000 public and private e-services are an integral part of people's daily lives. So we have 5,000 public and private e-services. However, the fact that the current situation has caused inconvenience to our people shows, as I said earlier, that we are actually an e-state where people are used to using "state-related" services without leaving home. If we come out of the current situation in such a way that many people have mobile ID in addition to their ID card, then we are definitely winners. It would once again be a completely unique situation that the country is actively using two parallel tools for the use of e-services and digital signature, and if either one of them has a future problem or security weakness, it will be possible to use another. The state has worked very closely with mobile operators and several options have been discussed to facilitate the conclusion of the mobile ID contract. Mobile operators increased their service volumes, and the possibility to activate their mobile ID at the service points of the Police and Border Guard Board was created for those who wanted to do so without having to go to the mobile company's office. Mobile ID, however, is an alternative solution and is not a mandatory tool, unlike an ID card. At the moment, ID cards can be renewed without queues, and a person can, as I said earlier, update their card certificates in about ten minutes or even more quickly. Mobile ID may not be useful for those who use its functionality maybe a few times a year. However, it is an additional and alternative option for a person using the service closely, which can be used, inter alia, if the ID card is not accompanied or is not equipped with a card reader computer. When applying for an ID card, the person is obliged to pay the state fee. The country may have made the ID-card mandatory, but it is not granted free of charge, but the person pays the state fee when applying for the ID-card. In the case of Mobile ID, the state fee is paid by the mobile operator, not by a person, and the mobile operator distributes the payment of this state fee to the user for a longer period, so that the person pays over a longer period of time. The state tax exemption has not been considered by the State either for the ID card or mobile ID. Question 5: 'Since the security risks of the ID card have proven to be higher than those of the public, should e-elections made with invalid ID cards be cancelled in the light of this information? ' Based on today's knowledge, none of our ID-card users' digital identities have been stolen. There is no such information for me or for our agencies, because I believe that I would know it, too, which is why the credibility of e-elections is not a question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U106	The round of questions will be started by Henn Põllaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U107	Thank you. You said the country found out about these problems at the end of August. Gemalto, the manufacturer of these ID cards, has stated that they warned the PBA and the RIA on 15 June. Do they have any evidence to support their claims or any documentary evidence? You said that the Estonian state has brought them certain claims for damages. How far-reaching do you think it is to be able to obtain damages from them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U108	Thank you for your question. As far as I know, the RIA has not been shown to have received information from Gemalto on the potential risk of security earlier than at the end of August. I and the Prime Minister were immediately informed about this, and a few days later we already informed the public. I've also read through the media myself as if Gemalto had previously informed the RIA and so on. It has been refuted by the RIA and Gemalto has not provided any written confirmation to confirm what has been said in the social media. So I don't have that kind of information. I have heard that the person who gave such misinformation changed Gemalto or that he no longer does Estonian business, but it has also reached me through the media. So the answer to the question is that it has not been confirmed that this information has reached the RIA earlier. I have no reason to believe that the RIA would be lying today. The second question was about the costs that the state has incurred in eliminating the potential risk of security. Can we get compensation from the card supplier? It is dealt with by the PB because they have signed the contract with the card supplier. That's what they do, I believe, very good lawyers. I still hope so, of course, otherwise there would be no point in making a request. I believe the lawyers are doing their job and the results are good. We'll see.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U109	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U110	Thank you, good vice chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Maybe you'll explain a little bit about the connection between the faulty card and the software. The map, I understand, is Gemalto and the software we produced. Did we have to make changes, or did they make a bad card according to good software, or how is it? Secondly, you're saying the identity of the ID card hasn't been tampered with. But have you heard in the media that message ran somewhere, that maybe one of the men in Tartu who is able to crack the ID card has done it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U111	Once again, as far as I am aware, I believe that if I do not know this, our respective institutions will not have broken the ID-cards of Estonian citizens either. So this key hasn't been broken. I don't have any information about any lab tests. But I do not know that the ID-card of an Estonian citizen and this security code would have been tampered with. I don't know that. This is the first part of the answer. I would like to remind you of the first part of the question. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah! The sequence is that the PBA has a contract with Gemalto, who supplies these cards, who in turn has a contract with Infineon, who supplies this chip on the map. The mistake was actually on that chip, but since Gemalto has a contract with Infineon, we have to process Gemalto. This chip error, I understand so much, a statement in conjunction with the software that's on it. It was therefore possible to keep old cards in use after the software was updated. Maybe it's like a faulty chip, but it's safe with the new software.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U112	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! Why was government communication, both domestic and external, so inadequate? As far as national communication is concerned, there has been a great deal of confusion with these priority cards in order. In fact, the right communication would not have been very confusing. The service points of the PBGB, which were open this weekend, were not overcrowded, but inside the country they were able to give the impression that this was, on the one hand, only an Estonian problem and then there are also structural problems. But I think it was worse the damage to reputation that occurred outside Estonia. First, these faulty chips were not only delivered for Estonian cards; second, in Europe and more widely, it was treated as a specific Estonian problem. Does the Ministry have the willingness to recover reputational damage among the so-called claims that you mentioned?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U114	It's a very ungrateful job to assess the damage on the land because of the way you put it in the numbers. But I would say, honourable member of the Riigikogu, that I cannot agree very much with you here, as if we had suffered great reputational damage. We acted very decisively and quickly and revealed a possible threat practically immediately. In retrospect, you can say it was the right thing to do. The credibility of Estonia's e-governance was not damaged, on the contrary, this image became even stronger because we showed that, in the event of problems, we would speak openly about them and act decisively. There have also been many words of recognition and compliments from outside, and Estonia's e-governance reputation is much stronger than it used to be. We know there isn't one thing in life that's quite certain. As I said earlier, the e-state remains in trust, depending on whether the citizens trust it or not. This trust is because we spoke honestly and openly and acted very quickly and effectively, rather stronger than before, I dare say. So we only got stronger anyway. Today, most people who use e-services every day and need identification to use these services, be they medical workers, police officers or private sector representatives, have two identification options: ID-card and mobile ID. Plus, many of the national services that could only be used with an ID card that could not identify themselves with a mobile ID, for example, a digital prescription, are now all available with both. So when we talk about the credibility and security of the e-state, we can say that we are absolutely certainly stronger than before the end of August.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U115	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U116	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I also asked you in writing how, in June, when the alleged telephone call took place, there was an exchange of information that there was some kind of danger. Thank you for that answer. But I'm going to ask you a further question, because there are some things left open. In your letter of reply, you highlighted the analytical capacity of scientists and their conclusions, but you did not say what this assurance was for you and on what basis scientists started analysing this information before Midsummer Day in June. How was this "control" process? It's summer vacation season, and that's what's been dragging on. As the future showed, this piece of information was true. You have outlined the Austrian report. How did you get to it with Google's help or someone sent it to you? How did this analysis take place to make it clear that this was a wrong report?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U117	Maybe now something went missing in the translation, I didn't quite understand the question. But I once again assure you that I have no reason today to believe that the information that the RIA has provided to me could be incorrect. They were informed of a possible security risk at the end of August or a few days before we informed the public. As far as I know, this information wasn't received earlier by the RIA.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U118	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U119	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You said in your speech that Estonia has learned such experiences and lessons that can be shared with good friends. What, then, are the lessons that the Estonian state has formulated for itself after this incident with the security risk of the ID card?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U120	Thank you. Once again, the e-state is based on trust, trust must not be abused, and we did the right thing so that we immediately started talking about the problems and made them public. That was right. It was not a bad lesson, it was a good lesson, it could be a good lesson. Secondly, I think that perhaps was a very important lesson from the e-services side. After all, the state could have thought in the past that very important vital services, à la digital prescription, could have worked with two identification systems, both mobile ID and ID-cards, so that if anything happened to one of them, life would not stand either for doctors or for people who need a prescription. Also, the work of many employees of the PBA, I understand that, was only linked to the ID card, they were unable to identify themselves with the mobile ID. It was certainly one of the most important lessons that people who use these services every day could have two means of identification, and all these systems should work with both options. In my opinion, this was one of the main lessons. I'm glad it didn't work out. Now we're smarter and stronger anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U121	Thank you. Dear Minister, Indeed, the story was with a relatively happy ending for Estonia, the threats were eliminated and we certainly learned many lessons, as you said. But I am very interested that, since this was a matter of technical danger and something very critical did not happen directly, the critical situation did not arise, was it justified, on an ex post assessment, that communication with the people took place at the level of the Prime Minister, at the highest level, or would it have been more peaceful to communicate at the level of officials and to warn through the media? Perhaps the situation would have resolved much more easily and, let's say, less nervously.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U122	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U123	I think that this decision, which was made, that it was spoken of at the highest level, was particularly correct in retrospect. At the beginning of September, we talked about the danger. When the Prime Minister talks about such a thing, there is a greater chance that people will take it seriously than when an official in the field speaks about it. Later, however, we were forced to stop these cards, we did not cancel them, but we stopped them because the security risk increased. It showed that we assessed the situation adequately when we talked about it at the highest level. Despite the fact that we talked about this at the highest level to show that the threat is serious, and asking that people, make yourself a mobile ID and prepare for problems, for example, in the first week, a lot more mobile ID contracts started to be made, but in the second week, it was back to the level that was before we talked about possible security threats and please make contracts. People did not take it seriously enough, even though the Prime Minister spoke of it. So I think it was right, and it was right to talk about it so openly. Imagine if it had happened that somewhere at international level the work of scientists would have come up, which would have claimed that there was such a risk of security on Estonian maps, and on top of that, our politicians and authorities would have said that yes, we knew it and we are doing it quietly here. Then the credibility of Estonia's e-governance would certainly have been a great blow, because if we have been hiding things, we will probably continue to hide things. But now it's when we said we know there's a threat, and we're already on the move. It was not possible to say that the Estonian country was being concealed and whipped, on the contrary, it was clear that its citizens were being treated transparently, that things were being announced, that what was being done was being said, and that they were being told how it was going. At that time, it was decided at the study session how to inform, either at the highest level or through the administration. This decision was made on the basis of the best knowledge that we are still talking about it at the highest level, because it is serious. In retrospect, you can say it was the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U124	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! When you answered the questions of the previous questioner, you also very much highlighted the facts that the country has learned and which have perhaps been done wrong in the past. Do I correctly conclude from your answers that the state was not sufficiently prepared for a threat that could be ambushed if one system falls away, for example because of technical failure, security risks or whatever, as happened last time, and there is no alternative parallel system? Am I right to conclude that the country was perhaps too comfortable and perhaps too confident about the functioning of the systems? The state may have thought that Estonian IT solutions were perfect and very low-risk, which is why there was no need to prevent threats and let them go "a lot easier." Am I right?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U126	Well, it's also the case that afterwards there's always more wisdom than at first. I would say that, of course, this could have been thought of years ago when all these e-services and this whole principle began to be developed. You could have thought about a "back-up" or a backup plan right away. You could say that in retrospect. I'd say it's a good thing it came out now, and it's a good thing we've solved this problem. Here's what I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U127	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The Police and Border Guard Board, or the PBGB, has sent a letter of intent to the Finnish diplomatic mission of Gemalto, which produces Estonian passports. Can you elaborate and tell me what this is all about? Gemalto OÜ is a manufacturer of Estonian passports and this letter was sent last week. Can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U128	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U129	Thank you, good questioner! Honestly, I don't know, because I don't have the PBA in my jurisdiction. I'm sure the Minister of the Interior can answer that question. I really don't know how to comment on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U130	Minister, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. There are no requests, I consider this question procedure to be concluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U131	Fourth item: Consultation of the members of the Riigikogu Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Külliki Kübarsep, Ain Lutsep, Artur Talvik, Monika Haukanõmme, Andres Herkel and Jüri Adams on the implementation of scientific policy decisions of the Scientific and Development Council report (2015 Oki report) regarding the Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics (No 394). Please speak on behalf of the speakers of the chair Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U132	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Madam Minister! There are three major questions in this brief question. One of them is indeed concerned with the Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics (Language: KBFI), which is familiar to many from the old age and also known as the Lippmaa Institute. It is a unique and very strong research institution in Estonia, which is the second largest research institution in terms of both quantity and quality. There is a very interesting problem with this KBFI, which has also been highlighted by a number of non-institutional and non-research evaluators. In particular, this research organisation does not receive public funding for operating costs. And he's not getting it because KBFI is the only public research institution that has its own law. As we know, we have our own law in some higher education institutions, but also one research institution. I dare say that it is even incomprehensible why KBFI does not receive money as operating expenses. This issue has been on the agenda since 2006 when the board and the management of the institution have been looking for an answer to this issue. Here we can draw conclusions and ask a number of questions. Has the state knowingly solved it this way, or what is the reason? KBFI is a success: it has excellent scientific achievements, the fruits of which we all enjoy. He helps our science to succeed internationally, but the state does not pay him money for operating costs, unlike other institutions. The second set of problems relates to our scientific policy decisions. They were, of course, very seriously on the agenda in 2015, after the completion of the TAN report, which has become known as the Ok report. The report gave a clear recommendation on consolidation to research institutions, as well as to higher education institutions. In this light, a task force was set up at the State Chancellery to develop recommendations on how it would be optimal and right to carry out such consolidation. At the same time, several institutions have also prepared their SWOT reviews on who, how and under what conditions it would be possible and recommended to join. The question here is that the merger decision on the KBFI was taken, although the merger of the KBFI would require a much more serious scientific policy debate, as it is a public institution. But the big question is where we are going with our research policy in the first place: whether we are continuing towards consolidation, i.e. abolishing smaller research institutions and keeping only the research units that are concentrated around higher education institutions. The third round of questions arises from the previous one: who is still making these scientific policy decisions on the merger or non-accession of institutions? Is that the minister? Are they going through the Scientific and Development Council? And I'll come back to the KBFI again. This KBFI operating grant should be decided whether the institution will be merged with the Tallinn University of Technology or the University of Tartu. I fear that without this operating grant, universities will not be able to move this research facility forward. Thank you. We expect answers from the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U133	The three questions of the inquiry are answered by the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U134	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good questioners! Since Mrs Krista Aru has already described these topics and proposals in a very thorough manner, I shall cancel the larger introduction. I will immediately go to questions and answers, which will certainly show the attitude of the Ministry of Education and Research in general as well as those related to the Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics. First of all, your first question: "KBFI is a unique synergistic research institution, Estonia's only research institution operating under its law, where the volume of research carried out is the second largest in Estonia in comparison with all institutions. What scientific purpose does the liquidation of this institution serve as an independent research institution? What are the complaints about the research and development of the institution? ' In answer, I can say right away that there are a number of assumptions in the questions you have asked, which we certainly cannot agree with. No one has a plan to liquidate the KBFI and no one has any reservations about the research and development work of the KBFI, which is very good. It is clear that the level of research carried out by the Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics is very high, and this is confirmed by the results of the 2017 International Evaluation of Research Institutions. At the same time, the pros and cons have been analysed in both cases: if the KBFI were still an independent institution or if it were a member of one or another public university. Why has the merger been analysed? Let's start right here at the Riigikogu. The Estonian Research and Development Council strategy "Knowledge based Estonia" (TAI) has been approved by the Riigikogu. It provides for support for the development of responsibilities of higher education and research institutions, structural changes, a focus on strategic core activities and the organisation of a network of institutions, as well as increasing the responsibility of research institutions for the performance of their activities. It is because of this 'Knowledge-based Estonia' objective that KBFI's merger has been recommended by both the Ok report and the questioner's reference to the Scientific and Development Council in its decision of 20 September 2016. The merger has also been recommended to be considered by the Chair of the Regular Evaluation Committee of Research Institutions in 2017. So much for the background. The wider incentive for opening accession negotiations was due to the aim of linking science more with teaching and entrepreneurship and to broadening the impact of research beyond the academic sphere. The NICPB itself has also repeatedly raised issues necessary to ensure sustainability. The Ministry of Education and Research and the KBFI are invited to negotiate with both universities, both the University of Tartu and the Tallinn University of Technology, agreed that the aim of joining the University of the Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics should be to increase the international competitiveness and impact of Estonian research and development through synergy from the merger. The Technical University has pointed out that, in cooperation with KBFI, the aim would be to become one of the leading technology universities in the Baltic Sea region. The aim of KBFI's accession to the University of Tartu is to bring Estonia's top-level physical sciences together as the leading scientific university in the Baltic Sea region. In addition, the possibility of strengthening communication and cooperation with companies when KBFI joins has been more widely highlighted, using the technology transfer capabilities, competences and contacts available at universities. In this case, KBFI services and infrastructure opportunities could also be provided for the wider target group. It has also been pointed out that the merger would help to integrate more research and teaching and support interdisciplinary cooperation between the relevant fields of the KBFI and universities. It would also increase the financial stability of the KBFI if it were part of the university. This would also ensure a significant increase in the external financing and business contracts of the NICPB. In addition, the merger has been highlighted as a positive way of optimising research organisation and administrative burden and making more efficient use of resources. The spatial proximity of the KBFI and Technical University Campus would allow the development of daily cooperation in a smooth and resource-efficient way. It is also important that in the light of the full membership of CERN, it would be useful if the KBFI were more closely associated with universities. This would allow CERN to exploit its full membership opportunities in R &amp; D, study and entrepreneurship. Looking at the positive side of the situation, it can be said that these are important research policy objectives, which is why this accession has been very seriously considered and analysed. Now your question No 2: 'KBFI has prepared SWOT analyses on possible merger with UT and TUT. The analyses show that the formal merger of KBFI with any university does not improve the quality of the research carried out. On which and whose decision does accession to the TUT take place? ' As has been said, I would emphasise once again that the objective of a possible merger is to link science more with teaching and entrepreneurship and to extend the impact of research beyond the academic sphere. It is also important to look at the needs of the institution in order to ensure sustainability. There are no problems with the quality of research in KBFI. I also disagree with the estimated argument on this point, as if the analysis does not lead to an improvement in the quality of research carried out at any university through the formal merger of the KBFI. If you look at these SWOT analyses again calmly, you can see that in both directions, joining the Technical University or the University of Tartu would in fact exceed the potential benefits of joining the University of Tartu in terms of losses and risks. Joining the University of Tartu would further support the objectives of academic research, while joining the Technical University would more support the objectives of developing the quality of teaching and entrepreneurship cooperation. From the point of view of the shared use of infrastructure and in terms of location, it would make more sense for KBFI to join the Technical University, but as I said, there would also be a lot of pros when joining the University of Tartu. Now we're getting to the other side of the SWOT tests. It is clear that neither the Ministry of Education and Research nor the Riigikogu can even discuss unification at any cost, as it is a public university. Accession makes sense only if the benefits outweigh the potential damage. In the event of a merger, the objective can only be to ensure a favourable working environment for research. If we look at the current situation, a merger at all costs would certainly mean damaging the established strengths. The OECD has carried out international analyses of the consolidation of research institutions. There's a lot of them. And the analyses clearly show that successful and with good results are the kind of mergers where consensus has been reached between the parties, i.e. collaborative breathing. In the case of mergers made by force, no significant increase in pros and quality has been seen. The negotiations so far show that established relations may jeopardise the achievement of the objectives. The KBFI has also submitted very demanding conditions (e.g. in relation to full membership of CERN) that would enable it to join. Universities of the Ministry of Education and Research are currently not prepared to fulfil these conditions to this extent. For my part, I can say that we want to avoid a situation where the problems of accession remain largely open or will be borne by the country in the future. It can therefore be said that as long as there is no understanding that accession is interesting and beneficial for everyone until there is no consensus, the Ministry of Education and Research is not prepared to say whether and when accession would be the best solution for all parties. What do I mean by that? In summary, the position of the Ministry of Education and Research is as follows: the pros and cons of the merger have been analysed and the subject will be dealt with further. But as long as it's not clear that it will benefit everyone, there's no point in joining forces. I'm sure that would hurt the research community. The third question: 'KBFI is the only legal entity governed by public law to which the State does not pay any so-called box money or operating subsidy. TAN entrusted HTM with the task of resolving this issue as early as 2006, and KBFI raised the issue again in 2016. The 2017 Estonian evalvation report highlights the need to solve the financing of the KBFI and a personal letter was sent to the Minister of Education and Research by Professor Enss, Chairman of the Evalvation Commission. The issue remains unresolved to this day. What is the reason for this distinction that has been going on for years? How does HTM plan to solve the so-called box money issue of the KBFI operating grant? ' With regard to the assumptions and attitudes set out in the question, I can say that the Ministry of Education and Research does not discriminate against KBFI in terms of covering infrastructure costs. We treat KBFI on the same basis as all other public research institutions. A similar approach was made by KBFI to the Chancellor of Justice and he has also found that the state budget finances the indirect costs of KBFI's R &amp; D activities, including maintenance, upgrading and upgrading of R &amp; D infrastructure. The volume of financing by KBFI in the state budget has doubled over the last five years, which is an exceptionally good result given the overall state of the research budget. KBFI has also received EUR 2 million from ASTRA for the reconstruction of the house. The Chancellor of Justice has stated that the KBFI has so far successfully applied for funding from the state budget on the basis of the TAKS and it is not known that this money from the TAKS, combined with income from other sources, would not cover the expenses of the KBFI. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U135	The first question to the Minister is asked by Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U136	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I will clarify the second question of our inquiry. With the help of my benchmate, I have brought myself up to date and learned that the doctoral students of the Technical University are already doing their work at the KBFI. What else can be said about the convergence between the two organisations, or why? And I'm sorry, but in all my respect for the Minister, I still have the feeling that such decisions are made mainly by one person in Estonia. This is Rector Jaak Aaviksoo of Technical University. Has he made his decision, and has the Ministry already taken it as a basis for its action?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U137	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, KBFI has a pretty good relationship with both the Technical University and the University of Tartu, but both universities have somewhat different activities. Doctoral students are on both sides, research is often done jointly and, as I have repeatedly emphasised here, the results are very good. The Plussi-minus table, or SWOT analysis, shows that it would be possible to extend the research in KBFI to universities on the plus side. This would certainly strengthen both the University of Tartu and the Technical University. Both parties, both the University of Tartu and the Technical University, have said that KBFI's knowledge baggage, practical basis and everything else would mean benefits for them. This is also the case for KBFI, if the university would in turn be willing to provide additional funding for their specific activities. Now for the merger decision. In the case of one university and another, as well as in the case of KBFI, it is a public body. They have their own laws, which means that such a decision can only be made by the Riigikogu. The decisions of their merger cannot be taken either at the Government of the Republic, at the TAN or at any other level. In reality, however, this still means that the highest management bodies of these bodies must first be interested in the matter, and then they should all negotiate in detail at the level of their councils and content departments. In general, such mergers have taken years when we look at the experiences of other countries as well. A ready-made decision and proposal would probably have to come to the Committee on Culture, which in turn would look at the pros and cons. Only then would there be a legislative amendment. So the reality is that no matter what one or the other analyses show, as long as these institutions have not jointly agreed on all the details, the Riigikogu, including the Committee on Culture, is certainly not prepared to make any decision. This is not a political decision; it is a purely substantive decision. There will certainly not be any party views here, because relations between KBFI and universities are fortunately science policy, not party politics.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U138	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U139	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! We are aware in every area that at one point the European Union will run out of resources. Hence the question: what will happen in the area of funding for Estonian research policy? What plans have you already set? Do you have a team for change? And who will finally decide what the basis for funding research policy will look like if there are no European Union funds or if they have been reduced to a minimum level?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U140	Thank you for a very good question. Both in the country as a whole and in the ministries of industry, quite in-depth analyses are being developed to shape an exit strategy. Of course, the Ministry of Education and Research has a special interest in looking at the field of science, because science is very dependent on euro money. When we look at the proportion of funding for Horizon and science in general, it is sometimes about 50:50. The statistics for 2016 also show this: if the funds did not open up at enough speed, which all European research institutions were concerned about, there was an immediate marked decline in our research budget, too, because our dependence on euro money is so great. At times when UCITS are at the top and all the projects and programmes have been opened, we are very, very successful. When we look at the 'Horizon 2020' interim report, we see that Estonia has been very, very successful. We are also very successful in the quality of a single scientist, but unfortunately, it fluctuates quite a bit. In peak years, there has been a relatively large amount of money inflow, but in intermediate years, the picture has been a little less frequent. What kind of chances do we have here? First of all, since we are about to close our Presidency, I dare say that the whole of Europe is looking towards the next, ninth framework programme with extreme optimism. Research and innovation are an area where both the Commission and the Council have great ambitions. It's not tomorrow, it's maybe the day after tomorrow. The next programming period will be at least as ambitious for research and innovation. All countries have also made it clear that Brexit must not have such a major impact on research and innovation. And as we know, in the pillar where science is located, it is also the highest proportion. So we are optimistic about the next framework programme, where Estonia is very likely to be very successful. But, yeah, we're gonna have to deal seriously with the exit strategy. This is also one of the reasons why we have devoted every additional million to basic funding. This allows very large fluctuations to give basic money to research institutions so that they have some stability to maintain their own research institutions, as well as more breathing space at peaks. That is the current background. Do we have a complete document? No, not yet. It is being dealt with, i.e. looking at and analysing how much, and during what period, we need to provide science and other areas with additional resources so that the amount of money is not reduced so sharply.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U141	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Madam Minister, for these answers. I would like to clarify this issue of operating support for the KBFI. You argued a little while ago that the amount of money allocated to the KBFI, as well as the state support, were actually greater than the overall increase in the science budget. Where, then, has the idea come from that KBFI will lose the operating grant to which it is entitled as a public and very successful research institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U143	Thank you. This question is, as you said in the introduction, on the table for years. There are very clear differences of opinion. Indeed, the financing of the KBFI is slightly different. But if we take public universities, there will be no more such thing as operating grants in their previous form. They have training costs, etc. Currently, KBFI does not have the costs of learning activities that large universities have. There's been a discussion about that. As a R &amp; D institution, he is very, very well funded by the TAKS compared to others. So the Institute is among the most successful and its funding is now proportionally better than the others. But the cost of learning activities, such as contracts with universities, does not exist in this form and in such volumes. The Institute has more to do with doctoral students. This has been the subject of a dispute and the Institute has addressed different bodies. Of course, there have also been discussions at the Ministry of Education and Research, but so far there has been no common and good solution. This case cost dispute led to an analysis of the pros and cons of KBFI and university merger. Actually, that's where the first proposal came from. If we talk about the long term and we get to the bottom of this base money, I hope that in 2019 the Riigikogu will also be generous about research money, then we can solve this problem. Our ambition is to give institutions sufficient stability. Perhaps then the KBFI's concern for its box costs will also disappear. But let's just say that this will definitely be further specified in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U144	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I understand that by 1 March 2018, some report should come from the task force of the State Chancellery that appreciates this consolidation. You have already described the chain of decision for us here. I have a question in this regard, which then depends on this report. What do you expect from it and what status is it? At times, it seems that decisions are made somewhere in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U146	I believe that the most important thing for the task force report is this, I have also tried here to highlight some of the benefits and disadvantages of SWOT analysis, so that we even map out the picture that exists and understand what it really means. Now for what's happening right now. KBFI has sent out a rather demanding letter with its proposals. We're waiting for college answers. In addition, broader consolidation issues need to be addressed separately. As we know, in addition to the KBFI, there have been further proposals on which consolidation would or would not be needed. Have the decisions been made? I'm sure the Task Force won't make any decisions. After all, there are other task forces and they deal with topics that are very close to the heart of the members of the Riigikogu: the care of people in need of help in society and many other very painful problems. The Task Force still comes up with proposals that the State Chancellery collects as the best knowledge. And what happens next is for the ministries of the field and finally for the Riigikogu to decide. What kind of pressure do I put here? I think that the task force will be a proper initial set of analyses that can be used to make decisions if there is the will of all parties involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U147	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U148	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, How will the funding of centres of excellence continue, as they depend on European funding? Here is another question: are there plans or research topics ready to be closed? If so, who will choose these topics and decide? How does it work?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U149	Thank you. Estonian research funding decisions have still been largely up to the scientific community itself. We are shaping the policy in the Commission, which is looking at this funding in larger areas. The Commission is very broad-based: it has representatives and specialists from all universities in a number of areas. The highest level that can give advice and make proposals is the Scientific and Development Council, which is chaired by the Prime Minister. Below is a quality agency and others. As a result, the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications are responsible for research policy. As regards the centres of excellence, we have a range of measures that we have tried to find the most important areas of science for Estonia, to focus limited resources more on priority areas. Who has chosen them? As I said, the decisions are made by these selected circles, committees involving representatives of the scientific community in different fields. There is a big debate to find compromises, and everyone is like dissatisfied. Usually those who do not get the first round of selection are dissatisfied. And the rest of us who are looking at it are saying that research funding is not effectively squeezed together enough and that there is still no choice of one or two areas that it makes sense to single out separately. As the questioner knows very well, for example, information technology is one of the areas selected in Estonia. There's a couple more of you. But when we look at what is being funded in science, not all projects are in the field of information technology. After all, we need to keep many areas of science 'on the wicked'. In addition to so-called competitive science, we need to keep research policy alive in areas that, according to the CC or the quote, are not so successful. It is clear that Estonian language, Estonian memory or other issues of national cultural importance must also be close to our heart. And the end result that a good questioner will know is that we are unable to make choices that are acceptable to all. Some believe that we should target most of the resource to one area or another, but we have also tried to keep most of the mediocre activities at some level. That is what has been the biggest object of the debate. Would we be able to mobilise resources more efficiently in the future? I don't dare say it so strongly today. We have mobilised resources through competitive programmes. But there will also be criticism of this, because often Estonian scientists are very successful, but they have joined some European affairs. There is, in turn, a question of how much we can direct our own research policy. But I can tell you what is very clearly the direction that I see both at the TAN level and in cooperation with MKM: how to make science, including basic science, more useful to society in the wider sense. This is a direction that is currently clearly supported by business agreements. The Ministry of Education and Research also recognizes the more practical side of science and cooperation with entrepreneurship, also in the key to administrative contracts with universities. That's the direction I'm looking at right now. It doesn't exactly match the subject of centres of excellence, but in a broader sense it does. And that may have been the greatest expectation. When we look at the 'Horizon 2020' Pan-European Interim Report, we can see that it also shows that the greater impact of science on society and growth is what is most expected. Perhaps an inquiry is not the best form for discussing scientific topics, perhaps we should do so in another form. An exciting debate is, of course, how similar consolidation, cross-cutting issues are being sought in other parts of Europe through a mission-based approach. And especially interesting is the fact that the Commission wants to propose them in March-April 2018, i.e. immediately. There is something else in this mission-based approach: there is a desire to find European directions and then to develop them together and in a consolidated way. This is perhaps one of the most interesting issues related to competitiveness: Europe versus the rest of the world, not in its current form, but in its long-term perspective.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U150	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable Minister! Certainly none of those who have remained in this hall dispute the need for scientific funding. Before, we had a serious debate here on the financing of pig farming and, in view of this, I had a further question. What is the reason why the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Rural Affairs have not been able to agree on additional funding for veterinary education at the University of Earth? Everyone knows that the current funding cannot sustain it in a sustainable way at international level. At the same time, we can see that there are issues (including pig rearing) where public funding is fueled by public passion. The amounts that go to veterinary training and what the university really needs are many times lower. What is the reason why this problem has not been solved? Is there any hope that this will be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U152	Thank you. A good questioner certainly knows very well what the ranking of the priorities of the Ministry of Rural Affairs is. As far as I know, the Ministry of Rural Affairs has been submitting this to the Ministry of Finance for quite several years. For more than ten years, it is certainly in law that the cost of the part of the veterinary faculty, which provides 24-hour guarding in a large animal clinic, should be covered in cooperation with the Ministry of Rural Affairs. This 'cooperation' means that the Ministry of Education and Research has increased the coefficient of veterinary training and will also help with investments. And as a good questioner certainly knows very well, all the quality requirements are met. However, constant maintenance costs should be covered in cooperation with the Ministry of Rural Affairs. The Ministry of Rural Affairs has made proposals to the Ministry of Finance if it has not received support for this priority. Why is the issue still unresolved? A good questioner knows he's been in the sea for many years. I have been able to deal with this area for one year and one budget. And, unfortunately, under this one budget, we did not receive any support from the Ministry of Rural Affairs. The application was half a million, which is a considerable amount for the Ministry of Rural Affairs. As the debate on the country's budget strategy will start again in the near future after the end of January, by March the first round will be over, we will certainly raise this issue again. The Rector of the University of Life Sciences has asked for a three- or four-way meeting so that both the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the University of Life Sciences, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, can introduce to the Ministry of Finance why and to what extent additional funding is needed. I am, of course, concerned about the University of Life Sciences because, at the moment, veterinary science is working with its extra costs clearly at the expense of something else. So far, they have worked in many ways on their own income, but since Finns now study there a little less, their income is no longer so high. In the past, people were admitted to paid places of study and thus covered the necessary expenses, but now the veterinary profession is already living at the expense of other faculties. Of course, a veterinary flagship is a very good specialty for a country university in terms of reputation, but there are limits to everything. I believe that in the case of the four-way meeting at the beginning of the year, there is hope that we may be able to introduce this need to the Ministry of Finance. But why didn't the Ministry of Education and Research want to sign it up for half a million administrative contracts? For more than ten years now, the whole point has been that, for example, medical training in clinics is part of the health care system, no one thinks that the University of Tartu should maintain the clinic constantly. A similar model could be used for veterinary purposes, according to which the Ministry of Rural Affairs should partially assist in 24-hour surveillance at the animal clinic. We also see this from examples in other countries where support is available both from local self-government associations and from rural areas. That's the situation right now. Why is the problem still unresolved? I believe the questioner even knows that this is a budgetary process. It is likely that this issue in the budget has remained either the second or the third priority. That's the way it's been.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U153	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U154	Thank you. Dear Minister, R &amp; D and innovation arising from it are fundamental challenges in our near future. It is very important to invest in R &amp; D in the current growth phase of the economic cycle. There was also a conference on innovation recently in Tallinn, where it was pointed out that Estonia has a major problem of applying innovation to a wider consumer, which scientists should deal with. And here's the question. Right now, in a context of strong growth, more investment should be made in R &amp; D. At present, this percentage of the government sector is less than one per cent of gross domestic product. We should be able to invest more in science. What's your position? Will we be able to invest more in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U155	Thank you for a very good question. First of all, in Europe as a whole, the ambition to reach 3% is, unfortunately, modestly represented. If we look at the whole picture, 28 Member States, there will be a 2% border. There are shortcomings in the private sector, which should put 2%, as well as in the public sector, with a percentage of one. Very, very few countries have come close to such funding, most of which are far behind. That's the general picture. Not that the pieces of school can be missed because someone has not done them yet. I am just saying that, unfortunately, the overall picture across Europe is worrying, which in turn means that Europe as a whole is lagging behind in competition. I am thinking here of Asia and America. Of course, we also have reason to be critical here in Estonia when looking at statistics. Our own R&D&I strategy identified 1% as a target in the public sector, of which we are behind. And in the context of economic growth, we could have had a clear strategic objective at all times for years, which, for example, we are following very closely in terms of defence costs. Such a firmly fixed desire has been in a number of strategies, but unfortunately it has not been followed in this form. Rather, the approach has been quite jumpy. In some years, ministers consider this a priority, in the meantime, the subject will go down a little bit, and then it will come up again. So the disunity can be referred to as criticism. In addition to this 1%, which is not yet full, and for which we now have an ambition of a considerable difference of almost 60 million, we unfortunately have an even greater concern with the private sector. If you look at our private sector, it is extremely bad: we are very far from that 2%. In countries where the public sector has more or less managed, criticism has been given that not all innovation has been highlighted in the private sector. If development is not mentioned in the private sector, it is a statistical problem. But we must also take into account the fact that we have small businesses that simply do not see such a high return on investment in innovation and development. That is the main problem. But what do we see on the positive side? This year, investments in basic financing increased. I am very grateful here for the committees of the Riigikogu as well as for the Scientific and Development Council, which has supported the ministers of the field. Our wish is for this to be the case not only in the HTM, but also in the MKM. Financing all basic science is very, very important and we must bring in the innovation side together with MKM. Firstly, this side must grow and, secondly, we must find new solutions. This is very positive, which we will see for a long time this year, and entrepreneurs will invest again in their development after several years. I need this moment not to get out of hand and I need development to continue. I believe that all the task force and initiative groups, the panel of experts at the State Chancellery, have asked the business community (also through EAS) what should be done to initiate and strengthen development activities, these measures are very important. If you ask what we can do, we will try to find ways for businesses to continue to invest in their development to become smarter, more efficient and better. This is the only way for us to be competitive. I believe that if we move resources to development not only through HTM but also through MKM in the public sector wisely, the effect in the private sector may be exponentially greater than even the difference that we are currently short of 1% in the public sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U156	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. I'll open negotiations if that's what I want. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U157	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Madam Minister! I thank both the Minister and all my colleagues for this beautiful debate. It is a pity that so little is listening to us here, because the subject itself deserves even more and more attention. I am very pleased that this whole debate went a little wider: the overall picture of our science was touched, including the University of Earth and the final capacity for innovation in research. What is perhaps the most disturbing and lacking in our research policy now is ambition. Looking back to 1909, Estonia did not even exist. Estonia was two Tsarist-Russian provinces. But what dared they say? It was then dared to say clearly that Estonia could be great in its spirit, and the basis of this spirit is the science of the 20th century. And it was also seen that science could carry our societies by then. I am not talking about 1919, when the reopened University of Tartu was made a major and internationally valued research centre as a national university and an Estonian-language university from the first day on. Alongside this, it was also seen that a small country needs a great deal of dialogue and different opinions in science. The Estonian Literature Society and the Animal Farmers' Association, for example, were also encouraged to become research centres in order to strengthen the horizontal capacity in science. We are now moving on a completely different path and saying that we are consolidating and taking all such institutions to higher education institutions, even though we do not have a proper impact analysis. Is that good? Is this good for Estonian science? Is this good for the Estonian state? Is this good for innovation capacity? We don't really know that answer. A lack of ambition may not appear and will certainly not be avenged because we have very strong scientists. We have a very strong company that will drag our wide-ranging science, but all of this could be disastrous to us in the country's mind in a few decades' time. Another major issue is the exit from the strong financial support of the European Union. How do we proceed with our research centres of excellence? With our horizontal multiplicity, are we going to stop funding top science? What do we expect from top science? These are so important problems that disputes in this regard should actually be initiated and concluded immediately. Also, the question of the Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics. I have a deep and big request for the Minister to discuss this before the final decision is taken. I know that this institution itself, too, does not object to its merging with some higher education institutions, but it must then be a reasonable and sensible political decision. As I have heard from the Minister today, he also supports a decision that is considered and very well founded. On the other hand, after more than 15 years, this issue of operating aid should be resolved in such a way that there are no differences of opinion. The worst thing about science is that there are differences of opinion and misunderstandings about a matter in which they really should not exist. Especially when it comes to a research organisation that is strong and valued for all its research activities. So, power! And I hope that we will discuss research issues here a lot more and more often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U158	I will conclude the debate on this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U159	Fifth item: Inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Jüri Adams, Külliki Kübarsep, Monika Haukanõmme, Artur Talvik, Andres Herkel and Ain Lutsepse on possible changes in the assessment of the state examination of the Estonian language and its links to the Estonian language strategy (No 404). Please speak on behalf of the speakers Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U160	Mr President! Madam Minister! Good people's representatives! I am pleased to give you a summary of the next question. Fortunately, the Ministry has already responded to this question through the press. In particular, that the proposal of a member of the National Examination Board or chairman, as if the spelling was no longer the subject of the assessment, especially for one part of our National Certificate of Language Proficiency exam, is not so quickly accepted or introduced. What's the danger? After all, the danger is that anyone who does not know the language may not understand it very quickly when reading it. The knowledge of spelling rules and functional reading skills are not precluded by one. If we continue to compromise on our national exam in our own language, it is dangerous both for the future and for today. That is why such a fast press statement, as if the evaluation of spelling was no longer important, caused much concern, and rightly so. That also raised questions about us. Perhaps the most important questions are how we appreciate such claims, which rightly cause resentment in terms of our language strategy or the development plan of Estonian language, how mother tongue teachers learn about such a process, and how much the Minister and the Ministry can even contribute to the selection and assessment of the members of such an examination panel. As we know, the issue of importance and weight, such as the assessment of the state examination, should be examined by the Minister's desk. So we have five questions here, and I know that the next question is the same. I hope that the Minister will also be able to give us an exhaustive and very precise answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U161	Please, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U162	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! First of all, I would like to tell you that sometimes evening news is quite exciting, especially when it comes to education and research. I can say right now that I, too, do not support the fact that we are always trying to reduce the demands in one area or another, whether in the case of assessments or examinations. Estonian spelling is under discussion today. Spelling is certainly something you need to learn during your studies, and it is not easy. Fortunately, the Estonian language is also complicated enough; it must be learned with respect. This is also a matter of our writing technique. As we know, we have had a lively debate both in favour of and against proper handwriting, especially in social media. The requirements for assessing physical education, for example, have also been discussed. Surrender as a response to one or the other proposal will certainly have very serious consequences. So we have to weigh these things ten times. I will now come to your questions and answers. First of all, the first question:'Functional reading skills are necessary and important in modern times, but how does it conflict with the knowledge of the spelling of the Estonian language? ' Functional reading skills do not conflict with the ability to spell Estonian. On the contrary, the knowledge of Estonian as a native language and national language is very important and functional reading skills are wider than mere reading and understanding texts. The Ministry of Education and Research will make every effort to ensure that graduates of upper secondary schools master their native language, Estonian language, both in speech and in writing, as the national curriculum states. Neither Innove nor the Ministry of Education and Research has given a message that knowledge of spelling is irrelevant. The state examination of the Estonian language will measure two skills with separate parts: writing skills and functional reading skills. Both skills are essential to a person's success in life. In order to assess functional reading skills, the exam includes text and test tasks. Their choice must be discussed and decided what to do with the next exams. The examination organisation of the current academic year cannot be changed as the students have not been informed of any changes in the examination organisation at the beginning of the academic year. On 15 December a meeting took place between the Estonian Association of Language Teachers and the Innove Foundation. The representatives of the Society also considered it possible to develop an evaluation system that would make it possible to specifically highlight the result of reading skills, taking account of spelling errors in reading. About 120 word summaries of functional reading are expected in spring 2017. The representatives of the Estonian Association of Mother Language Teachers, however, have criticised the lack of involvement and the short notice period. We agree with the company that such changes should not be made in the middle of the academic year. Changes to the examination arrangements shall be clear and known in advance. They must not cause problems if they are to be explained to the public. At the meeting, it was agreed that the Society of Estonian Language Teachers will submit proposals to the Examination Committee for the revision of the Evaluation Guide by 22 December and the Commission will reconvene on 27 December. We have ordered the Foundation Innove to significantly improve its involvement in the preparation of the examination work. It is also necessary to ensure that teachers are informed in good time of the changes. Second, " On the basis of what studies, analyses and views did the panel at SA Innove set out the view that spelling was not relevant to the assessment of the reading task? ' The proposal by the language and test experts of the universities, which was forwarded to Innove SA, was based on the idea that the assessment of the state examination should be transparent and that feedback on the partial skills should be clear and adequate. This request for transparency would probably require a more precise approach, but the experts certainly did not want to communicate the message that spelling errors should not be taken into account in the examination results as a whole. The technical problems of the tests in the development work have always led to positive and objection, but the Commission certainly did not have a message in mind that had reached the media and was quite out of date. However, it is important to find a solution for the examination, according to which the spelling errors of the entire test work would be recorded as points for spelling. What the panel specifically takes into account in its work is their decision. In general, the Ministry of Education and Research does not control the Commission's proposals. The assumption is that they have the best knowledge. The Commission will reconvene the proposals on 7 December. Third: 'Do you recognise as natural that the evaluation committee of SA Innove has the right and competence to design the level of proficiency in the Estonian language? Was this proposal discussed with the Estonian Association of Language Teachers and the Estonian Language Council? ' The Commission is obliged to draw on and do a national curriculum when preparing the examination. This clearly delineates the Commission's competences and rights. The curriculum itself has been widely discussed with stakeholders. The Commission is independent within the given framework and the Ministry has so far not intervened in the work of the Commission. However, the Ministry considers it necessary to make public in this situation that the proposed proposal may be technically feasible, but gives a false signal to society. Therefore, a new solution must be found, which would, of course, have been discussed with the Estonian Mother Language Teachers' Association and which would have been notified to teachers and students in sufficient time. The Ministry has also provided such guidance to Innove SA. This issue has not yet been discussed in the Language Council. Fourth: 'What parameters, and according to which methodology, will the state examination of the Estonian language be shaped by the timeliness, anticipation and content of the state examination? ' State examination is based on the national curriculum of the upper secondary school. The State Exam will be renewed with the curriculum. The external evaluation of learning outcomes must, inter alia, support learning and ensure that the evaluation that is passed on to the learner is clear and transparent. Fifth: 'How does the substantive and organisational aspects of the state examination of the Estonian language relate to the substantive objectives of the new development plan of the Estonian language? ' The draft development plan for the Estonian language area aims to ensure that Estonian residents want, receive and can use Estonian in all areas of life and speak foreign languages. I quote the draft development plan: 'Estonian language teaching must be purposeful, the learning content supporting its achievement up-to-date and support the development of language and literary competence from the acquisition of spelling to the formulation and expression of personal opinion. ' The acquisition of functional language skills must be ensured. The main objective of Estonian language teaching at all levels of education is to design informed language users, ensure the continuity of the use of Estonian language and the ability of the Estonian language to function in the Estonian cultural space. The teaching of the Estonian language must develop all skills: writing skills, including spelling, listening and reading skills and speaking skills. The content of the state examination of the Estonian language must correspond to the national curriculum, demonstrate objectively the student's proficiency in the Estonian language, including clear and correct self-expression. The State Exam is the so-called High Contribution Exam, as the result is the basis for continuing studies at the next level of education. Good language skills provide the learner with better opportunities to continue education in the desired field and helps to succeed in the labour market, but also maintains the reputation of the language and supports its use in various areas of life. Estonian is a constitutional value and cultural value for Estonians. As the number of speakers in Estonian as a native language decreases, the conscious and supportive attitude of every person who speaks it as a mother tongue becomes increasingly important in maintaining the vitality of the Estonian language. Estonian teachers, but also all other teachers who teach in Estonian, have an important role to play in conveying the Estonian language. It can be said that language teachers are also all public speakers and writers, including on television, radio, and journalism. The language used in advertising, the language of opinion leaders, culture and entertainment have its influence. The state can support the use and development of the language, provide opportunities and resources for it, but the decision to use the language is made by people themselves. The vitality of the Estonian language will persist if people who speak it as their mother tongue have sufficient motivation to use and develop the Estonian language and to pass it on to their children both in Estonia and abroad. The Estonian language is protected by law and we also want to protect it by our decisions and actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U163	The first question relating to this question will be put to the Minister by Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U164	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! If you can and can, please answer how I think this crazy idea has come up. It's not like anything's coming up in the middle of nowhere. Has any research proved that otherwise students with very good functional reading skills suddenly become poor in spelling? How can such a thought arise? I feel sorry for the Ministry because this committee at Innove has put the Ministry, especially the respected Deputy Chancellor Mart Laidmets, in a rather embarrassing position. Please explain where it all started!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U165	Thank you. The current system is that the State Exams are the responsibility of our Foundation Innove. So, of course, the Ministry of Education and Research is responsible, but he has given the organizational side of the state exams to the Foundation Innove, where the examination committees operate in every field of the exam. The National Certificate of Language Proficiency Board is nine members. Proposals for members will be presented by partners in this field, universities and the same association of native language teachers. The Commission is made up of such respected people. The association of mother tongue teachers has two members on the Commission, but the rest of the teachers involved are all highly respected specialists. How do such proposals come? As a minister, I heard the same news about this exciting proposal and the resentment of the mother tongue teachers' association. I know these people personally, and of course I respect them all. If such a matter has been raised by such honourable people, then the Commission has therefore proposed it. This proposal was born out of the Commission's best desire to subtract points from skills. In this way, the child would receive a grade for the spelling part, as well as separate grades for the reading part from the point of view of the text and for the part of self-expression. The combined assessment of the mother tongue would be based on these partial ratings. So behind all this substantive proposal, this is how it has been explained to me, and to the Ministry of Education and Research, it was a purely technical desire to break up points sent for partial skills: here are the spelling points, here are the points of understanding of the text, and here are the points of self-expression. The Commission, probably at the moment when it was discussed, as I said, was not a final decision, it was a proposal, did not give sufficient consideration to how society understood such a technical decision and what kind of signal it would give. Our own mother tongue is such a sensitive subject and, in order to make any difference at all, a lot of things need to be discussed first. Where did the idea come from in December, before the spring exam, to make such a fundamental change? It is likely that this proposal was of a purely technical nature in the view of the Members of the Commission. Such changes are being made, as we have seen before. For example, they have often been done in mathematics: analysed last year's exam material and found that in one possible place it is necessary to increase the proportions of diagrams or points. This change of technical points was also considered in the case of Estonian language. At least I've had that kind of information. What can we learn from this experience? Firstly, we certainly do not want to give a signal that the examination committee, which brings together the best knowledge, cannot make exciting proposals. We do not want to create a situation where we say don't think big. Last year's state examination shows (this has happened several times in mathematics) that one or another proportion of the exam work is out of place or needs some kind of change. We actually want the Commission to be prepared to make proposals. But we must certainly think about how to communicate such 'black proposals' to society in order to understand: they are being brought to the debate, they are not final decisions, they are still being negotiated. It is necessary to establish a more robust system so that it should not take less than a year to reach a final decision on such a proposal, i.e. negotiations. That's the kind of thing we can learn from here. Every time society reacts so strongly and rightly to something, we have to draw our conclusions. One thing is clear: let the Members of the Commission make their own proposals, but how the proposal becomes a final decision, we need to think together calmly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U166	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The positive aspect of such unexpected proposals may be that they are inspiring.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U168	Deal!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U169	And they inspired Peter Helmet last week to classify basic human strategies as four in a radio commentary. These were'made-made','made-made', 'considered-made' and 'considered-made'. As Minister, are you also prepared to give your assessment of the Innove Commission's strategy that which of these four were the basis for and which of these you intend to implement as Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U170	Thank you. I have to say that sometimes it comes to mind the Riigikogu about ten years ago, where such exciting debates were held. Is it "thought-thought" or "made-thought"? I think it's'made-thought'. But what would I say as a minister? I'll try to say what I think in a shorter and simpler way. As a minister, I certainly do not want to send a signal to any Innove Panel of Experts, or to any other committee in the field, that you must not make proposals. That is what they could continue to do. There are highly respected people from different fields and exams are being supplemented all the time. It's a fundamental change of signal that worries me. This idea became society's concern that the proposal is already behind the decision. It has often been the case that people have learned many things retrospectively. The Riigikogu once made such a great decision, according to which both 1 and 20 points of the state examination were passed. It didn't happen much before they started taking those exams. We are still living in a world where we have not been able to reach an agreement on what it was then. Such decisions, which affect a very large number of people, need to know exactly how the idea will become a real decision. This needs to be further analysed and is a fundamental issue, particularly in the field of education. Strategically speaking, in my opinion, an organisation such as the Ministry of Education and Research has the right to propose ideas with its agencies and panels of experts. Mistakes are not accepted because there is no error in education, but we need new innovative ideas at the same time. From the point of view of communication, it is most important that no one is aware that the Ministry of Education, its sub-offices, or the bodies of experts who advise it, will make decisions before they are accepted by society. This may be the most important lesson right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U171	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U172	Good vice chairman! Good Minister, can you tell us why the Estonian language development plan lacks an implementation plan? Can we assume that, according to this implementation plan, we can analyse whether or not we have enough English-language hours in schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U173	Thank you. First of all, on the language strategy in force until the end of 2017, I dare say that both the language council and the wider circles have done a very good job. There are numerous collections that analyse how much and what has been implemented, what have been the pros and cons. If you have any interest, we can transmit them to you. The previous Chairman of the Language Council, Birute Klaas, has also introduced them very well in their seminars. We can say retroactively that a number of things have gone well in implementing the language strategy that is still in force. There are some places that we can improve with the new strategy. For various reasons, unfortunately, the new strategy is still in the coordination circle, the so-called draft is still being discussed, but there must certainly be a specific action plan, or implementation plan, on which you have asked. At the moment, we are only in the initial phase of this strategy, so let's say this is the first coordination. But it is in the common interest of all of us that this document should be accompanied by a concrete action plan with funding objects. You asked me how many lessons we have in our mother tongue. It is clear from the practical discussions with the mother tongue teachers' association as well as other subjects that if, after independence, we introduced new subjects in the beginning, the volume of mother tongue and literary classes has now fallen the most, in very large proportions. Foreign language has grown strongly. We are proud of entrepreneurship or other subjects. We have health, social and human education, but unfortunately, the number of native language classes has decreased. For example, when I look at schools with in-depth training, it can be said that a foreign language is already taught proportionally more than the native language. And another problem that we can highlight is the decline in children's reading. Children's reading is a serious subject and the volume of literary hours has also fallen considerably since 20 years ago. Do we have the ability to increase it again? I do not dare to say this to you, because every discussion of the curriculum has led to arguments against parents. Everyone is concerned to say that the burden on children is very high and that it is not acceptable to raise it significantly at the moment. The curriculum's development work is carried out all the time and there is pressure to bring more compulsory subjects, but yes, the number of native language hours has decreased proportionally. There have also been some proper analyses of this in the context of master's thesis, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U174	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U175	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The question concerns the Institute of Estonian Language. What are we going to do with the Institute of Estonian Language? Are new tasks added to the Estonian Language Institute?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U176	Thank you. Thanks to this coalition agreement with the Estonian Language Institute, peace is in the house. We agreed that the Institute of Estonian Language will continue to be independent. I have also discussed with them myself on several occasions, both at the Ministry of Education and at the EKI, the challenges and opportunities there. First of all, the Institute of Estonian Language has taken on a much greater role in developing Estonian language technology. The Institute has opportunities to develop and strengthen the Estonian language and bring it closer to young people through social media and technological development. There are opportunities. There have been technical problems that EKI has needed to solve, from servers to electrical connections etc. The idea of consolidation also came from the fact that he had been a little distracted in the past. I think this idea of unification has been very good for the EKI. During the discussions, the Institute thought its work very thoroughly, carried out a self-analysis and came up very clearly with its proposals. So I do praise the Institute of the Estonian Language, which has very strongly improved its positions. In addition to what the EKI has already done very well with the scientific dictionaries and dialects, it is now dealing more with other topics. It is quite clear that there are very good people working there. If we're thinking about the latest major national bonuses, many of them are connected to the EKI. Thank you so much! We have also introduced the subject of learning Estonian as a second language, so that they can do more, for example, with maps of the subject area and help with glossaries. We have been seriously engaged in making the SCE more accessible and accessible through learning programmes. The dictionary of the right language should be more accessible to many technologically large people, and it could be the whole language technology base. The EKI has come up with very concrete and step-by-step proposals. Fortunately, we also have European tools for developing language technology, and I believe that it is possible to get quite good things in smart cooperation with the EKI. I think that the EKI is now thinking much more boldly than it was a few years ago as a result of the great struggle and the great political and public attention. They have made quite good and very specific proposals to the Ministry of Industry, plus a substantive side. In addition to being a language institution, EKI wishes to place more emphasis on research. We have substantially changed his statute in this direction. He is not only a language institution, he is also a language research institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U177	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madam Secretary. In one of your responses, you touched on the Estonian language strategy still in force this year and on the Estonian language strategy that will be in force next year, which is, as we know, being prepared for a very number of years. What are the reasons why this development plan stands, only reached the first round of coordination? In fact, this development plan should take effect immediately next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U179	Let's just say that there are very specific approaches expected from this development plan, and so-called pre-requisites have been circulating practically all this year. There has been no agreement on the extent to which and in what way it would be prepared to go to the coordination circle. That's why this development plan hasn't been sent out so far. There's been a lot of cooperation here. The Language Council has played a very important role. They have come up with a variety of proposals since it was a very general document that would include the language issue horizontally through other strategies. I would also like to highlight the expectations of different ministries who could be more responsible for language development in their field, from rural to environmental issues. But then they found it too scattered. New proposals were introduced, after which the document became too narrow. A compromise has now been sought. I must say that this process has been interesting. I have also met with the Language Council and experts from universities who have tried to explain expectations in one way or the other. It is simply that no good compromise has been found in terms of ambition since the definition of the role of Estonian as a foreign language and as a national language, the share of foreign languages in Estonia, the role of Estonian in higher education and science compared to English. It has taken time to find the appropriate wording for the removal of the development plan. That's why it hasn't been done so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U180	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U181	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. There was already talk about Innove and the service that Innove offers to the Ministry of Education. I may get a little confused, but if I remember correctly, Innove will get EUR 120 million from the country. Let me ask you this: is it reasonable to use taxpayers' money to pay such money for the advice he gives you, the ministry? Maybe there's a different way to do it, get this job done inside the ministry, and we don't buy in this service so expensive, especially when Innoves' buckets come in.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U182	This is a bigger educational issue. It could be said that 15 years ago, the direction was taken that the Ministry of Education itself was proportionate, i.e. compared to its sub-offices, rather a small institution and a lot of things could be done to sub-offices by means of administrative contracts. Such an organisational decision was made at the time. Innove was then divided into several sub-offices, but today it is a large and powerful organisation with several regional centres. There are more than a few hundred people working there. Very many of them also work in the regional Pathfinders. Is this budget ambitious? Yeah, sure. After all, Innovel also has a number of European projects, such as a career guidance project. The Ministry of Education itself would certainly not do better in all such organizational activities. But is coherence sufficient if, for example, there are problems, as you said? This has been discussed several times in the Ministry of Education in recent months. Let's take the same language. Certainly, experts here must have a very strong role to play, but of course we must not forget that the Constitution gives the Riigikogu the task of taking responsibility for the language. In turn, the Riigikogu has transferred this task to the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of Education and Research. It is likely that the Ministry of Education and Research, as the person responsible for the language field, should have more direct responsibility than the current administrative agreement, which in turn passes on this task. So it was a legitimate question. That Innove is inefficient in terms of the whole organization, I wouldn't say today. But the fact that he's a dissipated and very large organization is true.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U183	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U184	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! By listening to all your answers, I have the impression here that you are speaking in a 'conjectual' speech that this is only a proposal from the Innove Commission of the Foundation, which has not yet been decided at all that it is a debate involving various interest groups. At the same time, exactly a week ago, when this news came to the media at least in the 'Actual Camera', it was said in a very specific way that the decision had been passed and that a new examination procedure would be in place from next year. This was explained by Mrs Kristin Hollo, Head of the Foreign Evaluation Department of the Ministry of Education and Research. I'm a little confused right now. You're here saying no decision has been made, but he said in a very specific way a week ago that a decision has been made at the Ministry, a new order will come. Within a week, this conversation has completely changed. Let me get this straight. He's a little slouched, or are you trying to smooth things out and push more guilt on Innove?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U185	No, I'm certainly not pushing the blame anywhere. I'm going to answer you as I was going to answer your question. I'll get it now. In normal cases, the system has worked in a general manner so that the test and examination problems encountered in the examination process have been addressed to Innove and the test experts. In general, expert committees have reviewed their development every year, agreed things and then proposed solutions to Innove. It has been so explained to me that they have usually been final, because generally there has been no discussion on technical issues. I'm a little wobbled that we're talking about technical issues. However, these have always been substantive issues. This may be a division of points, etc. In this case, the Head of the External Evaluation Department is certainly not wrong: experts have proposed and Innove has received this proposal. This is usually the case. If there is a clear reason why the panel's proposal is not appropriate, both the Ministry of Education and Innovel will be able to report it to the Examination Committee and re-examine the proposal. Such arrangements are foreseen. So I will simply answer you: the concerns of the parties are expressed very clearly, and I personally do not support any concessions in the spelling of the Estonian language. Moreover, when young people are given a signal on a very sensitive subject, as if the spelling or related is no longer so important (whether it is one point or two points on the exam), it is very wrong. The examination committee has therefore been asked to reconsider this proposal. That is exactly the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U186	There are no more questions for the Minister of Education and Science. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U187	Honourable President! Honourable colleagues! Honorable Minister! First of all, good minister, I want to thank you for your answers. They were exhaustive, sincere, honest and objective for me. And I would like to congratulate the Ministry for its swift action and swift response on this issue. I want to address three things in my little speech, starting with the most important one. You see, good friends, there is no point in us doing big words from time to time in this Chamber about our constitution and its preamble if we allow such concessions, as perhaps, of good will, this panel of experts planned. It conflicts with our most important and most holy feelings, and it is good to be able to resist them in the bud and respond to such phenomena. Secondly, why it is important to react and why, in my opinion, much of the commentators and teachers responded very nicely and quickly, it is that the situation of the Estonian language is not good. It is enough to be a daily media consumer or media addict to see the decline that Estonian language has made in our media, how the role of language editors in online media has become virtually nonexistent, and what a bad example online media provides from the point of view of the Estonian language every day, every hour, every minute. That's, I dare say, quite scandalous at times. Unfortunately, in this two and a half years, I have experienced that Estonian is not used here all the time. This is likely to be one of the signs of the decline of the Estonian language. And the third thing, I'm going to go to the "generally lonely." I fear that these members of the panel will underestimate the young Estonians, our children. My son today took the test examination for the state test of Estonian at his school. I discussed this issue with him and asked if he and his friends had talked about this proposal, whether they have been happy about it and found that, oh, how cool, now we can get more points. He shrugged his shoulders and said no, it wasn't like a theme. Good young people are actually prepared to prepare their test responses in good Estonian language and to follow the spelling rules properly. They don't need the crutches that this expert committee almost wanted to shove into them. It's a good thing you're rejecting those crutches, Madam Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U188	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, thank the Minister for these answers. I just want to say two things briefly. The Estonian language, which is the language of a small people and a beautiful language, also needs ambition, the courage to speak it, to learn it, to speak it, to love it. And in my opinion, I agree with my benchmate, and our young people still have it. We simply need to set an example here, and we must also be bold about praising this language. And second, I want to encourage you. You are currently able to create, make, open new programs as a minister. I know that the Ministry of Education has a language technology programme and a national programme 'Estonian Language and Cultural Memory'. We go on with them, we don't leave them and we don't appreciate it, we say we need them more and more. And thirdly, none of our young people should become the owl from Winnie Pooh, who thought he was the smartest, but wrote his name to Ökul, and who did not understand that his watch string was the tail of the donkey. We don't want our kids to be like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U190	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to negotiate. The Minister doesn't have one either. I will conclude the debate on this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U191	The following question is submitted by Mart Helme, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Uno Kaskpeit, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild. On behalf of the heirs, Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U192	Dear Speaker of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, as many as there are in this Chamber! I'm starting to wonder that there's only one person here from the Social Democrats, yes, the Speaker too, I'm sorry! One from the Centre Party, one from the Reform Party and one from the IRL. The other two opposition parties, both the Conservative People's Party and the Free Party, have almost a whole composition. I am deeply surprised that the issue of our mother tongue is not of interest to the rest of the people. The subject we were asking about is exactly the same as the previous one to which the Minister replied. It is really borne by the very deep concern of what we heard about the media, as well as by the Head of the Foreign Evaluation Department and Chancellor of the Ministry of Education and Research. This, of course, raised a great deal of concern not only in us but also in the wider public, and literally resentment. That is why I am very pleased that the Minister has helped to alleviate our concerns and assures us that he, too, does not support the proposal not to regard the spelling of Estonian as important. We have a few questions here and we have already received some answers to them, but I would like to ask the Minister a few more questions, because the proposal that came from Innove is completely contrary to the Estonian Constitution. The preamble to the Constitution clearly states that the state must ensure the preservation of the Estonian language. Proficiency in the right language is an inevitable part of it. It is surprising that Innove's proposals came to the public without any filter from the Ministry of Education and Research. I'm not going to read our questions right now. Let's hope we get even better answers now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U193	The Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U194	Dear Speaker of the Riigikogu, Dear members of the Riigikogu, heirs! I will try to repeat as little as possible, and since the questions are quite similar, I will answer briefly this time. First questions. First: 'Why is the assessment criteria being mitigated based on the erroneous assumption that verification of functional reading skills also precludes the requirement to check the spelling of this part of the exam? " I have already spoken about the assessment of functional reading skills, answering questions asked by members of the Free Party. Hopefully, the good questioners have looked at the work of the 2017 state examination of Estonian language at the upper secondary school. It consists of two parts, the first of which identifies functional reading skills and the second of which is the 400-word discussion that characterises the student's text creation. Test technical problems are found in every examination development. I repeat: the Commission has not received such a message that spelling, or orthography, is not relevant to the state examination of the Estonian language at the gymnasium. Yes, it is. We are of the opinion that the understanding of what we read must be assessed, which is reflected in the correct answers. I will not repeat when the Native Language Teachers' Association came up with its proposals and what are the next steps. As I said in my previous reply, meetings took place in December. The problem is both inclusion and short notice, as well as the message that came out through all of this. The Commission will now renegotiate these proposals on 27 December. The second question: 'What are the benefits of these changes, according to the Ministry's assessment, for students to learn the Estonian language? ' The Commission did not argue that one part of the exam is more useful or important than the others, but wished to develop functional reading skills in a more precise and clearer way. The proposed changes to the debate have, of course, not yet entered into force. It should not be assumed that the Ministry, parents, teachers and students would not be interested in good Estonian language skills. They are. Good language skills are needed both for further learning and for proper communication in everyday life. In order to find a satisfactory and clear solution to the parties, the Ministry has assigned the respective task to Innove SA. Representatives of the Estonian Association of Language Teachers also expressed the need to review the evaluation guide at the meeting with the Innove Foundation on 15 December, but stressed that early involvement of native language teachers is required in planning changes. Changes must be clear before the school year begins; they must not be made in the middle of the school year. Question 3: "Why does the state want to send a signal to the students that knowledge of spelling is not important in some cases? " The state does not want or must send such a message. Regrettably, the debate on this issue has indeed turned out to be a very wrong signal. When using Veljo Tormis's well - known expression, according to which the word has power, it must be acknowledged that the media word also has a very large power. Inevitably, interpretation plays a major role. I repeat: Estonian as a cultural phenomenon is unique to all of us, and the Ministry of Education and Research will and must do everything to protect and promote the good native language skills of our young people. We must not send a message that it is not important to know the spelling. Question 4: "Which experts (persons or institutions) recommend relaxing evaluation criteria? ' The evaluation criteria are not intended to be relaxed if you use your vocabulary. There is a need to objectively assess how our young people understand different types of texts and how they can create the text themselves. After all, it would be good to be able to assess the oral language skills of upper secondary school graduates. A number of language and test experts from Tallinn University and the University of Tartu, as well as members of the examination committee, have referred to shortcomings in the evaluation organisation. This was also noted by representatives of the Estonian Association of Language Teachers. It is important to find a way to ensure greater involvement of teachers in the process of change. However, the changes must be meaningful, justified and understandable for every user of Estonian, especially here in Kodu-Estonia. I hope that the resulting ambiguity will be a constructive and clear solution at the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U195	Questions for the Minister. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U196	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! As the subject is being discussed for the second time, I will ask a slightly broader question relating to the organisation of the government's work. Indeed, the current composition of Parliament has dealt with at least twice through the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has eased the obligation to speak Estonian. This concerns, first, the possibility of submitting an application for legal aid by the State and, secondly, the arms law allows the examination of theory to be carried out by an interpreter. What discussions have taken place in your government in the example of the drafts that should preserve the foundations and values of Estonian statehood and also carry forward to future generations so that our country will last?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U197	Thank you. First of all, the division of labour and very clear directions. When the government discussed its coalition agreement, all parties took the view very strongly that language and citizenship, and, let us say, the fundamental orientations of foreign policy or defence policy, are those where major changes, or no changes at all, are not made, unless this is inevitable, for example, on the force of à la NATO or on any other substantive side. In the case of citizenship, there has been talk here in several configurations of the Riigikogu, particularly regarding children, so that we should not produce more citizenship. There have been no major changes in principle. Now, as regards the question of whether there has been a fundamental discussion around the arms law, it has not been very much in the language policy sense. The Ministry of Education and Research was justified in the same way as in the explanatory memorandum, which I am sure you have discussed in the Commission, that the reason is for safety. All those people living in Estonia who do not yet speak the official language must understand exactly all the requirements and this is absolutely necessary in relation to weapons. That was the reason. We do not want to offer any relief to the knowledge of the national language. At the same time, however, we have foreseen, as the good questioner knows very well, a number of measures to further increase the level of proficiency in the Estonian language. After all, we have had serious discussions several times here in the Riigikogu. As far as kindergarten is concerned, early childhood education teachers now have a strong emphasis on the issue of whether and to what extent we can support the teaching of Estonian in kindergartens. There have been many debates on how to strengthen the ability of the Estonian language as a national language.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U198	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U199	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I would continue with this comment that the reason why the language standard was so painfully reacted to is the background. This background is such that we actually have this kind of withdrawal from the requirements of the Estonian language, and in very many ways. But my question concerns something else. The results of functional reading have been in decline for years. For other exams, it is also clear that the results tend to go down, which also shows that skill levels are falling. The answer to this is, in a particular case, that we reduce measurement, make it easier. I don't think this is the right way. We also have a problem that the volume of Estonian lessons has been reduced earlier. It is also the case in higher education; doctoral studies are almost no longer in Estonian. What should be done differently in this phase of study so that skills and standards do not fall at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U200	Thank you, good questioner! You have now brought up a number of topics here. The first is about language. We have reason to be proud, and we have reason to be anxious. We have teachers, and the knowledge that is currently taught at school does not allow us to make any major concessions. The language knowledge of both teachers and students is constantly monitored through proficiency papers and tests. In general, the picture is rather good. There is cause for concern about what I have already mentioned. In fact, the volume of our mother tongue and literature has decreased over the past 25 to 26 years. Mother - language teachers have said on several occasions with concern that some of the very complex issues they have to deal with with children quite intensively, but in fact there could be much more time to discuss. With regard to functional reading skills, you said we had serious downfalls. Rather, both our analyses and international analyses show that, fortunately, more and more attention is being paid to it. The question is not absolutely whether children read, but whether schools work systematically to make sure that the child understands the text and is able to process it. If we look at the results of PISA, for example, it turns out that in schools where several years ago there were still weakest results, the situation is now quite different. We have had trainings and explanations on what it means to interpret the text at all. And it can be taught. Of course, the teacher must teach himself and pass on what he has learned to the children. The results have improved. Unfortunately, we note with all parties that the overall use of good, proper language and written language has, for various reasons, gone back. You were involved in higher education and doctoral thesis. There we have a fundamental theme that our higher education and research should be internationally competitive. Inevitably, a great deal of research has gone into English in large research groups, because international scientists cooperate largely in this language. In the case of doctoral thesis, student exchange and student exchange, the same story is that we pressure universities to be international. We consider it very important that we have many exchange students and also foreign lecturers. However, if their share is high, this also means that education takes place mostly in English. The new development plan for the Estonian language will soon come to this Riigikogu in 2018. During this development, one of the most important topics for discussion in 2017 has been that our higher education is becoming increasingly English-speaking. How do we ensure that a proper Estonian scientific language develops in all areas? This is a fundamental problem. On the one hand, we want to be international, i.e. we have students who come to Estonia and then go back again, and Estonian students move out of here and come back again. On the other hand, this means that quite a considerable part of our higher education is in English. So this is a dilemma about language development and terminology in different areas of language, which certainly cannot be just a worried child in one ministry or one university, but must be discussed more broadly in our society. Yes, you touched on a number of important issues in your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U201	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! It is clear that the Estonian language has given in to Estonia's life considerably. When you answered the questions, you spoke about how the Commission needs to work, make proposals and think. Is and how all of this related to the fact that the number of Estonian lessons has decreased and now the evaluators are in a hurry to evaluate what and how? After all, this is another concession on the account of the Estonian language for other hours and other areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U203	Thank you. Let's just say that the concern about the spelling of the Estonian language and the whole discussion are very legitimate. We have, and must, a very clear concern about language in society. Perhaps 'worry' is not a good word in Estonian, but let's say 'towards', constant attention that no concessions are made in the knowledge of the Estonian language. With regard to the examination committee, I will still try to be honest and to defend it, because there are very respected people, great mother tongue teachers and university lecturers. The aim of the committee was not to reduce the importance of the Estonian written or spelling skills. Their proposal was to better measure language skills. As you will remember, for years the Estonian language examination was done as an essay. When the application was part-skills exam, the aim behind this change was to assess not only the writing of the essay, self-expression skills, but also functional reading skills. At the same time, the exam has a spell test. Now the examination committee has proposed that there should certainly be a third part of the oral ability. The foreign language exam has long been awarded differently in the assessment of different skills. It is necessary that the young person who finishes is not only able to write a paper in his own language but also able to understand what he is reading. Not only does he know how to write correctly, he needs to be able to express himself correctly. That was the proposal of the panel of experts on the examination. Now, from time to time, there will be a discussion on which parts of the national language exam should be divided and how points should be taken into account. As far as I know, it is clear that, on this subject, which we are also debating here today and which we have been discussing over all these weeks, the Commission only really wanted the skills to be better taken into account in the evaluation. The signal that came out when the dots were moved was not a goal. That is why they immediately reacted and said that they would, of course, be prepared to reconsider this proposal for an examination.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U204	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U205	Thank you. The question of being able to spell and not being proficient is not just technical, as you said, and that is something the honourable people of Innove should know very well. This is a matter of principle and a change in the substance of the paradigm towards non-estonism of the Estonian language, which actually makes the revolution especially for Russian schools. Was this one possible incentive for the proposal, and would the change have been implemented without the disapproval of the large public?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U206	First of all, does this have anything to do with the fact that we have a considerable number of young Russian-speaking students taking the Estonian language exam? No, the best knowledge of this exam committee has been, from the beginning, that we are basically working on developing all the skills. That the Estonian language as a native language needs to be mastered at a very good level, properly, we can appreciate. And, of course, everyone who knows it equally to their mother tongue must be appreciated. We have plenty of young people who start their studies at a very early age and are therefore perfect with Estonian language skills and make the exam with a very good score. No, there was nothing like that behind this proposal. Have we made any changes that are somehow unknown to society or hidden? No, that would not be possible in the current Estonian society. We have native language teachers and subject specialists, and if experts are clearly in the way and eye, or such a change could be harmful in any way, as it seemed in the case of spelling, then in the present world, where everything is known through social media, the media, or the turnarounds, the reaction will be immediate. Such changes cannot be made in any way secretly, even in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U207	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U208	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! You've talked nicely about what students have to do. In order for them to understand how to read and write functionally, practice is needed. And it's probably gonna take a lot of hours. What do the curricula provide for Estonian lessons in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U209	Thank you. As the good questioner knows, curriculum development is a continuous process. Finding compromises between all wishes has been extremely difficult in all these years, when this curriculum has been developed here in the Republic of Estonia. Both objective and subjective viewpoints are justified and sometimes unsubstantiated opinions, all of which should be mandatory in the curriculum, there is a great deal. If we look at what has now been reduced and what has been added, it is likely that the foreign language skills of our young people have improved considerably. Several societal skills, such as social debate capacity or problem-solving capacity, have also become much better. However, we have reason to be quite critical, as some mother tongue and literary classes have been reduced by this. Do we have the capacity to restore this share by developing a new curriculum? I wouldn't dare say it's possible in this proportion. In our time, while the native language and literature were already in one block, we know how the native language went with it, and literature was put together with the volume of its hours so that two plus two did not give a total of four. In this sense, of course, we should now be extremely careful that there is no such pressure, for example, that we should, in turn, reduce our feelings. There are also interesting discussions that we saw on the side of writing technology. After all, we may agree in some ways that the way in which letters are interlinked is important and that there are separate notebooks of writing techniques. This debate is all right. But if we go to the essence of the problem, I have watched with interest, for example on social media, how quite often parents are discussing the fact that we are writing on a computer anyway. In a country like this, I've learned. And it was very interesting, because I have to be honest with you that in the United States I met quite a number of representatives from a large country who actually only wrote on a computer and were used to having a spell check on it. They printed perfectly in the blind system until they had to write a checkbook. If he had to sign the checkbook, it was illegible. Not that the signature should be legible, but they had to include their name, first and last names, and it was already quite illegible. So we must definitely not go too far with concessions. We have a lot of new things included in the curriculum that we can be proud of, because these are probably good things. But with regard to the fact that we are not giving in to any other changes, I would rather be attentive. With regard to the return, I would look forward to what is being offered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U210	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U211	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! Estonia has had a very large diaspora over the decades. He used to be relatively uniform in the days of World War II; now it is certainly very diverse, very multifaceted, I dare say. I also dare say that the Estonian language is being held everywhere. Will the Ministry of Education and Research review the financial and moral support of schools in relation to language learning? Today, it has gone through a large number of nationalist programs. Is it possible to initiate a more robust support measure here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U212	Thank you. Indeed, the situation has changed a lot in 26 years. If we now look at this situation in a very simplified way, I would refer here to the debate that took place in Swedish Estonian school a few weeks ago, where the teachers said very nicely that the young people whose parents or grandparents were born outside Estonia and whose children reach foreign schools were very few. There are also very few teachers whose parents or grandparents were born outside Estonia. Once upon a time, their main frame was just like this. But this diaspora is now, i.e. most children have been born in Estonia and moved out of here at some point in the last 15 years. These, say, expectations and wishes, also for the faculty, are quite different in the case of Estonian language. If the Estonian language was still taught primarily so that the language could be preserved, now the children will come and speak the Estonian language as their native language. After all, the Estonian teacher has a different language. Many want to come to Estonia for a comprehensive school or upper secondary school exam. Many people think that it is good for them to take a language exam in Estonia, even though they do not really know whether they want to come to this university or not to do it just in case. Expectations. What does that mean? This means that, first, there are a number of places where we have been sent a teacher. There is a constant expectation to the Ministry of Education and Research that we can keep up with teachers' salaries. In our time, we started with relatively modest sums of money, but now teachers from outside Estonia want to get paid at some livable level. The second group of pressure is that in these schools, as I said, teachers already have completely different expectations, including parents' expectations of them. Another point is that the diaspora itself has become obsolete, so in some places, for example, where the Estonian language and mind was kept very much by means of donations and subsidies, it is now believed that the Republic of Estonia should actually support it. Firstly, the support community there is already quite elderly and the second to third generation is no longer familiar with such a connection. Therefore, it is now up to us, as a country, to keep the Estonian language and mind in Canada, at some point in America, in Germany or elsewhere. So we have to look at this program in a completely different way. If so far there have been such symbolic benefits, perhaps a few thousand euros to say: you see, we are now sending you textbooks and you are there to deliver your own Sunday school, then now it will be the other way around. Our own interest should be to preserve some Estonian language among those who have moved out of here and who are likely to have multilingual families. In brief, in answering the question, yes, we need to rethink the logic and thinking of this whole programme. For example, some study opportunities are now online and much wider, so we have international opportunities to develop the state examination of Estonian. Over the last year, we have almost doubled the means to keep in touch. We now have over 200 children who study Estonian and different subjects in Estonian via the Internet. We must certainly extend such measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U213	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U214	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I'd go back a little bit. There was a question earlier about who proposed to the ministry and who came up with this idea. It turned out it wasn't a decision. I'd like to know more about the background, because I'm not a specialist in education, and I don't know exactly what Innove does every day. Perhaps you could give us or me in person background information, which is part of the Innove Commission, which you say is making such proposals. My second question is: if I address similar questions to the members of this committee, will they respond in the same way and confirm that they proposed it, and that the Ministry did not develop it, nor did the Ministry give guidelines for such a decision that we no longer value spelling in one of the Estonian language exams?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U215	Thank you, good questioner! I assure you that the Ministry of Education and Research will not dictate to the examination committee, except now that we have proposed a review of this issue. That's what they do on December 27th. The examination committee has 9 members and information on this is publicly available. I'd rather not read their names here. I'd be happy to give them to you. You can, of course, contact them. I can't tell you what they're confirming or not confirming. They're members of the exam board. These are the exam boards we have on all the exams. Once again, these are highly respected representatives of universities and native language teachers. How do such proposals come? Let's say it's rather routine to review the results of the previous exams and highlight bottlenecks. The English language test has always been constantly changing. Since the essay became a skill test, it has been updated and changed almost every year. Let's just say that, on the Commission's proposal, the examination arrangements have always been specified, but this time a very wrong signal just came out. That's why they're going over all this again.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U216	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U217	Thank you. Dear Minister, You have already expressed your concern about the Estonian language in response to two inquiries and said that the share of mother tongue and literature in the study programme has decreased and that this is a concern. That is a real concern. If we look at the press, including digital journalism and media as a whole, I think that at least three quarters of journalists should be sent back to school to learn Estonian. But what I want to ask is: since Estonian is also based on extracurricular learning, individual work, or it can be acquired through reading, to what extent has the compulsory reading material decreased, say, in the entire language learning programme? Do today's students read Tammsaare, Bornhöhe and other Estonian writers? How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U218	Thank you, Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U219	Thank you, good questioner! Compulsory literature is still mandatory. Literary teachers in many schools do report one or two works from one author. Just so that children can get a book from the library and share it with each other if there is no material at home. For example, it is said that Tammsaare and these works and children at that age can actually share the book with one another and find their own time to read one or the other. The curriculum sets out which works and which authors are mandatory. Rather, there has been criticism that this is a lot, but yes, we have a lot of compulsory literature. As a parent, I dare say, they do. Some are happier, some are sadder, but mandatory literature is fully in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U220	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U221	Jüri Jaanson, Liina Kersna, Ants Laaneots, Laine Randjärv, Valdo Randpere, Igor Gräzin, Yoko Alender, Urmas Kruuse, Kristen Michal, Meelis Mälberg, Aivar Sõerd and Urve Tiidus have submitted our final question today. On behalf of the heirs, Jüri Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U222	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are essentially going to discuss the issues of solving health problems and interfering with the service market more widely. It's a couple of important factors. Should the state intervene in society to solve any health problem and make a real contribution to benefits, to spread out to everyone, or should it rather be needs-based, so that, above all, people with economic or coping difficulties would still be helped? Secondly, does the State have to and can, by interfering with the health market, impose its own price caps in the form of a planned economy, or must it still take into account the market price level for service providers operating on the business market, which in turn would also ensure that patients have a high-quality service and wide access to it? We will discuss this today on the example of dental benefits. A year ago, the law amending the Health Insurance Act and the Social Tax Act was passed here in the Riigikogu, which introduced dental care benefits for people of working age insured. At the time, there was a huge dispute between the method of pricing the health insurance fund and the prices that developed on the dental market. This, in turn, has prevented dental care providers from entering into contracts with the health insurance fund for the use of benefits. Only 25% of service providers have joined the service throughout the country, and they are also mainly public-sector or small dental care providers. The rest have not yet considered or considered it possible to join under existing conditions. The latest news tells us that by now, some of those who have joined the Health Insurance Fund have abandoned it. When we adopted the bill, the Reform Party promised to keep an eye on developments. It's been a year now. Today we are expecting the answers from the Minister to the questions he has asked and, I hope very much, a healthier view of the responsible use of public money. I would also like some kind of vision to provide people with a better quality service based on needs, dental benefits and access to the service. Please, Mr. Minister, come and tell us!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U223	I'm the one who's giving the floor right now. Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U224	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable heir! It is a pity that the interest of the Reform Party in this subject is limited to your person, but it is certainly the decision of each group itself. Thank you to all the other members of the Riigikogu who are interested in this subject! A number of interesting views were expressed in the introduction and one of them concerned the price control of health services. For the knowledge of both the heirs and those who listen to us, most of the prices in Estonian health care have been controlled, i.e. limited to marginal prices. This is done by a list of health services, such a nicely thick document, where almost every service has its own marginal price. The list of healthcare services that will apply from 1 January next year will be held at the next or even this week's government meeting, so that it can be consulted. In general, price control has been the norm in health care and has been based on the most important principle: using social resources, state budget resources in the most efficient way to enable the largest possible part of Estonian society to provide high-quality healthcare and ensure the functioning of the solidarity health care system. Alas, the market does not offer us such a thing. The market will no doubt provide medical services for those who are willing to pay the price that is being charged to them, but the task of the state is also to provide health care, for example, for people whose incomes do not allow them to pay for it entirely. This has been the basic organisational principle of Estonian society, I would say. A solidarity-based healthcare system that is accessible to all, regardless of income, is our basic social value. I'm sure it's also a weather option. And I fully accept that the Reform Party may have the same mind as most American politicians who say that the state should not guarantee health care for the poor. Money isn't the sad news, you're not being treated, or you can borrow from the bank. If you can't, you can't. There's an ambulance, and then you'll see for yourself. Estonia has so far chosen another path, and I think it has been the right way. So instead of dismantling the solidarity sickness insurance system, you could think about how to make it better and more operational. That is what we have been doing actively under my leadership over the last two years. Now, last week, with the approval of the Riigikogu, we have also expanded the revenue base for health care in order to be able to offer a better service to more people. We have moved towards reducing people's own participation, for example in prescription medicines, and certainly a very important step towards narrowing the financial barriers to accessing dental care. Now, from the background. The background is, in fact, in the view of the system, the own contribution of health services, which in Estonia started to rise in recent years since 2011 and reached 23%. This trend is worrying, as the World Health Organisation says that the percentage of self-participation in health, which is higher than 25%, is considered critical, as the availability of healthcare for less insured groups is reduced from this point on and therefore health inequalities are increasing. It has also been the choice of the Reform Party that, in cases where money is less and there are certain problems with access to the service, patients should simply be increased by means of access fees or other charges. I remember that in 2016, when, as Minister of Health, I proposed to finance the health insurance system from the state budget, the then Prime Minister, Mr Rõivas, offered as a counter-proposal that, for example, a visit fee could be imposed to the family doctor or a review of the possibility of increasing the person's own participation. Really, it's a weather option. I did not support this direction, based also on international expertise in the context of health management. I think that we should rather move towards providing health care for all the people who need it. Dental care accounts for about a third of the self-participation burden in Estonia, which is about 25 to 30%. It's one of the biggest pieces of drugs. If we start an additional medical benefit for prescription medicines from 1 January in the case of medicines, the second major piece is dental care. Dental care is clearly the least available, especially among the poorest population, when we look at income by Decile or quintile. If, for example, we look at the highest income group, there is a relatively high level of spending on dental care, because the financial barrier does not exist for people with sufficient funds to pay for their own dental care. However, this is not the case in the poorer population. We know the financial barriers are high. As the State, for its part, did not have any compensation mechanism to offer, this is completely understandable in itself. Our aim in developing this benefit has not been to help the most wealthy people who are already able to pay for their own dental care. That is why we have chosen a system that will give the patient the maximum effect for the low budget money we are putting in this area, so that the maximum number of people can access this service. An alternative model, spoken of by dentists who would, of course, prefer a completely different system than the Reform Party, would be such that the money would simply go with the patient, would not be put on price control. However, it would have resulted in dental offices making good use of the money. They would, of course, simply have increased the cost of services, but how much the patient would have gotten out of it, we do not know. In that case, we would certainly have targeted a large part of this money also where there is no social problem, so these people will get their dental care. Our aim was to solve the problem of the financial barrier for a large part of Estonia, the majority of whom have lower incomes. With so little budget money, it could be done in such a way that we really started to control prices. Now I will answer your questions. The first question: 'Estonian Dental Association estimates that the main problem with adult dental care benefit is the price list established by the Health Insurance Fund, which does not cover real costs. [---] Please describe how the Health Insurance Fund has reached such limits and do you consider that they allow for a high-quality service? ' The Estonian Health Insurance Fund is based on a level playing field for all services and specialties, i.e. operating-based cost accounting based on a specific methodology is used. Price updates shall describe the resources, staff, accessories, apparatus, overheads, etc., their unit costs and their volume per service required for the provision of the service. Professional, service providers and health insurance are involved in the process. The role of the specialist is to give an overview of the services that need to be financed, the task of the service providers, or reference bodies, is to provide cost data, and the role of the health insurance fund is to support the working group methodologically. A key issue for the success of the process is a fair assessment of the provision of services, good cost data quality and cooperation. As the specifications are based on a professional assessment, a verification of the actual and optimal costs of two significant cost items, time of personnel and material costs will be carried out whether the actual and optimal costs of the treatment facilities are taken into account at service prices as a whole. Actual costs may not always be optimal in terms of health insurance. The cost analysis of dental care concluded that material costs were overestimated. Consequently, the cost of materials was reduced in most services. As professionalists and service providers have indicated that as a result price propositions became illogical compared to reality, the Board of the Health Insurance Fund proposed to the Board of the Health Insurance Fund to adjust the service prices in accordance with the proposal of the Estonian Association of Dentists. At the Council meeting held on 15 December, last Friday, the Health Insurance Fund supported the correction of dental costs for the following year. The prices of dental care services will rise by nearly 20% next year. As a final comment, this methodology, which we are talking about, is entirely normal and applies in exactly the same way to all aspects of the calculation of marginal prices in all disciplines. There's nothing special about it. It's just that it hasn't worked that way in dental care so far. The second question: 'As Chairman of the Board of the Health Insurance Fund, you seem to understand [Thank you! was adopted by J. O.] market prices and trade-offs in seeking agreements. But why does the Health Insurance Board hesitate to believe that the prices for dental care have also been designed by the market? Do you not see a logic error in the absence of a correlation between the established prices on the market at established prices over a long period of time? ' State regulation of health services is common practice. There is no market for classic goods and services in healthcare, as there are many information asymmetry and divergent interests in the system. Since every person does not have medical competence, a person is often unable to assess for himself what services he or she needs and what would be a reasonable price to buy a service. In such circumstances, the market is not itself price-regulating, but rather a person is a price-taker, as the need for the service is assessed by the treating physician, while the price of the service is set by the health care provider. Price regulation ensures optimal provision of services and motivates service providers to be more efficient and also saves taxpayers' money. In 2014, an overview of the principles of financing abroad was commissioned from the University of Tartu Applied Research Centre when establishing the dental care allowance. On the basis of the analysis, proposals were also made to regulate dental prices and to apply dental benefits to the adult population in Estonia. Thus, the best international experience and the choice made on this basis has been analysed in the implementation of the compensation. This is, of course, a choice that, as has been said, can be made for others because of the weather view. Question 3: "What is the standard cost of adult dental care in the Health Insurance Fund terminology and what is the marginal price? ' It is already very specific, I am very pleased that you are so informed about these issues. The service price is set on the list of health services provided by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, based on standard costs, as I said in the first point, and has developed according to a certain logic. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). In 2001, PricewaterhouseCoopers carried out an expert The analysis proposed, inter alia, to use the difference between the marginal price and the standard price for the modification of the list in order to avoid large price fluctuations. This means, in principle, that if, in the modernisation and review of a profession, prices for certain services are usually different, the advice of analysts to the health insurance fund has been that, if the changes between the old price and the new price are very large, the switch to the new price should take place gradually, i.e. it will be spread over different years. The overall recommendation has been that the marginal price should not change by more than 10% per year. So at the beginning, once it is updated and then it is gradually moving forward to ensure that the standard price and the marginal price are consistent. Logic has been that medical institutions do not have a high level of funding at the same time when too much is suddenly added or too much is taken away. Therefore, as a standard, dental care services had a difference in the marginal price since this specialty was reviewed as a whole. On 27 October, however, the Management Board of the Health Insurance Fund proposed to the Council to grant an exemption in dental care and orthodontics and to equalise the marginal price with the standard price, in so far as dental establishments generally only provide dental care, orthodontics and prosthetic services. They cannot therefore be expected to have an effect of scale, i.e. an end to the budget coming together between different disciplines. Therefore, prices were adjusted accordingly. As has been said, next year prices will increase overall by 20%, i.e. by 13% on 1 January and by a further 6% on 1 April, as a result of an increase in the wage component. Question four. Less than a third of dentists have signed contracts with the Health Insurance Fund. In many counties, the service is as good as unattainable. Does the current situation satisfy the Minister? First, dental care is now provided in every county, in a total of 171 dental offices. The service was launched six months ago and, of course, the situation could be better, in some counties for sure. The service is new for both dentists and patients, and every change definitely requires getting used to and time. Of course, the change in funding, i.e. the increase in prices next year, will encourage dental care providers to join this system. For our part, we have set such a reasonable situation when half to three quarters of the dental offices have joined. We believe that we will be there in the coming months. We were talking about giving up, i.e. giving up people or dental care providers. There's only been three of them in six months. The title in Postimees was proud, but there are three who have done so. Well, there are two more questions, but I'm running out of time, so maybe it's possible I'll answer them when I answer Jüri Jaanson's question. Of course, if the chair thinks it's appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U225	It is possible because members of the Riigikogu have questions for the minister. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U226	Thank you. Dear Minister, On the basis of the reply, I will immediately say that this is indeed a matter of the weather: whether it is a necessity or a necessity. However, the aim of the Reform Party is not to withdraw support from the vulnerable, but we consider prevention to be important. According to international research literature on dental care, 99% of oral health improvements are still the result of prevention, as people in vulnerable families are often not broken because they cannot go to a dentist but because they do not take care of their teeth. Once a year, offering them one savings seal does not improve their health. Now this is the question: why has the state not invested enough in prevention rather than this outright supply?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U227	Thank you very much. First, tell the same thing to those people who have broken teeth and who need this seal, that it does nothing to help them. I think if you've ever been in this situation yourself, you've discovered it's still helpful if your teeth are fixed. But prevention is undoubtedly very important, there is no doubt about it, so I am pleased that at least children's dental care was not taken away during the crisis. This is extremely important because it has ensured that the younger generation has been more systematic in the dentist. And, you know, another secret: the best prevention measure is given by the same dentists. Whoever else can give you good advice on oral health, that's exactly what dentists are. There's a special issue with children. Unfortunately, children's coverage of dental care services is also low, although they are free of charge. Percentages vary from county to county, 70 to 80, maybe. Perhaps a very large proportion of children still do not go to the dentist, even though it is free. This is certainly also a matter of parents' awareness. We have been discussing with the Dentists' Association, the Health Insurance Fund has been discussing, and I myself have been discussing how the state can be shouldered here in order to have more awareness. This is certainly extremely important. That's one. The second thing, when we look at this dental benefit, is, of course, in the first few years, given that we have such a long period in which the state, in essence, has not allowed less insured parts of the population to have dental care, we are dealing with the consequences of missed oral health, which is that the teeth that have in the mouth really need to be repaired. But, in fact, for those who are now in good shape, we see in this compensation, above all, that they go to preventive treatment once a year, look at their oral health, and also receive advice from the dentist on how to take better care of their dental health. Of course, there are some genetic predispositions or disease diagnoses that promote tooth decay. However, most of the decline in oral health is the environmental impact, which is what we do with our teeth. Now I will take this opportunity to answer the last two questions. Question five. You have expressed the opinion that you could increase dental benefits from EUR 30 to 50 for an adult. In a situation where less money is spent on compensation because dentists cannot provide a high-quality service on the basis of the Health Insurance Fund's price list, and therefore customers cannot use the compensation, would it not be more appropriate to adjust the limit prices so that the service becomes available? First of all, the fact that prices are adjusting, I already said. Secondly, I will take this opportunity and, however, I will also bring some statistics. As of the end of November, there were 62000 people who had received dental care with this benefit and at that time paid out EUR 2.7 million to the health insurance fund. About half of them are pensioners who have received State-enhanced compensation of up to EUR 85, and about half, or the other 30000, are the remaining adults. In addition, there has been a slight increase in the need for people, pregnant women and mothers of children under one year of age. The picture varies from one country to another, and we can see that the problem of coverage is quite high here. For example, Viljandi County is large, but the number of doctors joined is so small that the dental care allowance has been used only for EUR 12000. This is the only county centre that currently doesn't have a service provider. Very regrettable. I have given the Viljandi Hospital the task of providing dental care from the beginning of next year so that the people of Viljandi can use it. The Chairman of the Management Board of Viljandi Hospital has said that he will start providing this service from March next year, so that Viljandi people will also receive this service. In many other counties, the picture is actually pretty good. The total amount of compensation paid in Harju County is more than 700000 euros, the amount of compensation paid in Ida-Viru County is 450000 euros, the amount of compensation paid in Tartu County is more than half a million euros. So, as a whole, I would say that in the first few months, the start-up was definitely slower than we predicted. In some counties, we still have a problem, like I said. But we believe that Viljandi County Centre will be covered in the form of Viljandi Hospital and the coverage of service provision in the rest of the counties will increase due to the fact that next year, the marginal prices will become more attractive to dentists. Indeed, I have proposed to the Health Insurance Fund that the dental allowance be increased from EUR 30 to EUR 50. From the beginning, I said that this 30 is a'start-up' number because we had to fit into the budget of EUR 12 million per year and the calculations at that time did not allow for a higher level of compensation, because we did not have adequate or accurate forecasts and they could not have been used by many. Now, from the experience of the first year, we can say that the initial projections showed that the reality has been a little more modest. That's what I'm proposing. In turn, the Health Insurance Fund analysed these trends and said that, in fact, the benefit will increase significantly next year. For example, if we had 62000 by the end of November and there are about 70,000 people today, about 3.5 million will be paid out by the end of the year. If there have been 70,000 people here for five and a half months, there were nearly 20,000 users in November alone. This means that now, if we extend it a year from now, given the current trend, we will receive around 250,000 - 300,000 dental benefits from there next year. If more dental clinics come, probably more. As a result, the board of the Health Insurance Fund maintained its forecasts that an increase to EUR 50 should have come at the expense of other health care lines, but that money could have been diverted less elsewhere. Since the new chairman of the board of the Health Insurance Fund does not want to start the first full year with a budget where costs may be under-estimated, we agreed that the benefit would increase to EUR 40 next year and then, in the year after that, we could make the next increase to EUR 50. In addition, according to the law passed by the Riigikogu on 1 January, thank you to the Social Affairs Committee for this change this spring! We also add diagnoses of certain underlying diseases, which may contribute to the deterioration of dental health and, therefore, to the increased need for treatment. It was recalled that, in the context of the implementation of the employment capacity reform, the pensioners in the old scheme receive the higher benefit of 85 euros as pensioners. However, if, for example, a person with diabetes is assessed as able to work, or is not detected in the new scheme, he or she will receive a "lower limit'. People said, as an entirely adequate view, that my health would not improve if the methodology assessed that I was able to work. It was really unfair, and we have corrected that mistake. The law now says that the list of health services also defines the diagnosis of basic diseases where people have an increased need to get dental care, and then they get this elevated threshold. The list of health services agreed by the Council and immediately moving to the government has identified two diagnoses that affect dental health: the first type of diabetes and Sjogren's syndrome. For the next six months, we can discuss with the professionals whether there are any other diagnoses that should be part of this group. The sixth question is about prosthetics. From 1 January, the prosthetic benefit will also become inaccessible to pensioners who receive treatment in the same way. They're asking me if I don't think it's problematic. Indeed, according to the Act passed in the Riigikogu from 1 January, there will also be an in-kind allowance for dental prostheses instead of the current financial compensation. It is not the patient who settles with the prosthetic maker and later asks for money back from the health insurance fund, but the health insurance fund and the service provider deal with each other, and the person pays only the difference by which the prosthetic is more expensive than the allowance. The amount will be 260 euros in three years, starting from 1 January in kind, and will be provided by the Health Insurance Fund's contractual partners. But the important thing is that here, we have found a reasonable solution in cooperation with the Dentist Association. In particular, we do not impose separate price caps on the various components of dental prosthetic services, as is the case in dental care, but EUR 260 can be used as compensation in kind, regardless of the prices offered, as the content of dental prosthetic services is a little more complex than some others. As a result, we do not want to make it more precise at the moment on the basis of a separate price list. So I believe that prosthetic service providers have no reason not to enter into a health insurance contract. In the meantime, there was a fear that it would be linked to the obligation to provide dental care or other services to adults at the same time. It's not there. Those who offer dental prosthetic services can continue to offer it. And 260 euros becomes in kind, but that doesn't mean they have to calculate the different components by the limit of the Health Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U228	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U229	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, As a member of the Social Affairs Committee, I realized at the debate on the draft dental benefit that it is a compensation that is quite straightforward and aimed at all people in order to encourage them to visit a dentist more often. This will help us to deal with prevention, so that we have less problems with our teeth. Today, you have said very clearly that the main objective of this benefit is to support families in particular in the form of underinsured families, but in this case it would obviously be a need-based compensation. Now I have the question that if you treat this dental benefit as a need-based benefit, why didn't you immediately start up a system that would also be needs-based, not virtually accessible to everyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U230	Thank you very much. Because this logic is simply not applied in Estonia's solidarity health system. Social benefits are paid by local authorities; they do so on an ad hoc basis. Some support has also been made nationally on a need-based basis. It's not always wrong, I certainly don't think so. However, the solidarity of the health system goes hand in hand with the wealthier people holding up the system and providing health care for those who have less money, and healthy people holding up more people who are sicker, and taxpayers holding up those who do not yet pay the tax, that is, children or those who do not already pay the tax, i.e. the elderly. This also means that, that is to say, justice is that those who contribute more should not lose solidarity in healthcare. It has also been said here that I remember that the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Egorov, once asked why he would be granted a prescription credit, and he could pay it out of his salary himself. Logic has been that since Egorov pays more social tax on his higher salary each month, it is fair that he gets a need the same as some of his older relatives, not telling him that you have paid, very nice, but unfortunately, you don't get the service in this way. That is how solidarity has been built up. And we have also built on needs-based schemes, rather social needs-based schemes, where we take income into account. This is what we have taken into account at the local government level or through the social assistance system. Medically, we have looked at the necessity of having fewer financial barriers for people who have a greater need for services. For example, if someone spends a great deal on medicines, he or she will be able to receive more compensation. This, too, applies even to those who are a little more wealthy. It is not 'necessary', it is not 'poverty support', let's just say so. It simply does not fit into the general logic of our health care. In principle, it is also possible to discuss how, for example, the tax authorities can assess whether or not a person should pay for his or her medical visit on the basis of the declarations of the previous year. There are schemes like this elsewhere in the world, but in general it leads to an even greater unwillingness, in terms of social morality, to jointly and severally pay health insurance contributions. Because then a high-paid person would say that okay, I support my loved ones and maybe in society as a whole older people and children, but I still don't get the service myself. This isn't fair to the end. Now, as far as dental care benefits are concerned, I just wanted to say that, in fact, we knew from the beginning of the design that certain dental clinics would never come into this contract because they were oriented towards a more prosperous clientele. In Tallinn, they are often aimed at Finnish tourists and want to offer a higher price service. They also offer greater "softness" and offer certain amenity services to the medical service, which will certainly cost a lot. People are willing to pay for their well-being, and there is nothing wrong with it. So this scheme isn't against private medicine in any way. The question is not that we believe that Marek Ving's clinic or another "higher client," a clinic aimed at a customer with a higher salary, should bring down its prices. Absolutely not. We think they can work perfectly calmly, they have market niche and they should continue exactly the same. The question that we have solved is how to ensure that dental care services are available with an existing budget for those for whom it is currently not available.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U231	Dear Mr. Jaanson! There is one question in the case of inquiries. One year in opposition, there is little to learn how to ask questions. There's another case today. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Jüri Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U232	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your answers. Of course you can't be happy with them. Rather, the focus should still be on the reform of the system, because when we talk about the use of dental care benefits for people who are materially underprivileged, there should be guarantees of quality and, secondly, broad access. This is certainly not the case in this case. It is a pleasure to have the planned increase in areas, but I believe that much more people should be able to participate in dental care than the 62000 mentioned here. To conclude, as well as this approach, which does not only take into account health services, but also solidarity-based health insurance, and raise the question of why a proportionate increase in social tax is paid on wealthier people, but they would not receive dental care services, I think that this can also be viewed on the contrary. Is it proportional versus progressive income tax? I believe that wealthier people prefer a simpler income tax system, but at the same time they contribute more personally to their well-being and will gladly allow the resources collected by society to be directed to the benefit of the least economically capable. In total, I think there are actually a lot of problems. Even if the experience of the reference bodies or other countries is used and taken as an example. I wanted to ask you what particular example of the country our dental care system was designed for. We do not know this because there is no direct example. Maybe the most similar is the English system, but it is also critical. Not all of this can be answered here, but the fact is that the current dental benefit does not work in the way that the amendments made to the Health Insurance Act last year wanted. I would like the Minister to have the strength to think about whether it would not be reasonable to make the system round about what the Minister himself mentioned here, so that people who are underprivileged can have dental care, and to make the whole system needs-based. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U233	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U234	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honorable Minister! Respectable Helmen, Liina, Jüri, Külliki, Jüri, Andres, Krista and Ain! [[A comment from the floor.]] We need to talk about the Reform Party. President of the Jürgen Ligi Group, where are you now? Why aren't you in the hall? Your 11 political parties have asked questions. Why don't you respect them by being there for them? Why do you accept that only two of your groupmates are discussing this question at this late hour? Hanno Pevkur, you're still the head of the Reform Party. And even though you have left this battlefield, it is not polite to leave your soldiers, Liina and Jüri, on the battlefield. Kaja Kallas, somewhere in Brussels, will the Reform Party continue to do the same under your leadership?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U235	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U236	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen in the hall. exactly the same as Mr Ammas has just mentioned here! No one's left yet. Good minister! I do, however, want to talk about this questioning and the answers to it. For a little less than six months, people have had the opportunity to receive dental benefits. As stated above, as of 30 November, the contract had been concluded with 140 different bodies and 171 service providers. In addition, at this point, two other contracts had also been sent for signature. In fact, 62000 Estonian people and 2.7 million euros are still quite large, given that in the meantime there were summer holidays when dental clinics did not work. It is undoubtedly very regrettable that some counties, such as Viljandi, do not currently have this possibility of receiving dental care benefits. Really, there are three service providers in the county. But as you have heard, the situation will be resolved, and already in March, the people of Viljandi will have the opportunity to receive this compensation, and above all the service, not only the compensation, but just the service from Viljandi Hospital. In addition, in 2018, the dental benefit will rise from EUR 30 to 40. A higher compensation of EUR 85 will also be paid to some people with complex illnesses who are very needy but who are not pensioners. We are pleased that a common language has also been found with dentists in this sense, that the price list for dental care and orthodontics has been reviewed and that the health insurance fund will pay up to 20% more for the service to the dentists in the future. In addition, from 1 January, 260 euros of dental prosthetic benefits can be used by the health insurance company's contractual partners and the dentist will use his price list to provide the benefit. Consequently, as has been said, the Health Insurance Fund receives an overview of the Council. The Health Insurance Fund analyses with the Ministry, which is the actual cost of prosthetic prosthetics, how much it remains for people and what the price list is for doctors. There is probably a reason why the conflict became so acute and why there are fewer dentists signing contracts than expected, that if there are so-called public medicine and private doctors in healthcare, dentists are mostly private doctors. This has also led to a slightly monopolistic position where there is no competitor in the form of a public service. It is also true that dental care is a rapidly developing industry. All new equipment and materials will increase the price. Our dental facilities want to keep up with the times, but it's expensive. Perhaps the health insurance fund's price list does not really guarantee a more expensive and best service, but 171 contracted dentists certainly do not do their job badly or treat people's teeth badly. I am really glad that the Health Insurance Fund and dentists have started working together. Suitable solutions will be found, such as those that the patients really expect. I wish that Estonian advertising or image would not be a toothless smile. Thank you and good night.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U237	The members of the Riigikogu do not wish to negotiate any more, nor does the Minister. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-18_U238	No free mike. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 20:46 p.m.
