ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 9th working week Tuesday session of the VI plenary session. Date of delivery of the preliminary claim and enquiries. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U2	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Eight members of the Free Party will report an inquiry to the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. This inquiry concerns the protection of the fundamental rights of small shareholders. In fact, a lot of attention has been paid in the media to the unfair treatment of the former small shareholders of Eesti Telekom by the Swedish major corporation Telia and to the protection of the rights of small shareholders and minority shareholders in general. For example, after seven years of litigation, which ended with the victory of small shareholders, most small shareholders have still failed to obtain the fair compensation granted by Teliat's Estonian court. Telia also largely refuses to pay late payments and ignores the explicit order of the small shareholders to pay remuneration to their representatives. Telia does not provide any explanation of her behaviour and, despite repeated orders from the Estonian court, Telia's board members refuse to attend the hearings. On this basis, we ask the Minister of Justice, Reinsalu, whether our laws adequately protect small shareholders in Estonia. Altogether, there are four questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U3	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry and we will process it in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 80 MPs will attend the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, Details of the agenda: at the debate on today's sixth item, the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the United Kingdom' at first reading, will be presented by Hannes Hanso, Chairman of the National Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U4	Today's first item: Second reading of § 341 of the Road Supplements Act, initiated by the Economic Commission. I would like to ask Erki Savisaare, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you what has happened to this bill between the first reading and the second reading. The draft Act to amend § 341 of the Traffic Act was initiated by the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu on 7 June. The first reading of the bill took place in the Riigikogu's plenary session on 13 June and the first reading was closed. The main objective of the draft Act supplementing § 341 of the Traffic Act is to increase the efficiency of road transport by extending the possibility of special transport. The draft permits special carriages by means of vehicles with a mass greater than the general requirements for the carriage of all cargoes to be shared, where these are carried out on a vehicle of the EURO V or less polluting exhaust class, and the axles of the vehicle (except those with rotating wheels) are equipped with paired wheels. Special services should also be carried out after the adoption of the draft act in accordance with Regulation No 114 of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, as well as with the procedure for carrying out the special transport operation and issuing special permits and with the reimbursement of expenses incurred by the road owner, the special authorisation fee and the special fee. At its meeting on 6 July, the Government of the Republic decided, in accordance with the proposal of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, to support the objective of the draft. The Association of Car Companies turned to the Economic Commission with a proposal whose wording coincides with the wording of the proposal submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Aivar Koka, Erki Savisaare and Jaanus Marrandi. The written opinions and proposals submitted to the Commission can be consulted on the Riigikogu website. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications pointed out that the draft contains an amendment to the technical regulation to be notified to the European Commission pursuant to Directive (EU) 2015/1535 of the European Parliament and of the Council. In order to complete the notification procedure, the commission proposes to suspend the second reading of the draft. The Economic Commission discussed the draft law supplementing § 341 of the Road Traffic Act, including at its meeting on 13 November. During the meeting, the amendments submitted to the Commission for consideration were examined and procedural decisions were taken. Lauri Künnapuu, Head of Roads and Railways Department of MKM, participated in the meeting. The draft has been technically and linguistically structured in the verbatim and translation department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and the comments of the language editor have been entered in the text of the draft. Amendments. The members of the Riigikogu, Aivar Kokk, Erki Savisaar and Jaanus Marrand submitted a joint amendment by the deadline of 15 June. The Commission also received an amendment for consideration from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which drew the Commission's attention to the fact that the wording of the draft is to be supplemented insofar as it does not allow the special carriage of rough roundwood in the case of frozen road constructions in § 4 (1) of the Special Transport Regulation and § 4 (4) concerning the carriage of passenger cars by special purpose trailer of 20,75 metres in length. The wording proposed in the draft reduces the scope of the currently authorised transport operations. Paragraph 8 to be added to § 341 of the Traffic Act must allow the carriage of indivisible goods even if this is permitted by a special transport regulation. The proposed amendment makes it possible to continue the transport of currently authorised rough roundwood for frozen road construction and passenger cars with a specially designed trailer of 20,75 metres. In addition, the wording of paragraph 8 has been adjusted in a way that lists the special transport conditions as points. The wording of the proposal takes into account the content of the proposal submitted by the members of the Riigikogu. The amendments were decided by the Commission by vote and included in the list of amendments. Amendment 1 was tabled by the members of the Riigikogu and the decision of the committee is to take the proposal into account in substance. Amendment 2 was tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the decision is to take full account of it. The procedural decisions of the commission are as follows: send the draft to the Riigikogu for discussion by 21 November, propose that the second reading be suspended and set 10 working days, i.e. 5 December, at 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U6	There are also questions for the rapporteur. Priit Onions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U7	Thank you. What do you appreciate how long it takes for us to keep working on it? The saga and history of this bill are longer than you described. Let me get this straight: in the case of timber transport, we may have heavy vehicles on the roads, but if we are now going to allow a greater burden for other cargoes, then we must go to Europe to ask for permission to do so. Where does that logic come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U8	Thank you. It is true that roundwood can be transported today as a load heavier than the classic 40 tons. The reason why we now have to ask for authorisation from Europe, but we did not have to ask for it in the case of roundwood, is in the authorisation method. This authorisation for roundwood has been established by a ministerial regulation which does not need coordination from Europe, but when it is written into the law, it is necessary to inform Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U9	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U10	Good manager! Good penguin! I've been trying to read this bill, but I don't understand. I read here about the transport of rough roundwood in the case of frozen road constructions with heavy loads on the roads in winter. What's the point? The heavy trucks in the woods are breaking you down. Explain a little in the rural language, which means that it is necessary to start watching logs transported on frozen road constructions, therefore in winter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U11	Thank you. The initial wording that went into the bill was that the valid permits, which refer to these longer trailers by road and the transport of wood on the frozen road structure, were left out. Perhaps regulation would have been narrower than is currently allowed. This amendment, which now entered the bill, corrected this technical error. So everything that is currently allowed is allowed in the future. In addition, this authorisation extends to all other cargoes, such as milk, cement and other items.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U12	Meelis Mälberg.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U13	Thank you. Good waitress, can you tell me how many cars can already travel on our roads that meet these requirements? Or do they not yet exist and our carriers will only have to buy them after this law enters into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U14	Thank you. No exact number. These cars, which may carry up to 52 tonnes of round logs, should be in the order of a few hundred. However, there is no information on how many of them meet the requirements of EURO V or EURO VI, i.e. there is no environmental sustainability requirement for roundwood. However, for all other transport operations, the vehicles must still be acquired and also be certified by the vehicle register and all other relevant permits. So we are still talking about the new vehicles that will come to Estonian roads in the light of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U15	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! I didn't notice the corresponding procedures in Latvia, Lithuania or Finland. After all, freight transport is often supranational. Do cars have to be exchanged at the border, or is the content of the bill similar to the situation in Latvia, Lithuania and Finland?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U17	Well, the exact wordings are different. In Finland and Sweden, trucks of up to 60 tonnes are allowed on the roads, which is the border we are still under. There are also longer trucks allowed on the roads than we have in Estonia. In Latvia and Lithuania, vehicles of up to 52 tonnes are nationally authorised for roads. In the case of cross-border transport, it must be taken into account that only a few heavier trucks are allowed to cross the border, which is still the national regulation that we are introducing here. It is intended primarily for the carriage of goods by ships or trains with which the goods move forward. A truck which is more than 40 tonnes shall not cross the border unless it is a special agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U18	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U19	Good manager! Good waitress! I hear there are no environmental requirements for heavy trucks carrying logs. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U20	Thank you. A few years ago, loggers got such an agreement that they did not have to take these requirements into account. However, their cars must be equipped with GPS devices to monitor where they are currently driving.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U21	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U22	Honourable waitress! Good chairman of the sitting! A good colleague has already asked half the question, but this environmental distinction actually raises questions if you look at the perspective. Will all our road constructions be able to withstand these regulations in the future? Are the heavier trucks and the journey they're moving in taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U23	Thank you. This issue has also been analysed by the Technical University. Their calculations show that the trucks we are talking about in this bill are far more friendly on the road than those 40-ton trucks that we are currently in there. This friendliness is due in particular to the fact that all axles have double wheels and there are also more axles, i.e. a large mass is divided over a larger area that saves you. And if there are some bridges you can't cross, you can always mark them. At the same time, it must also be taken into account that we already have heavy goods vehicles with roundwood on the road and that all these bridges should be marked accordingly. If you go any further from here, you're allowed up to 72 grand for military cargo. So these trucks should be much safer on our roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U24	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, What could be the cost of this legislative amendment and who will bear it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U26	Thank you. The offer of this option does not entail any direct costs. The processing of these permits by the Road Administration requires a resource, but it is not so significant that additional funding is needed. I believe the Road Administration can manage the resources in a nice way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U27	No further questions for you. Thanks for the answers. I'll open negotiations if you want me to. That's not what you want. Two amendments to the draft 480 have been tabled and will be examined together. The first amendment has been tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Aivar Kokk, Erki Savisaar and Jaanus Marrand, the decision of the commission is to consider the substance. The second amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The 480 amendments to the draft have been examined. The proposal of the commission is to interrupt the second reading of the draft 480. As this is proposed by the lead committee, the second reading is suspended. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 12 noon on 5 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U28	Today's second item: Second reading of the draft law amending the law on permanent settlements of small islands, traffic law and underground law initiated by the Government of the Republic. And you will be presented immediately by Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U29	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we had a representative of the Small Islands Specialist Commission, who is not among us today. He'll be back here again. Kalle Laane. The Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has such work included in his salary. The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu has discussed the issues of the future procedure of the Small Islands Bill in its two sessions. One of them was on November 7th. a, where we invited Leo Filippovi, Chairman of the Estonian Association of Islands, in addition to the Office of the Ministry of Finance. An authorised representative of the Pakri island community, Estonian Island Assembly, Jana Stahl, came with him. The saarvadas were represented by Ingvar Saare, the Mayor of Kihnu rural municipality. During this committee meeting, we heard once again the proposals and understandings of the small islands' representatives on this draft law. These proposals have been made in a series of ways. I'll tell you later what happened to them. On 13 November we arrived at a situation where we discussed possible amendments to this draft law. A total of three of them were completed. First of all, the traffic law was under discussion here in one particular context, but its other notch was then in the same way in the air. This applies to traveling tourists in the smaller islands, but this does not necessarily require a tourist to be in a truck box under specific conditions. We have asked the Committee on Economic Affairs, which has also discussed this amendment, to deal with this issue in substance. The proposal reached the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as a result of this debate, but I will talk about this amendment to the Traffic Act a little later. The introduction of the Traffic Act into the draft law amending the Law on the Small Islands with permanent settlements and the Land Underground Act led to the need for the first amendment. The proposal is to amend the title and to formulate it as follows: 'The Law amending the Small Islands Act, the Traffic Act and the Land Underground Act'. So the word 'traffic law' came up in the title. Now, about the amendment to the Traffic Act. The Traffic Act is amended as follows: A truck, if it moves at speeds of up to 60 kilometres per hour, can carry passengers in the Defence Forces and the Defence League in the cargo room and in the box. However, in the case of small islands (except large islands within the meaning of the law on permanent settlements of small islands), passengers may be transported in a truck's cargo compartment or box at speeds of up to 40 kilometres per hour. Of course, the transporter must have provided for the safety of passengers and must not be carried in a trailer. Indeed, this change would only concern a small island with permanent settlement, i.e. it would not concern Saaremaa, Hiiumaa or Muhu County. Such an amendment was decided by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to draft the law and, as a commission of directors, reached the conclusion that it should be fully taken into account. The old issue should be resolved now. The third amendment concerns the distinction between the financing of small islands with permanent residence. This is linked to the situation where the situation of the population in the small island changes, whether sufficient people are required to be there, so that the country can finance the island further, or vice versa, it should be excluded from the list of the islands to be financed. It has been said here that this change will take effect not this year, but next year. And there is also the difference in implementation, which says: '2018. In addition to the small islands fulfilling the conditions laid down in § 21 of this Act, all small islands referred to in subsection 2 (3) of this Act, which were in force until 1 January 2018, are included in the list of smaller islands to be approved in 2005. From 2019 onwards, only small islands fulfilling the conditions laid down in § 21 of this Act shall be included in the list. ' This amendment, too, has been proposed by the lead committee to take full account of it. Now from the content of this debate, which we had with representatives of the smaller islands and which, perhaps through different people, has also reached members of the Riigikogu. There are three issues that can be mentioned in detail. One set of topics concerned the criteria for the islands to be included in this list, i.e. how these criteria should be addressed. As you know, the legislator suggested at first reading that there should be at least five people there. The debate has been about how many households they should live at. The Commission's approach here has been very simple: every person who comes to the smaller islands has a value in themselves and, in the context of the transfer of funding, should not necessarily try to combine any kind of community. The assumption is that there are people. One small marginal remark also: if the local government, if it has such a small island, gets more money from the state budget, it does not mean that if there are fewer than five people there, for example four, there are no services on this island. The local government has a budget and in this case it must guarantee these services. Since five people, there is simply the possibility of additional funding. One of the main concerns for the collection of islands has also been whether the Government of the Republic is such a competent body at all that it can decide on such matters, i.e. to refer to the small island as the recipient of funds by regulation, is this not really a matter that should be solely a matter of law and competence of the Riigikogu. The members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs could certainly not agree with this line of reasoning. Among us were people who had come into contact with the executive authorities who did so. And we thought that the flexible and sensible way is still that once the population criteria are met, the government will make an operational change and provide appropriate funding for the municipality where these small islands are. Another set of questions that I would like to highlight and for which you have probably received the most input is whether the island community should be mandatory or not. We have had the view since the first reading of the draft that there is no such obligation. The authors of the counter-opinions bring the island of Vormsi, for example, here. I tried to enter the life of Rakveres Vormsi Island last night, as much as it was possible to do through the Internet. In 2010 or 2011, the general assembly of this island has been able to prevent the development of a wind farm. Vormsi is such a special island where the council generally doesn't have to trust. There are experts in Läänemaa, they know. I looked at the election results. At least the last time there were two lists: one large electoral alliance, which occupied all nine seats, and at least two candidates on the Central Party list. I think that, and that was just as overwhelming in our committee, that in the local government, the elected council is still the place through which local life decisions are made. This does not preclude the fact that there are general bodies in island municipalities, but it should not be a prescriptive duty of the legislator. If there is a community, they don't make it work by law, they act by themselves. And if I take some kind of example from the continent, which may be the town of Rakvere, what should we do if the council makes decisions that maybe some of Rakvere's people don't like? Some general assembly in the city of Rakvere should then try to reverse this issue. So you either have to run for council or b) choose people who stand up for their island. However, the General Assembly should also be set up if the community deems it right. But we here on Toompea shouldn't write it down. As far as the Vormsi Council is concerned, its meetings are also broadcast online, at least according to the website. So even the landowner living in Sweden, if he has language skills, should not be difficult to review what is going on on the council. As far as planning processes are concerned, the legislator has provided for opportunities in other laws concerning disclosure and also making proposals. I think I've broadly summed up this problem. For this very small island theme, Kaja Kärner is also making a radio show. I don't know when it's on, but it's going to be recorded today. So those interested can listen to it. I'm also the one who's been invited to the debate. Now the decisions taken by the Commission after the drafting of the amendments. The proposal was to put this item on today's agenda and to discuss it in plenary. Here we are. Our proposal is also to conclude the second reading of the draft (there were 9 members for it, 1 abstention). When the second reading is completed, our proposal is to send the draft to the third reading by 6 December and also to hold a final vote (there were 9 people in favour, with one abstention). That's the story. I'll answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U30	Before the first question from the floor, I would like to ask myself a point of clarification. Mr Rapporteur, you mentioned, among other things, the third amendment when you spoke about the amendments. This material, which is on our tables, concerns two amendments. Am I on the right track to understand that, since both amendments are essentially two-part amendments, the second part of the second amendment was the so-called third amendment in your report?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U31	You get it right.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U32	Thank you! Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! My question is motivated by an explanatory statement. Do the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Assembly of Estonian Islands live on parallel worlds? I found in the explanatory memorandum that the Estonian Island Assembly has made nine proposals in total, but none of them have been taken into account. Or is it the incomprehension of the Estonian Islands Collection?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U34	Thanks! I believe that the main conflict is due to what I tried to describe above all as a population or community criterion. In an inexplicable way to me, the Assembly of the Islands has, on the one hand, wished to regulate the various issues in a well- detailed way in the law and, on the other hand, to enter into different laws the obligations or places of consideration of the State concerning the smaller islands. This is simply the result of the debate that we did not have the support of these proposals in the Commission. Everyone says that the Riigikogu should not be a rubber stamp. So if the Riigikogu, as the legislator, discusses matters in substance and considers that the proposals should not become a law, it will act perfectly adequately within the limits of its competence. At other times, perceptions can come together. The amendment to the Traffic Act is an example of a common understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U35	Arthur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U36	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Marko! The General Assembly is now being removed from the law; it is as if the local government has to make decisions. For example, Naissaar, a small island in Viimsi municipality. If Naissaar's decisions are made in Viimsi, where maybe no island dwellers belong to the council, then if you withdraw the general assembly from the law, it will take away any defence mechanism from the island's inhabitants. Isn't there some kind of logic error here? There should still be some kind of protection for the people of the islands.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U37	This flexibility clause concerns island municipalities. If we take Naissaar as an example, this is not a local government. This is a small island located on the territory of a single rural municipality, and I want the strength to continue to make general assemblies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U38	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U39	Good manager! Good waitress! I have repeatedly been in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs during these discussions and, until we are tired, I have asked why the Estonian Island Council is being run over by a roller. Mark Soosaar is watching you now. Perhaps you will turn to him and tell him why all the opinions of the islands have not been taken into account? Is this a senseless company that's about to celebrate its 25th anniversary? And it's always been that way. Why is it that Toompea decides, but a collection of small islands is some senseless organization that puts forward nine proposals? By the way, the explanatory memorandum says 'line proposals'. In the case of Kihnu, there are five proposals. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U40	Thanks! Arthur Talvik got a little confused, so I'll try to improve. People have perhaps too generalised what concerns the creation of flexibility in island municipalities. There are three of them: Vormsi, Kihnu and Ruhnu. In other islands, the General Assembly is still a statutory institution. The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu certainly does not think, and I assume that the Riigikogu's plenary session is also a meaningless organisation. Not even when he's 25 years old. I know Mark Soosaart, and I have also worked with him at the Riigikogu Committee. One of Mark's own 'work lines' is certainly that the small islands are regulated in very detailed terms in different laws. I think that the legislator, who looks at the country as a whole and who has reached the 17th century, could continue to support the notion that not everything needs to be detailed by Toompea. When communities operate on islands, they operate without law enforcement. It's like with your neighbors: when you're a good neighbor, things work out for you, when you're in a fight with your neighbor, the law doesn't help. Sometimes the police help.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U41	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U42	Thank you, very honourable President of the sitting. Good waitress! For the people of my day, there is no surprise or news in the truckbox, it was quite nice to drive, and so there was a lot of driving. Was it also discussed in this amendment to the Traffic Act that, if there are some reliefs in the law, how personal protection works and whether it is possible to lodge a complaint after an accident has occurred that we do not want? The question is not motivated by the will to say that this change must not be made. But has it been analysed in such a way that if such a case occurs in real life, how can a solution be found?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U43	Thanks for the question! As far as this particular amendment to the Road Traffic Act is concerned, it has been discussed in the Transport Committee of the Government of the Republic, on the one hand, and in the Economic Committee, on the other. We have taken over the outcome of this debate. Now, if you come to your particular question, if anything happens, it is the carrier's responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U44	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question concerns the list of small islands, i.e. Article 1 (3). The island is like an island where there are five permanent residents, if the number of inhabitants falls below it, then it will be excluded from the small islands list at some point. I don't think the island's going anywhere, whether it's five or four. Is this a monthly check for five people to exist here not too much? Do you really have to do it that tight? It doesn't take the island away if there are fewer people there at some point. This check could be done a little less frequently.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U46	Thanks! If we turn to the movie classic, the Men don't cry, sometimes the island may not even be an island, but it's more like a peninsula. In this case, it is not an island as a geographical concept, but a criterion from which the State will provide additional aid to the local authority. And if there are fewer people there, then the local government still has to provide services. Now for that control. After all, this is not a situation in which the officials of the Ministry of Finance are going to attend the small islands for a census at a frequency of once a month. In the summer, it'd be a pretty cool assignment, you could even be the head of this department. But this is a registry-based survey: it is based on the fact that, for at least six months of the year, this number of people on the island must be guaranteed on a registry basis. There's gotta be that criterion somewhere. If you come back to Vormsi again, they even had an election union in the winter Vormsi. It brought together people who are ready to survive winter on an island like Vormsi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U47	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U48	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good colleague in the Riigikogu, chairman of the committee! I'm sure the question will tie in with this bill, but it's going to get a little wider. According to the administrative division of Estonia, the municipality of Saaremaa, the large small island of Muhu and the small island of Ruhnu are located next to the municipality of Saaremaa. Is it justified, in a number of presentations, speeches and, in fact, in the documents that have come to this hall, that the Saaremaa municipality is like the legal successor of Saare County in all its aspects? After all, there is a large small island of Muhu and a large parish of Saaremaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U49	The draft law on the permanent settlement of the smaller islands does not entail any further amendment in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U50	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U51	Good manager! Good waitress! I still still don't understand when ballerinas turn to changing ballet law, but we here at Toompeal say that you ballerinas do what we say. I am referring to the assembly of islands, which have constantly said that this law should not be done in this way and should also take their proposals into account. Although it has been taken into account that Kihnu and the other islands do not think that they will lose money, the entire nine proposals of the islands have not been taken into account at all. Do you still think it's normal? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U52	Thanks! Certainly, the Riigikogu should not be guided in its work by the principle that we give them anything, then they will be silent because they have received something. A clear debate, consideration of some or other arguments should be taken. I don't know if, after I say it, the islanders who are in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will get any votes at all. But as Rakvere and an "island-free person," I say that I may not understand things, but there was a debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on these amendments, which resulted in the overwhelming opinion of the members of our committee. This is due to the understanding of nine members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U53	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U54	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, We know that the world will agglomerate and by 2050 70% of the world's inhabitants will live in cities. This also leads to the opposite process: people are looking for peaceful and lonely places, which means that the number of inhabitants of the islands is likely to increase in Estonia. This is already showing a growing trend and is growing further. I ask you that the same Assembly of Estonian Islands made a series of proposals that did not fit right now. What left you with the most of these proposals? On what proposals could you say that they will probably come back to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs after a while?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U55	Thanks! I don't know how to bring any of them out. To be honest, I've never been disturbed by the pagunas, and I've never guessed it's my personal opinion, it's not some kind of committee talk, so that everything in my life should be written down. If I want to do something in the community, I will. That's one. Secondly, if there were to be an island and an island where people wanted to live, then it should also be a move with the dreams of the fans of the small islands with permanent settlement. Each person should not have to come by five, who is ready to settle down somewhere on the island, should be a welcome and positive phenomenon. And if we take even the aspect of funding, the additional support from the small islands will now come from a compensatory fund of EUR 70 million. When these islands come up, they will not share the same fixed order of magnitude, half a million euros, but everyone, including the people of Rakvere, will bet a piece of chips so that these small islands can receive their support and perhaps an island watcher. I'm not sorry about that. And even the small islands shouldn't be jealous of each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U56	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable waitress! Part of my question comes from my colleague Mr Herkel's question. When we talk about bureaucracy, perhaps the approach would be that if one small island has behaved exemplaryly and it has been established that there has not been a reduction in population in six months, then it should not be checked for the next year or two. It is being pursued in rural policy in relation to organic production. But would you explain the logic that I didn't actually understand to the very end? It seems to me that when we talk about five people as a criterion, it does not matter whether they are five, three or one for certain services and things. This means that when we talk about some kind of financial support system and keeping it up, this criterion of five people seems somewhat inappropriate. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U58	Thanks for the question! We can take any law we want to impose on a daily basis such criteria, we create some sort of agreed boundaries. Sometimes it is EUR 10,000, sometimes it is five people, sometimes it is 30 kilometers or two hours or half hours of schooling. And unfortunately, in all these cases, we cannot say that this is some very deep scientific result. This criterion is based on five. This has been found to be the place where the state comes to the aid of the local government. We have just undergone a local government reform. Even in a situation where there are four people on the island, they need to get there and out of there. They must have an emergency phone so they can call for help, etc. As our legislator, we have created one additional option. We could have pulled it over to ten or four in principle, that doesn't change things. The question is, in a very simple way, whether or not there are people on the island.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U59	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I will open negotiations on the draft provisions. That's not what you want. Two amendments to draft 493 have been tabled and we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take full account. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take full account. The amendments to the draft 493 have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 493. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U60	Third item: First reading of draft Land Improvement Act 524 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'll call the minister of rural affairs, Tarmo Tamme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U61	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have before you draft law 524 on land improvement, which is here at first reading. The draft Land Improvement Act was developed in 2012 at the Ministry of Agriculture and was based on the intention to amend the Land Improvement Act. Due to the large number of necessary changes, it was decided to complete the draft Land Improvement Act in its entirety during the drafting process. This draft is not only a new version of the current law, but a substantive improvement. Land improvement increases the crop value of land for profit and protects the environment. This also leads to the basic requirements for the land improvement system. Its regulatory network shall ensure a suitable soil water regime for cultivation and shall provide for a drainage of excess water from the regulatory network. At the same time, the system must minimise the risk of spreading diffuse loads and provide the best possible self-cleaning capability. So today, land improvement seeks to strike a balance between the effects of economic activity in land-revenue land and environmental objectives. In view of Estonia's climate and soil, land improvement is also indispensable today. However, its content, as I pointed out above, has changed since before. Today, the fact that without functioning land improvement systems, 50% of Estonia's land-use land could not be used for its intended purpose due to excessive humidity. Land improvement consists of two parts in general: the construction and reconstruction of new systems and the maintenance of existing systems. On this basis, the design of the draft has also been developed. The chapter on the rules for the construction of systems was drawn up in the light of the rules of the Construction Code, in so far as the specific nature of the land improvement sector allows it. The authorisation procedure for the construction of systems shall preferably be carried out electronically through the land improvement system register. Other activities related to land improvement systems will also be coordinated with the Office through the same register. The regulation proposed by the draft proposal is expected to improve the qualifications of responsible professionals working for companies active in the field of land improvement and to increase their responsibility for professional activities. For example, the specialist responsible must either carry out the relevant professional work or check it. It must also confirm its legal link with the undertaking. In most areas of land improvement, there is an obligation for responsible professionals to undertake further training. Since the volume of construction of new land improvement systems is marginal today, the greater the importance it attaches to the maintenance of land improvement systems. The maintenance of existing systems and rights and obligations related to systems therefore constitute a major part of the scope of the draft. In order, inter alia, to ensure the functioning of land improvement systems, it provides for prohibited activities. Protection zones have been established for the upstream to allow land improvement. Since land improvement systems are located on dozens and even hundreds of immovable property, the rational form of land improvement is a joint operation. Although the principles governing the establishment and operation of a land improvement cooperative are broadly similar to those in the current law, there are still relatively many changes to this chapter. I'll name the most important ones. If under the law in force, the land improvement cooperative is a non-profit association, it is converted into a special and private legal entity. The need to change the project was due to the contradiction of the principle of compulsory membership of land improvement cooperatives with the sentence of § 48 (1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, which provides for the right of everyone to be brought together in non-profit organisations and associations. This principle also protects a person's right not to belong to an association, i.e. to withdraw freely. I recall that the same principle laid down the legal status of the building management company in the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2018. According to the draft law, the legal capacity of the land improvement cooperative will arise by entering it in the register of land improvement cooperatives, which is designed as part of the register of non-profit organisations and foundations. The draft provides for a more prudent regulation of the establishment of a land improvement cooperative. Among other things, a preparatory meeting is planned for the establishment of the cooperative, where the objectives and the principle of operation of the cooperative are explained to the owners of the land improvement system, the draft statutes and the possibilities for the allocation of votes at the general meeting are presented. It shall also specify the deadline for the submission of proposals for amendments to the Statutes and the date of the establishment meeting. The draft has also introduced a longer-term and more detailed action plan for the cooperative and clearly delineates the responsibilities and responsibilities of the board and its members. As the establishment of a land improvement cooperative is voluntary, the cooperative will be given the opportunity to cease its activities. The implementing provisions of the draft act govern, inter alia, the authorisation of a system which has not yet been included in the register of land improvement systems. As the section of the register of land improvement cooperatives enters into force half a year later than the rest of the law, the draft legislation also provides for the legal capacity of existing cooperatives during the transitional period and for the registration of existing cooperatives. Thank you and I wish you the strength to discuss the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U62	It starts immediately with the question of Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U63	Thank you, good speaker. Good minister! How much will the creation of new land improvement cooperatives help us closer to the goal of zero bureaucracy? And what about those landowners whose land has already been adequately repaired and who do not need cooperative activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U64	Thank you. The bureaucracy is not going to increase much with this bill. But in order for an area or territory to be fully covered, landowners who confirm that they are well must join the cooperative. In my opinion, there is no rational territorial part of the whole. After all, they all win when the whole area is organized and the land improvement systems are running and no harm is caused to anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U65	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, how do you assess the activities of the land improvement companies so far? And can we by this law eliminate any obstacles to the operation of land improvement cooperatives? On the one hand, the rules will be clarified, but will and how will this bill contribute to the activities of land improvement cooperatives?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U67	Thank you for your question. According to the draft law, the land improvement cooperative will become a private legal entity from a non-profit association. The fact that the form changes is a fundamental feature of this law, which sets out their activities as such in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U68	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U69	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Minister, do you and how do you reflect damage in the law? South Estonia, for example, is currently in total trouble with the beavers, who will undo all the work they have done. Only a farmer has nothing to do with a shovel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U70	Thank you. The damage to the bill is not dealt with, but it is a big problem. When these cooperatives are formed, they also need to find a solution together so that upstream and downstream flows, these systems can work. I can tell from my personal experience that I have demolished a number of beaver dams, because the excess water that arose damaged my property, that this is our everyday activities. If we want to be friends with nature, we try to live with them somehow. The beaver is an important part of our nature. I can tell you, he's also a brave animal in Põlva County. So you have to be friendly with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U71	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I am interested in involving stakeholders and coordinating the draft. I looked in the explanatory memorandum that the draft had been developed in cooperation with the representatives of the Land Healers' Society, but could not find a table of coordination within the explanatory memorandum. Should the draft be simply praised, because no amendments were tabled? How did the involvement of stakeholders and the coordination of the draft act take place or were they not involved and the draft was not coordinated? Or was everything really that good?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U73	Thank you. They must have been involved and coordinated with them. As you have heard, this bill began to be drawn up in 2012, when we still had the Ministry of Agriculture. So it's been hard work for five years. I guess all the differences have been settled, i.e. there are no more differences left today. So I think it's a very good bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U74	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Here's the question. It has been said here that land improvement will ensure a situation where Estonia's land-use land, which would otherwise be too wet, can still be used in agriculture, and that 50% is the land that could not be used without land-use improvement. If this bill becomes a law, how much really is the land that, due to excessive humidity, still remains untapped to produce a crop? It's called 50%, but is it going to be 10% or 20%?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U75	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U76	Thank you. Good question. These land improvement systems are, in fact, largely constructed during Soviet times, and our task is to keep them in order and make sure they continue to work. Unfortunately, we do not have much money to build up new systems, mostly for the maintenance and reconstruction of systems. But surely we would need to dry out much more land and build land improvement systems, also considering how the climate has changed, especially this autumn. Grain growers and everyone else saw the importance of the upstream flows and their cleaning. I'm sure there should be more of these systems, but the current possibilities will set the limit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U77	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U78	Thank you. In the light of this law, according to which the form must become better in order to make things work better in real life, does the state also plan, in the perspective, to provide additional resources to support joint action not only on paper but also on the ground?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U79	Thank you. We are still asking for these additional funds, and it is very good to have them in the state budget together with Parliament. At present, there is support through MAK and a size of EUR 1.8 million per year. Surely these instruments are not sufficient, as I have already said to your colleague Urve Tiidu. These tools are to maintain the systems we have built up. And we know what period they've been built up. No new systems have been built these days. But they are certainly necessary, well-placed for agriculture, increasing yield, crop productivity of fields, etc. We are also trying to increase these instruments gradually, and perhaps when the MAK plans are reviewed, more resources will be found in this area. It's our joint job.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U80	Krista Aru, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, § 17 of the draft law relates to research on land improvement. Does the conduct of such research require a specific professional certificate, qualification from the person concerned? It has been further mentioned that the research requirements for land improvement will be set by the Minister of Industry by a specific regulation, but will there also be a preliminary draft of this regulation? Are these requirements changing very fundamentally compared to the current ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U82	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. There is an obligation for new players to continue training, and I do not think it will be burdensome. The draft envisages a further training obligation for responsible professionals working for companies in four land improvement areas: land improvement research, as you said, land improvement system design, land improvement expertise and owner supervision. At the same time, we are also trying to train these specialists. In the meantime, dealing with it was slow and we now want to bring it back to life. This is actually a very topical issue, and further training is also foreseen for research. We expect these people to be in training.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U83	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U84	Good manager! Good waitress! It worked like it did in Pear and Andres, but most of the land improvement objects have been made during Soviet times. For now, this thing has stopped. My question, however, is specific. There is no table behind the explanatory memorandum, as many drafts do: proposals from the various authorities concerned and whether or not they have been taken into account. The explanatory memorandum states that the draft has been discussed with the Agricultural Office, the University of the Land, etc. Are all their major proposals in here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U85	Thank you. It is a good bill in this sense that all the proposals are in here. As I said in reply to your colleague, it has been discussed for five years. In 2012, this bill began to be discussed when we still had the Ministry of Agriculture, and in five years it has been possible to scrape all the inconsistencies out of it. Actually, it's a bill that everyone should like.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U86	Thank you, Minister. Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Rural Commission, will make a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U87	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this topic on 23 October. Tarmo Tamm, Minister of Rural Affairs, Marko Gorban, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and Olev Krist, Chief Specialist of the Rural Development Department for Land Improvement and Land Use. Olev Krist gave an overview of the draft Land Improvement Act. He noted that the draft law relates to the construction code governing the construction sector. The main change concerns the regulation of land improvement and land improvement cooperatives, according to which land improvement cooperatives are no longer non-profit organisations but private legal entities. As of 2016, the number of land improvement cooperatives was around 200. The Commission asked a number of questions to which most of the answers were given by Olev Krist. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be put on the agenda of the 524 plenary session by 21 November, to appoint a speaker before you as rapporteur, to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped and to set ten working days for the draft amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U88	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. I'm opening negotiations for everyone. That's not what you want either. The commission's proposal, as you have heard, is to complete the first reading of draft 524. First reading is complete. Indeed, I will set 10 working days by which the 524 amendments will be tabled, i.e. 5 December at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U89	Today's fourth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Public Transport Act and the Local Government Organisation Act, initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group. I call Urve Tiidus, a member of the Riigikogu, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On 19 September, the Reform Party Group initiated a draft amendment to the Public Transport Act and the Local Government Organisation Act. What does it want to change? The amendment of the two laws provides for the possibility for the local authorities of the large islands to organise themselves ferry and air traffic. The Grand Isles refer to Saaremaa, Muhumaa and Hiiumaa. Why is it necessary to change the laws? The draft has been driven by an objective situation, following administrative reform, where municipalities are larger and more capable. This was, by the way, one of the main objectives of the administrative reform. A significant amount of information and knowledge about the needs, wishes and ambitions of the population, including the organisation of transport connections, is concentrated in the hands of a new, more capable municipality. Of course, information is constantly updated and as such a good starting point for ensuring an ever better quality of connections and for responding rapidly to changing demand. Of course, this bill does not foresee the discovery of America, and the islanders will not build Santa Maria. However, the initiators are convinced that the draft agreement fits perfectly with the European Charter for Local Government. One important principle of the Charter is the principle of subsidiarity or subsidiarity. This means that political decisions should be taken at the lowest possible administrative and political level, i.e. as close as possible to citizens. However, nothing is closer to citizens than a local government. The draft aims to give local authorities more rights and financial resources so that the transport of their people, as well as visitors, between the big islands and the continent can be organised even better than so far. If anyone now hastily concludes that the islanders want more money, that is not the case. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, the aim is to organise ferry and air traffic in accordance with the needs and expectations of the population, whether it be the density of the ferry timetables, taking account of the peak travelling hours and the crowded events, or so on. All of this is reflected as an amendment to the Public Transport Act. I would like to make a special mention of this amendment, which makes it possible to manage ferry and air traffic in cooperation with other municipalities, local governments' associations and the state, the Road Administration and Ministry. The emphasis is on 'cooperation'. The principle that ferry traffic is financed from the state budget is not recommended to be changed. However, once again it is said that the Local Government Organisation Act, which the local authorities know under the name of KOKS, will receive an addition according to which the ferry and air traffic management of the large islands will be the responsibility of the local government. It's that simple to sum up what's in the bill. The aim is to provide faster and municipality-led decision-making and a better quality service. They don't ask for extra money. As stated in the draft, there is no legislative amendment to the increase in revenue and expenditure of the state budget. There is a restructuring of the division of labour between the Road Administration and the local government. The opinion of our draft is supported by an executive edition of the Constitution, which says: 'The state must, in principle, carry out state tasks. In certain cases, however, it is appropriate to delegate to the local government for the purpose of carrying out its tasks in the public interest, allowing them to be carried out throughout the territory of the country at a relatively low cost by well informed and easily accessible municipal and city officials. It is possible to delegate both the task area and the part task. ' The idea of this draft can also be supported from the point of view expressed by the local government expert Märt Molli. This does not specifically apply to this draft, but Moll has previously said that having competences and responsibilities should not only be an obligation, but also a right. Nothing too newsworthy should be included in this bill for the government coalition, because from spring I recall the opinion of Mikhail Korb, Minister of Public Administration, that local authorities could also be handed over to current state secondary schools in the future. Regardless of what reaction this bill will give us, it makes sense to consider this point. In connection with the draft, the council of Saaremaa has also made a statement on 3 November, the last paragraph of which says: 'Therefore, we expect the Riigikogu to take into account the expectations and proposals of Saaremaa people in the process of organising transport connections between the mainland and Saaremaa in law making, creating legal opportunities for them to be involved in the process at an early stage. 'That's what I'm done with. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U91	Küllik's Hatter asks the first question to the waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U92	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Please, could you open up a little bit of the nature of this current problem. I understand that your proposal is due to the fact that ferry and air traffic management does not meet the needs of local people and there are problems with service providers. Please describe the conclusion as to why the cooperation with the current service provider has not been carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U93	Thanks to the questioner! Let's just say that starting to dissect this problem here might not be the right time or place right now. Over time, the service gets better and people learn, including current organizers, occasionally turn around and ask how better can be done, etc. In itself, this draft is still driven by the outcome of the administrative reform. Saaremaa is now one municipality, thus more capable and likely to be more resultant than all of these earlier more than ten municipalities. There is a desire to work in the interests of the island and the parish, both for the people of the rural municipality and for the people who visit the island. This is the main starting point. Not that we are now solving a huge amount of problems with this bill. The connections between the islands and the continent, as well as between the islands themselves, are known to be in a constantly changing process. There is no system that can be developed once and for all, let's say, ideally. The people of Saaremaa have an understanding, or at least the authors of this draft, have such an understanding that they can do more quickly, more operationally, in better cooperation and more effectively. We want the population of the islands to grow and entrepreneurship to do even better than it has done so far. This also means that all communications must be even better than they have been.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U94	Jaanus Marrand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U95	Thank you! Dear waitress, The idea of this bill is extremely sympathetic, as is the passage you read about the address of the parish council. These principles are all very, very clear. However, there is one question about this draft, particularly as regards technical formalisation, and it concerns the first point, which says that a large island authority can organise a link between islands and the mainland. In fact, this is a state subsidy, i.e. the state must organise it. Organising is a very clear thing just when it needs to be arranged, it has to be done. Doesn't the current bill give you a little bit of ambiguity? If one has to arrange and the other can arrange, then the question arises as to who really does. Therefore, the wording of this draft here is not correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U96	Thank you, dear Marrand. There's even a grain of truth in your approach. But I'm a little more specific that the word'may' has been used here because we're not exactly familiar with what people are thinking in Hiiumaa and Muhu County, which are also great islands. The islanders are convinced they can handle this. However, since Muhumaa and Hiiumaa are also involved in this whole transport system, there is still a free choice if there is a will on the island, the state can give it that responsibility. If this free will is not on the island, I am not even going to appreciate their will or their ability right now, then it may also remain in the hands of the state. Let's just say it's such a proactive will to show that there is a desire in Saaremaa to have a greater say in this matter and perhaps to take this whole arrangement into its own hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U97	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U98	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I certainly acknowledge the great decision of the islanders to move forward in the context of the county, or one municipality. However, if we look at the past, there is no public transport centre in Saaremaa. If we also look at, for example, the organisation of all public transport that the rural government has coordinated, the islanders have not introduced much ticket revenue there, nor have they provided additional support to strengthen the network. Does this particular proposal in this draft also entail an obligation for the new municipality to make additional financial contributions itself? In fact, the public transport centre in Saaremaa does not have to be formed as such, as I understand, since the county is one municipality. What, then, are the costs that the municipality itself envisages in relation to this activity?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U99	Thank you for that question. I remember what I said in my report. In your question, there is such a finding that costs are likely to increase compared to today, because we are talking about ferry and air traffic management. Yes, when they grow, we cannot forget that the state is, however, partly funded. Much of the revenue comes from own income, ticket revenues. However, the possibilities and will of the municipality to finance itself can be spoken of as this draft progresses and we reach the budget negotiations. It cannot be said that the Saaremaa municipality is not interested in betting itself. The interest of Saaremaa is that people come to Saaremaa, that traffic is perfectly organised and that communications work. The same thing motivates them to contribute financially, however, but it cannot initially be some kind of cosmic growth or leap from funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U100	Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U101	Honored Ambassador of Saaremaa! I am perfectly clear on the problem of where this bill came from. But the solution in itself is that obligations are one thing and rights are another. If the islanders have money, you can not only arrange ferry and air traffic, but you can send a rocket to the moon if anyone has the chance. Suddenly, the solution is to find the opportunity for two municipalities to participate in dealing with all these problems, but the organisational side and payment will still remain in the state. The islanders and the giants would be able to have their say at municipal level.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U102	Thank you very much to the questioner. I understand that the giants and the islanders here will certainly find a common language, as you said in your question. We have now tabled a draft, the content of which is the restructuring of the division of labour between the Road Administration and the local government. To put it even more simply, we want to do more work there in Saaremaa, on the island, to make communications work well. If it goes on in such a way that the state still wants to do everything on its own, and if dealing with these issues remains with the Road Administration, which is also one option, then of course the islanders have an interest in having more say, and it will not go away. Here there are also examples from the Baltic Sea islands that such cooperation and the possibility of speaking with them is generally more intense than they are in Estonia today. But here was the statement of the council of Saaremaa, to which no political group opposed. As you know, you are transporting Saaremaa to the parish council. So the hall will decide what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U103	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! A very sympathetic initiative, who still has to stand up for the rights of the inhabitants and tourists of his island if not the local government. But I'd like to ask for a little clarification. From 1 January, the new Public Transport Act will be in force, which will put the organisation of air and ferry traffic to the Road Administration. Actually, we don't know exactly how this is going to work out, and maybe it's a little premature to put forward this bill today. Perhaps we could start by working together more. Because if a ferry arrives at any time in port, then other transport will have to be arranged so that these things can link well to each other. Maybe it's still such a place of cooperation to protect your interests perfectly with the Road Administration. Right now, it's like we're assuming there's no cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U105	You will see the matter on the basis of this bill in such a way that there will be no cooperation. Personally, as a person who appreciates cooperation, cooperation is always possible, and he will come if the parties want to. If they don't want it, it's always complicated. Now, you said it's kind of premature and we don't seem to know how this situation is going from 1 January and whether there are any failures at all. Maybe you're right, but in any case, the bill is on the table like this, and I can't change that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U106	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U107	Thank you, President-in-Office. A good colleague from Saaremaa! First of all, I acknowledge the great thinking of the islanders. I have my own personal touch with Saaremaa, actually my leg is on the ground there. But my question is twofold. On the one hand, did you discuss other forms of cooperation, such as not taking it on the municipality, but, as Eiki Nestorg asked, there would be a common form with the state in Hiiumaa, Saaremaa and perhaps on some other islands to organise public transport, air traffic, ferry traffic and perhaps missile traffic in the future? And the second question. The municipality of Saaremaa is not, however, a legal successor to Saare County, since there is in fact a large small island or Muhu as a municipality. The ladies are actually landing in Muhu County. How does this cooperation work between these different municipalities - between Saaremaa and the other municipalities that previously belonged to Saare County - work on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U108	I would say that we have not discussed the cooperation in launching missiles into space and that it will hardly ever come on the agenda, although I do not know. The remark that the barges are mooring in the ports of Muhu Island is also correct. After all, there is also an opinion here that I know that later a representative of the Commission will say that there is also a connection between the ports of the continent. It is otherwise concentrated in a single company called the Island Lines. At the moment, the options for cooperation have not yet been discussed very extensively. Basically, the issue of division of labour has been on the agenda. Of course, the draft provides, however, for the promotion of cooperation between all these parties: the Grand Islands, the Association of Municipalities, the Road Administration and the Ministry. It is said that cooperation is important and without it it would be impossible to improve the communication that residents and visitors expect to improve at all times. It's gotten better, but there's an increase in expectations, nothing to do about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U109	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, If we look at the relationship between the state and the municipality, we do not have anything supernatural in our current practice. The State allocates certain funds to ensure that the local government organises something. For me, the argument is not that the state will give money anyway and therefore it would not be reasonable for you to arrange anything for yourself. Apparently, the story of flying missiles was meant to test you on the remote and see if your nerves could hold out. If this important initiative is not realised, because it does not receive support for me, it would be symbolic in the sense that it would give the islanders the opportunity to break myths and say that Estonians can do very big things on the ground, so what could be the reason that a specific draft will not be supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U111	Thank you for that question. As I said, there will be a Commission waitress who will clarify a bit. As we know, the opinion of the Government of the Republic is also sought on the drafts, which you will hear from Mr Sults. Maybe there's some answer to your question why it might not be supported. In itself, the kind of way to say, a bit insular is that there is a certain geographical advantage on the islands, but maybe also the mental possibility that isolation is forcing people to look for more change. While it seems that things are going, stable and smooth, and it is not so important to make these changes, everyday life always brings about change. Why not look at the fact that ferry and air traffic management are all in the hands of the people of the island? Not at the Road Administration, on the island. There are many ways and forms to replant wise people or train them locally. I don't know how to get into the details here. That's the kind of thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U112	Eiki Nestor, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U113	For God's sake, I didn't want to test anyone. The municipal council of Hiiumaa will take a decision on Thursday. The content is the same and I very much support this statement. But it's very simple. It makes sense to do things in such a way that the wallet and the organiser are the same. If they do and the others pay, most things don't work out. In this case, due to the disappearance of rural governments, it is necessary to find such a point of contact between the state and the organizer of the state, who is responsible for ensuring that everyone who needs to arrive at Saaremaa and Hiiumaa and the local interests. The solution could be something else. Are you willing to continue working together to find a solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U114	Yes, thank you very much. I was pleased to hear that Hiiumaa will also make a statement in support of a possible change on Thursday. That's very nice. When you said that the wallet and the organiser must be the same, what would be even easier than to give the wallet to the option we have proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U115	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U116	Good manager! Good waitress! In fact, this is the organizational side of the technical draft of cooperation, how to do better, and it should be completely real. But my question is this: doesn't it concern you that when we were discussing the Small Islands Bill here earlier, the whole opinion of the islands was watered down? The islanders may think what they want, but for our sakes, we say we know better.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U117	Thank you, dear Peeter Ernits. Maybe then we'll learn from this last time, and now we won't flush when we vote. We're in favour.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U118	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U119	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'm gonna tear some into opera. I'm listening to this question-and-answer firework here, and I'm always crunching in my brain, if these aren't all half-solutions in the end. Shouldn't we be serious about preparing for a permanent connection between Saaremaa and the mainland in the form of a bridge or a tunnel? Of course, this cannot be done against the will of the islanders. Has a study been carried out that tells us how much of the islanders would support the fixed connection or how many would oppose it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U120	Thank you, dear Mart Helme. This is a very logical follow-up to this draft. The topic of permanent connection has been on the agenda for the first time in history at the end of the 19th century. Then, in the 1970s, the subject was once a little bit, briefly touched, but then there was another social order and it didn't go on. But now, in the early days of the restoration of independence, it was put back on the agenda very seriously and an environmental impact assessment was carried out. I think that's what I'm looking at on the Road Administration page, and that's where you can look at it. Ultimately, this does not prevent the establishment of a fixed connection. On several occasions people have also been asked if they would like Saaremaa not to remain an island but to become a peninsula when a fixed connection is created. Some people claim that the fixed link turns the island into a peninsula, although it can be disputed, because the bridge can be closed at some point and the island can still be preserved. It's such a theoretical approach. Opinions on the need for a fixed connection have changed slightly over time. I don't remember all the facts exactly. In any case, such an increase has been a positive attitude towards the fixed connection, but then again, as the opinions always change when different views become apparent, the notion that it is still good to be isolated on the island. In fact, the opinion changed very much when the first large ferry ships were built and a new quality of freight was created. Then the idea of a bridge seemed to fade a little bit. In the meantime, there was also the hope that perhaps the European Union would be willing to co-finance it somehow. They listened to the land and looked to see if private investors would be willing to contribute. However, there were no such things, no money was received from the European Union. There were new ferry ships and a change in the quality of travel and service. So this debate has now subsided. I am quite sure that the subject of the fixed connection will come up again, but probably not until 25 to 30 years later, perhaps a little earlier. In any case, this issue is not off the agenda, especially if we look at what is currently happening in the Gulf of Finland with the Helsinki-Tallinn connection. Today, if it is technically possible to build fixed connections with engineering wisdom and knowledge quite easily, it will come back sooner or later, but certainly not in the next 10 to 15 years. I remember one moment, which I'm going to mention because you asked about the fixed connection. I've talked about this before. A large Chinese official delegation once visited Saaremaa. Then the topic of the fixed connection was very keenly on the agenda, and they said this: "Ah, you want to build a bridge? Call us, we'll be ready in three years. ' But then they asked how many people there were on the island, whether there were a million. We said it wasn't. At the time, yes, that was the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U121	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U122	Good President! Dear colleague Urve Tiidus! I didn't want to test you either. Rather, it was the opera that did not have to do politics with a very serious face or a face to cry, which is why it was bringing the rocket to it. But the question is substantive. It now became clear that Hiiumaa will make a similar proposal next week, and your own answers turned out to include Pärnumaa and Läänemaa on the mainland side. Shouldn't we still be discussing, and hasn't you specifically discussed the possibilities for cooperation in a wider range, along with the country? However, it is a publicly guaranteed service. It is not a matter of paying, it is that it is a guaranteed service, not only for islanders, but also for others. The second question remains: how are you satisfied with the current service of the Road Administration? What are the main problems, and how can this be improved within the existing framework?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U123	Thank you. When I start at the end, I'll tell you how happy I am with this ferry traffic. It must be said that there are still days and weeks or, let's say, high seasons when there are positive and perhaps incomplete aspects of this arrangement that can be improved. People these days are very mobile. It is important for businesses that ferries are moving firmly on schedule. Fortunately, there is no ice problem in Saaremaa and there are no other such concerns; in Hiiumaa, low sea water is sometimes in trouble. Dissatisfaction always arises because of specific cases. Well, the lessons learned from these have been added from the state budget to the extra trips, and perhaps a little bit better adjustments have also been made to their personal timetables. However, we have to take into account that businesses do not have the opportunity to wait there in long order. In particular, with regard to promoting the economy and entrepreneurship of Saaremaa, whether tourism, freight transport or any other organisation of services, the link between the island and the mainland could be one area that functions perfectly. Only certain weather conditions could create an extraordinary situation, but everything else that man does, and the processes that people lead, should work well. As I've said many times, things are getting better and better, but there's always a way to do better. A lot of islanders still have this feeling that if this thing was organized from here on out, it could be even better. Just as there is a principle of subsidiarity in the Charter of Local Government. Municipalities do have many responsibilities and tasks, and one might ask why they still want them, as was the case here, let the state do and organise them. But such a bill has been put forward. If there is that will and power, vote for it. After that, we can go on with all these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U124	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U125	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have long thought here that one topic is indeed the principle of subsidiarity and the needs of local entrepreneurs. The second option is what comes from Scandinavia, namely the ferry connection is actually part of the extension of the road and is still an extension of the state road in order for people to be able to move from point A to point B. My question is that in Hiiumaa there is, as I understand it, a desire to approach in a similar way. Is it real here that Hiiumaa and Saaremaa are putting their backs together to form a joint body to organise all public transport and maritime traffic in one place and to form a competence centre in this regard, with specific resources and contributions from the Ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U126	Thank you, Andres Metsoja, for this constructive contribution to the possible development of the draft. Seriously. I'm looking at Eiki Nestor here, he's not shaking his head either, so it's probably possible, given that the Estonian islands are cooperating in the Baltic Sea Islands Community. Sometimes we should also take advantage of the opportunities that we have to make things better together. This idea stays on the verbatim, and I'll write it down later. We see no opposition to this idea, a perfectly logical move.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U127	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U128	Good manager! Good waitress! Yes, in my opinion, a sensible proposal, although technical, how to work together better. But you have said in this explanatory memorandum that it does not require money on the one hand, but on the other hand the social impact of the bill is considerable. Please open up a little bit of this remarkable effect. Well, right now, the ferry connection actually works presumably on Midsummer Day and Christmas, according to my imagination. What is the significance of the social impact if this technical change is approved?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U129	Thank you, Peter Ernits! Social impact, that should be defined right away. In addition to improving the quality of service, speeding up the decision-making process and getting closer to people and further improving connections between islands and the continent, the social impact will also be an increase in people's self-consciousness. We'll do it ourselves. In a sense, this aspect also exists here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U130	Honourable waitress! No further questions for you. Before I give the floor for the presentation of the commission, I promise you an explanatory note. The statement of the Saaremaa parish council has not been adopted to support this draft amendment of the Act initiated by the Reform Party, but to stress that the Saaremaa municipality would like more cooperation with the state and final decision-makers in the country should take greater account of the wishes of the rural municipalities from the outset. What we are discussing now is the text of the draft law initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, which is more radical than the statement made by the Municipality Council. Please, March Sults, waitress of the commission!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U131	Honorable Chairman! Colleagues! The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this issue at its meeting on Monday, including 13 November. The draft Act amending the Public Transport Act and the Local Government Organisation Act 509 was on the agenda to send the discussion to the first reading. The content review first gave us Kalle Laane, while the meeting was chaired by Sven Sester and Henrik Mägi in the minutes. Deniss Borodich, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marrandi, Kristen Michal, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru, Tarmo Kruusimäe, and Kaido Rosin, Head of Adviser-Secretariat, Adviser Marin Daniel and Adviser Piia Schults took part in the meeting. Toomas Kivimägi was missing. Kalle Laanet, representative of the initiator of the draft, Ain Tatter, Head of the Road and Railway Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Katrin Andre, Head of the Maritime Service of the Aeronautics and Maritime Department were invited. The debate on the draft was introduced by Kalle. That was the introduction. The draft provides for the possibility for local authorities of the large islands (Saaremaa, Muhumaa, Hiiumaa) to organise ferry and air traffic between the Estonian mainland and islands. The municipality would have the right to confirm or authorise the authority to approve ferry and air traffic schedules. To confirm everything is in such a very specific way of speaking. All activities would be carried out in cooperation with other municipalities and with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The draft was launched in the context of an administrative reform which would abolish land governments, which until now had to represent the interests of local residents in ferry and air traffic management. It is important to ensure that islanders have the opportunity to contribute to matters relating to ship and air traffic. According to the draft, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications would remain responsible and no change in the law would result in financial obligations. Saaremaa Municipality has expressed its support for the draft (see Annex 1) and Hiiumaa Municipality will discuss the matter at the meeting of the Municipality Council on 16 November. That was the introductory part. Then there was, I wouldn't say, a heated but basically specific discussion about things. As a representative of the Government, Ain Tatter explained that it is problematic for a local government to take on commitments paid with state resources. In that case, it's a little bit of a curved mirror. He expressed doubts that it would be possible to draw up the best timetable, taking into account the interests of all parties, as has been the case so far, with all kinds of popular movements, great events, etc. The kind of thing or the situation that the island community and the events taking place are not taken into account, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications doesn't remember. So, I'm going to make decisions. Firstly, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 21 November, including a consensual decision, i.e. one vote. Secondly, it was decided to propose the completion of the first reading of the draft, which was not supported. By Deniss Borodich and Kristen Michal, against Sven Sester, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marrandi, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru and Tarmo Kruusimäe. Thirdly, it was decided to propose the rejection of the draft at first reading, six in favour, two against, no abstentions. By Sven Sester, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marrandi, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru and Tarmo Kruusimäe, against Deniss Borodich, Kristen Michal. Should the Assembly decide otherwise, the deadline for amendments should be set at 10 working days, i.e. 5 December at 5 p.m., and this was a consensual decision. This is a brief summary to complement the main rapporteur, who gave a very thorough overview. Thank you very much to him. Please think and decide! But to make private traffic between islands, so that some large islands or slightly smaller islands are excluded, each private operator is his business. I can order this raft anytime and anywhere. I think that cooperation is the basis of everything, and I think that this cooperation will work without entering into the law, because we all aim to increase the country's prosperity and economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U132	A round of questions will be opened by Küllik's Hatter. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U133	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Doesn't the coalition go against its current actions to reject the bill? Indeed, you have implemented an administrative reform which, as we heard last night in this Chamber, was not just a territorial reform, but also a substantive reform. At the same time, there has been the abolition of rural governments, in which the municipalities were given several tasks along with the money. If you are now saying that you support the same principle that this bill bears to give the municipality independence in organising your life on almost all matters, why do you go against it yourself?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U134	Thank you, very good question! I mean, there's no conflict. Full cooperation, comprehensive negotiation and comprehensive information exchange opportunities will be offered. I think that, when charts are drawn up, it would be an extremely stupid economic person who would not consider who, who, where, why and how closely to carry, and what a great deal of subsidy or what kind of ticket price.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U135	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have also listened here to the reasoning of the initiator of the bill and to the very good constructive proposal made by my colleague Mr Metsoja. I would like you to repeat again, which were still the reasons why the Commission proposed to reject the draft law. What are the Commission's reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U137	If there's any procurement, it's not exactly written down here who's running them. It has been proposed that procurement is organised by the State, and the purse is in the hands of the State. In other words, if procurement is to be organised by a local authority, the local authority must also be responsible for them. It is unwritten that if the procurement is organised by the state, how is the state responsible? When everyone is responsible, no one is really responsible for the quality of service. That is one of the reasons why it was rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U138	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U139	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Very respectable waitress! If you just referred to the fact that there was something missing in the draft, wouldn't it have been easier to finish the first reading, to propose improvements and to move forward with this draft if you had nothing in essence against it? Maybe it was on this committee that the islanders had to feel a little bit like you used to when you were talking about casino islands? Some people thought you were insane, but now the real estate developers are discussing this issue so you can start building houses there. Is there any resemblance? The idea is just so forward that we don't understand it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U140	Thank you for a good question. But I don't think the islanders will clap their hands now if you call them crazy. But if it's so careful, then it's very nice. Then there is the eight-and-a-half-year path of suffering, but then the new Riigikogu says that you will see how nice the islanders came up with the good idea eight and a half years ago that they could have tightened the ferry schedules and all the other things. After all, the main rapporteur said very well: In the 19th century, it was thought that there should be a dam or a bridge between the islands. It's been over 200 years now, but this madness hasn't arrived yet. I mean, some things just take longer. But in rejection, Mr. Kruus, you missed a few things a little bit. It's not an insult, don't think about it! The fourth proposal was that if the large hall votes differently, the deadline for the amendments would be 10 working days and this would be 5 December. The Committee on Economic Affairs left the ends to decide on a large hall. So, power, power, cold head and smart mind! I am very pleased that you reminded me that one day a very cool thing was initiated that should come to the Bay of Paljassaare right away.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U141	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U142	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! I will seize your voice and continue with my colleague Krista Aru's question. Speaking of the reasons for the rejection, you said that this issue of procurement and liability was one of the reasons. You stressed: one reason. Please also state the other reasons on which the rejection was based.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U143	Thank you. That's a very good question. It's perfectly appropriate for a foreman. The answer must be thorough. At the beginning of my report, I read to you the introductory text of Mr Kalle Laanet, and there were certain actions in this commanding speech. That was one reason. How can cooperation within the framework or definition be written in such a way that one side of the words is in command, coercive or coercive? I have now put in Estonian a little bit more twists, don't you think for that I'm sorry, but that's exactly what it is. One more comment: Kalle Laane did not listen to the Commission's decision and was not in the final discussion because he stood up and went out and said that he knew how the Commission would vote anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U144	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I am opening negotiations for the political groups to discuss the general principles of the draft law. Jaanus Marrand on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U145	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on this draft in this Chamber shows that we are all a bit of islanders or giants, both from here and from that side of the Chamber, because in reality there is probably no one against the idea of this draft in this Chamber. Everyone's for it. This original idea, on the basis of which this draft has probably also been made, has been made very clear by the council of the parish of Saare and will immediately begin to be expressed by the council of Hiiu parish. I would also say a little about the debate that took place in the Commission, because the debate was actually wider than the co-rapporteur spoke here from a more technical side. The actual summary of the debate is this: the fact that the people of the islands are significantly more involved in the discussions on all ferry connections/air traffic, the drafting of charts and the organisation in question is elementary and understandable. The reason for this is that an institution such as rural government simply disappears from place to place. Especially in the case of islands, because the municipality council and the municipality government of the island are, in fact, the highest organiser of the two great islands. This in itself results in a review of the whole package of laws relating to island associations. It is also obvious that the result will be better if this whole process is reviewed. If there was a rural government somewhere in the past, which had to take into account people's or local governments' opinions, now it's like a phase has disappeared. The obvious reason why the Committee on Economic Affairs did not support this draft and why it cannot be supported is rather the approach that the initiator of the draft said himself at the committee meeting. It was the initiator's own will that all procurements and all public finances would still remain in the hands of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The real desire was for local authorities to be more involved. In this case, however, this draft differs a little from this whole debate, as it has been said here that the municipal body can organise. The central government of the country, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, is organising the whole issue anyway. If, now, according to this draft, we give further permission to the local authority to organise it, that in itself will actually make the whole process more vague and unclear. It is therefore not already purely technically acceptable in this form. Now, if you look at how to proceed with this issue, in fact, the officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications were also given the task of reviewing all legislative acts in this regard in order to find out how more municipalities could be involved. Where there is a rural government, the municipality must be written there, even as such the easiest replacement place. Secondly, the same initiatives that have also been discussed in our group under the leadership of Eiki Nestor, or what Mr Metsoja has said today, are certainly welcome. So basically from one end of the hall and the other end of the hall to the middle floor. I am sure that the requests of the giants and the islanders to have their say in organising the associations that concern them will be resolved. It is a good idea, but it is obviously a haste in such a process, and it does not fulfil its purpose, which this bill has been called upon to establish. It must be said that, when we look at the Commission's votes, one of the two representatives of the initiators' group who were present, also said that he would vote in favour of this draft simply because he is a member of this group. In essence, it understands these reasons why this draft is not the most appropriate form. So let us join forces and find a better and more effective method of helping the islanders and the giants, and this will be a more perfect principle than what is expressed in this hastily drafted draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U146	Andres Ammas on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U147	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! When I first read this draft we are discussing, it seemed to me, frankly, a little political point-picking. Now, as I follow today's reasoning, I am pleased to see that in this Chamber there will be such a positive synergy at the best of times and at the best of times during the joint debate. Already in the course of the debate, even better results will be achieved than the one at which they were at the beginning. This happens sometimes and it is actually quite nice to feel that this is still possible and sometimes the wall of coalition and opposition crumbles during the debate. In my opinion, this is the positive example that has happened today. For this reason, it is completely incomprehensible for me and my colleagues from the Free Party Group in the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs, which my colleague Jaanus Marrand has now supported, to vote on this draft. We don't get it. Without a doubt, the procedure for this draft must be continued and our conviction deepened during this debate. After all, the technical shortcomings that have been referred to can be corrected and supplemented together. At the moment, it seems a little hypocritical when the coalition representatives say that, oh, how nice, you need support and everything is so good, but then it is proposed to vote on the draft. It's not fair, it doesn't make sense. The Free Party supports the further procedure of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U148	On behalf of the Urmas Kruuse Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U149	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! I very much like the debate on this draft. I particularly like the part concerning the Commission's work, the decision and this debate and the questions that have come from the floor. I do not remember that the Commission has very often taken the conditional decision that if the bill is to be passed in the Chamber, you should do it and do it like this, you should have another reading, etc. At least I haven't noticed before, maybe it's my fault. But it actually gives me the idea that people are either afraid to say their point of view once and for all or doubt that suddenly they might get hit. Then you have to take your hat off in front of the islanders. They're like Vikings. The continentalrs are struggling to make a decision and answer, afraid of the Vikings. In my opinion, this is an interesting draft and instead raises the question of whether processing it can trigger new processes, a new debate on what a local authority can do and what it could do. I'm reminded of this way of expressing or saying what the hell you want to do about ferry traffic. Perhaps this debate will take us where we understand that we have become literally larger from economic and also from knowledge at the local government level, we are able to organise a lot more things on the spot and it is no longer important that yesterday or today everything was organised by the state. I therefore very much hope that you will now be more determined to press the voting button and with the Vikings as one side, in order to move forward with this debate. And when some shortcomings are found, we can work them all out together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U150	There is no further negotiation request, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 509 at first reading; we need to vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the Economic Commission 509 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 36 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal, 26 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was supported. The 509 bill fell out of procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U151	First reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the training programme for training and defence capacity building in Iraq led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation'. Jüri Luik, the secretary of defense, waitress of the initiators, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U152	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This is again the time when we need to review the mandate of the Defence Forces regarding international cooperation, participation in international operations. In this context, I will present ten mandates to the Riigikogu, which are already ongoing operations, and one mandate relating to our participation in the JEF. The first decision concerns the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the training programme for training and defence capacity building in Iraq led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. This is an operation related to NATO's activities, although the US is in charge of the whole Iraqi operation in a broader sense. Right now, we're in surgery with one of the active troops, and in the next training cycle, we're planning to continue with up to two active troops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U153	Thank you, Secretary of Defense. Any questions for the initiator of the bill? Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U154	Thank you. You can't have the weather. There has always been a political dispute over these missions. Your ally, the Centre Party, has either been against missions or has left largely unvoted, demonstrating its spirit. How was it this time, is it normal for them to have a position depending on the seat or was there a dispute in the government? This issue applies to all missions. How unanimous are you now in the government on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U155	The government was unanimous in submitting these decisions to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U156	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U157	Good manager! Good minister! I've always asked the Secretary of Defense a question here. This is the first chance to ask a man who knows. I ask where these changes come from. For example, at first, we had a guy there, but now there's going to be two. One year, when there was a flood of refugees in the Mediterranean, we had a couple of men to put a stop to the flood of refugees from Libya. At the time, I asked why there couldn't be five men or maybe we could lay some ground. Where do these figures come from? Is this a symbolic thing, especially when one becomes two, or is there some kind of records behind it? What does it really do?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U158	Thank you for that question. Very briefly, the number of men and women who are in a particular operation must, of course, fit into the mandate you have given, but from there on, the government or in this case, the Ministry of Defence is already negotiating with regard to the needs of a particular operation. Right now, there's a training mission, which means you need specialists in a certain area. They are normally asked of us and, if possible, we will help, as I said, within the limits of your mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U159	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U160	Good manager! Good minister! In the process of self-esteem, I ask if this is the same mission that was operating in Anbar. Where are they in Iraq?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U161	This mission is in Baghdad. Anbari's is still coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U162	Thank you, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik! The rapporteur for the National Defence Committee is Anneli Ott. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U163	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, According to this draft decision of the Riigikogu, Estonia will continue to participate with up to five members of the Defence Forces in the training programme to support the training and defence capacity building in Iraq led by NATO in 2018, the English name being Training and Capability Building. This is a NATO non-combat programme aimed at the alliance against the threats from the south. The training programme shall provide for the deployment of small-scale and short-term rotating training teams to Iraq. It contributes to the fight against military medicine and improvised explosive devices. The draft also provides for the possibility of increasing the number of Estonian Defence Forces personnel during the rotation period, so that additional contributions can be made to a time- and resource-changing programme based on the needs of Iraqi training. The draft was presented to the members of the Commission by representatives of the Ministry of Defence's administration, including the Deputy Chancellor of Defence Kristjan Prikk, including at the meeting on 13 November. This is a NATO programme launched earlier this year. On 20 November, the National Defence Commission also received an overview of the Defence Forces units in the mission areas and preparations for the continuation of the mission, during a visit to the General Staff of the Defence Forces. According to the review provided to the Commission, the mission programme provides for the training of Iraqi local security forces. The aim of Estonia's defence policy is to join such initiatives as early as possible. Although this is a mission on the same legal basis as the US-led international military operation Inherent Resolve, in which Estonia is already involved in defence cooperation in Iraq, in this case the operation and its framework are the second. Estonia started to contribute to the programme in November. This draft decision requests an extension of the Mission's deadline and the possibility to contribute further, if necessary. Thus, on the basis of this draft, Estonia fulfils its allied obligations arising from NATO membership. We had such procedural decisions in the Commission. At its meeting on 13 November (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft under discussion be included on the Riigikogu agenda for the first reading on 21 November. The deadline for amendments is 5 December at 5.15 p.m. The draft was appointed rapporteur on behalf of the Commission. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U164	Any questions for the waitress? No questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 538 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5 December at 5.15 p.m. Honourable Riigikogu! Before we go to the next item, we need to make a procedural decision. I have three requests. Firstly, Hannes Hanso, Chairman of the National Defence Committee, proposes to extend the plenary session today until the agenda items are exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and the Central Party have also expressed this wish. This can be decided by the House. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the National Defence Committee, the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Centre Party to extend the plenary session until the agenda items are exhausted, but no longer than 14. Please take a stand and vote. There were 53 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, no one opposed, with one abstention. The working time of the plenary session has been extended until the items on the agenda have been exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U165	Let's continue. First reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the United Kingdom United States Party'. Jüri Luik, Secretary of Defense, the initiating waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U166	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In this case, this is the only new mandate. We are talking about the decision of the Riigikogu to use the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the United Kingdom. This is, as has been said, the first time we have applied for the mandate of 20 active troops to operate in international operations, in this particular case within the JEF. We would send a demining team, an anti-explosion team, and a strategic communication team, as well as a medical team and an air traffic controller. We're not talking about a specific operation right now, we're talking about men and women joining the JEF. This is a United Kingdom-led unit with 10,000 men. The JEF is in constant readiness and can in principle be used to fulfil all international obligations, i.e. those led by NATO, the European Union and our allies. In this case, it is very important to us that we are talking about a unit run by the British. It is no secret to us that the British battalion is constantly located in Estonia. It is quite logical that, for our part, too, we are contributing to international frameworks where Britain plays an important role. However, it is important to understand that the expulsion of a specific unit involved in this decision is decided by Estonia separately. This is not a unit in which all parties should go out at the same time, expulsion is decided on a case-by-case basis, but the Government of the Republic still holds the mandate for this decision. I would like to remind you once again that this is a unit in constant readiness, i.e. the idea of reacting as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U167	Questions for the waitress. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U168	Good manager! Good minister! It's a good way to get up to speed. Now we have excellent cooperation with the United Kingdom and we are sending 20 men, but I read here that it is intended to do so in the budget of the Ministry of Defence of less than EUR 100000. If it's a year, you have to divide 100,000 by 12 and that's about 800 euros a month. Is that the case, or is there some other kind of money hiding? Is such an amount of work so important?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U169	Thank you. That's a good question. As these entities or their formation are not actually going out at the moment, this amount is primarily an additional amount relating to the organisation of that entity. Of course, we are talking about professionals who will be in the service anyway, so all normal money, salary money, etc., will come from the usual budget. This is indeed a small addition to the holding of this unit. But the expulsion of the unit, in case it happens, is separate from the operation's money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U170	Thank you, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. The Commission's rapporteur is Hannes Hanso, Chairman of the National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U171	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This draft decision of the Riigikogu is for the first time in the Riigikogu, the UK United Expeditionary Forces, the abbreviation JEF UK (Joint Expeditory Force) is, as the previous speaker has already explained, initiated and owned. In ownership, the United Kingdom, or Great Britain, means that it is a framework country. It is therefore a will coalition led by the United Kingdom and a will coalition with membership from other countries. This means that JEF will be made up by the States associated with the Coalition of Wills to determine the military forces that are in constant readiness, which form a unitary army of all types of troops that are uniformly managed. For the United Kingdom, JEF is both a sovereign force and an international force in parallel. The use of JEF for a specific operation shall be decided by the United Kingdom in consultation with the other JEF partner countries. It is very important to understand that each partner country decides its own participation or non-participation itself, or sovereignly. Estonia joined JEF in 2015, signing the JEF cooperation agreement with the Netherlands, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway and Denmark. Finland and Sweden have now joined the cooperation agreement. For Estonia, joining JEF is, I would say, a natural continuation of cooperation with the United Kingdom, given both very good cooperation in operations in Afghanistan and the current military presence of the United Kingdom here in Estonia as part of the NATO presence. The contribution of JEF to the composition of JEF is therefore important for defence policy and is also an important operational and training output for the Estonian Defence Forces. This draft decision confirms Estonia's readiness to contribute to JEF's possible operation in 2018 up to 20 active troops with niche capabilities: ERW Demining Team, ERW Fight Team, Strategic Communication Team, Medical Team and Air Fire Manager. The costs of participating in the operation, as we have already heard, will be covered by the budget of the Ministry of Defence's administration. For the following year, the Riigikogu has now completed two readings in the draft state budget law for a possible participation in the JEF operation of EUR 98500. At the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 13 November this year, the Deputy Secretary-General for Defence of the Ministry of Defence Kristjan Prikk and other representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces presented to the Commission a draft decision by the JEF at the same time as other draft missions involving the Defence Forces. In addition, on 20 November, or yesterday, the National Defence Commission visited the General Staff of the Defence Forces, where members of the National Defence Commission were briefed on the units of the Defence Forces in the mission areas as well as on the readiness of the Defence Forces. At its meeting on 13 November (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose that the Management Board of the Riigikogu include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu. I was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. In addition, the National Defence Committee (consensus) decided to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft decision. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5 December at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U172	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 540 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5 December at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U173	The decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on a peace-building mission in Kosovo" is the first reading of the draft 541. On behalf of the initiator, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U174	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We are indeed talking about two active troops serving in KFOR, who are active at the KFOR headquarters in Pristina, and we are asking for a mandate for three active troops. From the point of view of our foreign and security policy, this is a very necessary operation. I recall that Estonia has been in the Kosovo operation with very strong forces in our sense. The current situation in the Balkans, including Kosovo, is, of course, not comparable to what it was at the height of the Kosovo operation, so in itself, it can be said that KFOR, thanks to the fact that we are asking for only two or three people to be sent there, has been very successful. However, some support for Kosovo's security, particularly in terms of training and coordination, is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U175	Questions for the waitress! No, it's not. Thank you. The rapporteur of the Commission is Mr Ain Lutsepp, Member of the National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U176	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable ambassadors! According to this draft decision of the Riigikogu, Estonia will continue to contribute to the NATO-led international peace-building mission KFOR (Kosovo Force) in Kosovo in 2018, based on UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999. Estonia fulfils its allied responsibilities arising from NATO membership. Since 2010, the service of the active troops of the Estonian Defence Forces has been at KFOR headquarters in Priština, the capital of Kosovo. Kosovo's stability has a significant impact on the security of both the Western Balkans and Europe as a whole. The aim of the international forces in which Estonia participates is to support international security and stability in Kosovo. At the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 13 November this year, Deputy Secretary-General of Defence Policy of the Ministry of Defence Kristjan Prikk and other representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces introduced draft missions involving Kosovo and other Defence Forces. In short, we have examined all the draft missions. On 20 November, as the previous speakers mentioned, the National Defence Commission also visited the General Staff of the Defence Forces, where the Chief of Staff, Brigadier General Martin Herem, and other active troops gave an appropriate level of overview of the Defence Forces' units in the mission areas and their readiness to continue the mission in Kosovo. At its meeting on 13 November (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose that the Management Board of the Riigikogu include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu. The rapporteur for the Commission was appointed here. In addition, the National Defence Committee (consensus) decided to propose that the Riigikogu set the deadline for amendments at 5 December at 5.15 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U177	Questions for the waitress. No, it's not. Thank you, Ain Lutsepp! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I will set the deadline for the 541 amendments at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U178	The decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon' was first reading of the draft 547. Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik continues on behalf of the initiators. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U179	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We are talking about the decision of the Riigikogu concerning the continuation of our peacekeeping mission in Lebanon under the UN flag. I recall that this is Estonia's biggest international mission today. Right now, we have 38 men there, and we're asking for a mandate for 50 men. We are talking about a group-sized unit within the Irish-Finland Joint Battalion. Of course, participating in this mission will help to protect stability in the region, but also to increase Estonia's visibility in the UN. It is not a combat mission, it is a peacekeeping mission, and therefore it is moving around South Lebanon in a way that monitors the local situation. However, this is not a situation of tension which would require armed action or where there would be a likely armed conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U180	Questions. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U181	Thank you. Dear Minister, According to the explanatory statement of the bill, as well as your statement, this is a peacekeeping operation. Predictably, the next draft is also a peace-building operation that should monitor peace. Both operations or both entities shall operate in full or in part in Lebanon. Please explain the difference between them slightly now or during the discussion of the next draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U182	Yeah! Thank you for that question. This mission, which we are currently discussing, is a unit that is armed and basically only moves on one side of the Lebanese-Israeli border, on the Lebanese side. Their mission is to look at the situation concerning possible tensions between Lebanon and Israel. On the other hand, this is linked to the fact that Hezbollah, which is listed as terrorist organisations in the European Union and also in the United States, is very active in South Lebanon. There is no conflict in this sense now, but the situation is tense enough to move armed. There are also rapid response teams, where Estonia does not belong. If there is any conflict, these units will be brought to the area and they will react as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U183	Thank you. The rapporteur of the Commission is Madis Milling, Member of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U184	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading, including at its meeting on 13 November. Kristjan Prikk, Deputy Secretary for Defence Policy of the Ministry of Defence and other representatives of the Ministry and the Defence Forces participated in this meeting on behalf of the author. In connection with the draft, the National Defence Commission visited the Defence Forces General Staff on 20 November, where the members of the commission received an overview at the appropriate level from Brigadier General Martin Herem and other representatives of the Defence Forces of the command of the Estonian Defence Forces in the international mission areas and the preparation of the Estonian Defence Forces unit to continue their participation in the UNIFIL mission. According to the draft, a unit of up to 50 active members of the Estonian Defence Forces will continue on the UNIFIL mission in the composition of the Finnish-Irish battalion. The majority of Estonia's contingent is made up of a mechanized infantry team with a logistics element and staff officers, whose tasks include prevention, observation, patrolling, manning control posts and ensuring the security of UNTSO for observation mission in the same region. It is a mission of the United Nations classic so-called blue helmets. As a reminder, the Estonian Defence Forces also participated in this mission in 1996-1997, with a unit the size of the company, and this was the second foreign mission for the Defence Forces at all. As a member of a delegation from the National Defence Commission, I had the opportunity to visit the missions of Lebanon, including UNIFIL and UNTSO mentioned above, from 30 January to 2 February. I therefore consider it necessary to pass on some of the observations made in our report. At the time, we met the Lebanese Minister for Defence Yacoub Saraf in Beirut, who acknowledged Estonia's contribution and said that UNIFIL was one of the most successful operations. With several days in UNIFIL and UNTSO base camp and visiting the so-called blue control line between Lebanon and Israel, as well as the UNIFIL patrol bases in its immediate vicinity, we observed that the Estonian contingent under the leadership of its then Commander Major Ivo Silbaum was very motivated and professional. We were also recognized by the Irish and Finnish Defence Forces. Estonian units have NATO membership as their dowry. Several fighters in the Estonian unit have a direct battle experience, which was monitored with awe. The Estonian Defence Forces did a great job of fulfilling their duty. Very good contact with local residents is important. For example, Estonia was the only party to the three battalions who had been able to send out a trained medic, this is Lieutenant Kesksehaf. This shows once again the ingenuity and flexibility of the Estonian side and the high level of professionalism on this mission. Another point which was not addressed in the Commission's preparation for reading the draft, as the Minister of Defence was unable to attend this committee meeting, but which was included in the report of the National Defence Committee delegation. It is worth considering whether to send reservists to UNIFIL's mission, as Finland does. In the case of Finland, up to 80% of such missions are reserved forces. Maybe there shouldn't be only active troops on a mission like this. The Scouts Battalion's militia are at times overqualified for this level of mission. The same tasks could be successfully carried out by the reserve forces and the Defence League, and this would also provide the Defence League with mission experience. But now returning to the draft, as a member of the UN, Estonia contributes to security and stability in UNIFIL's operating area. Estonia's participation and visibility in the UN missions will enable the UN Security Council to become a non-permanent member for the period from 2020 to 2021. Finally, procedural decisions. The National Defence Committee decided, with its consensus decision of 13 November, to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. In addition, the Commission (consensus) decided that the deadline for the submission of draft amendments was, by law, 5 December at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U185	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Madis Milling! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 547 is complete. The deadline for amendments is 5 December at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U186	The next is draft 548, the extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria. Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U187	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In this case, we are indeed talking about a post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria. Again, this is an extension of the mission. We're asking for a six-man mandate for this operation, so right now we have three men there. To continue with the question that has already been asked, these are unarmed observers, who, in a very classic UN way, are located in the Lebanese border regions, on the one hand, and in Israel, on the other. Their security is ensured either by the local armed forces or by the armed forces on the Lebanese side of the United Nations peacekeeping mission. It is indeed a situation in which observational information is simply viewed and passed on to the relevant bodies of the United Nations, which are reporting on it. Perhaps it is important to stress that the UNTSO mission is not in Syria, where there is now an active military conflict, but between Lebanon and Israel, so it is rather a peaceful but tense situation. There is no inevitable military conflict there at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U188	Questions for the Minister. There aren't any. Thank you. The Commission's rapporteur is Mart Helme, Vice-President of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U189	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of this draft, the deadline for the use of up to six members of the Defence Forces' active force will be extended until the end of next year for UNTSO, which is the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization, led by the United Nations, and in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria it will be a revir. The military observation mission mentioned in this draft is based on UN Security Council Resolution No 50 of 1948 and Estonian Defence Forces have been participating in the mission as observers and staff officers since 1997. A delegation from the National Defence Commission visited Lebanon and UNTSO and UNIFIL base camp from 30 January to 1 February and from direct experience it can be argued that the observation mission will definitely last longer than until 2018. The observers of the officers of the Estonian Defence Forces deserve a high assessment and their experience of international association as an intermediary between the two hostile parties and as observers is very necessary. The UNTSO mission is a purely UN so-called 'blue helmet observation mission'. As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to peace in this troubled region. Estonia is actively participating in UN missions, which are in line with our foreign and security policy decisions, inter alia, to increase its visibility in the UN. As we know, Estonia is applying for a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for the years 2020 to 2021. The National Defence Committee discussed this draft before submitting it to first reading at the meeting of 13 November, attended by Kristjan Prik, Deputy Secretary of Defence Policy, and representatives of the Ministry and the Defence Forces. The draft includes a meeting of the National Defence Commission, including 20 November, to the Defence Forces General Staff, where the members of the commission received an overview at the appropriate level from Brigadier General Martin Herem and other officers of the General Staff of the Defence Forces of the Defence Forces of the international mission areas and the preparation of the Defence Forces for the continuation of the UNTSO mission in particular. At its meeting on 13 November (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be included on the agenda of the Riigikogu meeting on 21 November for the first reading and to propose that the Riigikogu stop the first reading of the draft. It was decided to set 5 December at 5.15 p.m. for amendments to the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U190	No questions for the waitress. Thank you, Mart Helme! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 548 is complete. The deadline for amendments is 5 December at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U191	First reading of draft 539 of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the implementation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations." On behalf of the initiator, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U192	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will present to you a draft decision entitled 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the first contribution to it by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations'. This year, we apply in the same way as last year under § 34 (4) of the National Defence Act for your mandate to use up to 50 active troops in 2018. We are talking about the first contribution to an international military operation and the operations already mentioned related to an operation led by NATO, its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations. The question of the use of an exception mandate is primarily related to a critical need, i.e. a situation where in extremes situations a rapid deployment of the Defence Forces unit is required. This exceptional mandate has never been used by the Government of the Republic and every operation in the visible future, for example, if we increase the use of the Defence Forces in Afghanistan, is covered by a separate mandate. But theoretically, it is possible, and the talk is not about a large unit, but about such a need. Deportation of a unit in this dimension should take place quickly. Of course, the law provides that this can only take place in consultation with the National Defence Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U193	Questions for the Minister. Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U194	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Actually, you've already answered a lot of my question. I understand that this is a so-called 'blank', which we had some disputes about here last time, and so far it has not been used. Perhaps I remember wrong, I do not have a law in my head, but the current wording provides for NATO, the European Union or the United Nations missions. Does not the law also allow for a general mandate covering other international missions? It is very good, in my opinion, that it has not been specifically mentioned, because in this form it is much more acceptable than otherwise. The question, then, is this: firstly, is this mandate currently somewhat restricted, which is positive in itself, and secondly, is it that, if the mission is to take place on this basis, the extension of this mission will still have to receive a mandate in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U195	We are talking about an operation led by NATO, a NATO Member State, the European Union or the United Nations. And, of course, this is a 'quick expulsion'. If it goes to extend the mandate of the operation, of course it falls within the competence of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U196	No further questions. The Commission's rapporteur is Hannes Hanso, Chairman of the National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U197	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the Chamber! The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to the first reading in its s. At the meeting of 13 November, Kristjan Prikk, Deputy Secretary of Defence Policy of the Ministry of Defence, who is still here on the balcony and other representatives of the Ministry of Defence administration presented draft missions involving the Defence Forces, including the draft under discussion. The draft is also related to yesterday's session of the National Defence Commission, or 20 November, to the Defence Forces General Staff, where the Chief of Staff, Brigadier General Martin Herem, and other officers gave an appropriate level of overview of what is happening in the international mission areas and the Defence Forces' readiness to participate in the international military operation for the first time. The draft under discussion is based on § 34 (4) of the National Defence Act, according to which the Riigikogu, by decision, sets the limit for the number of active troops each year, the number of active troops that can be involved in a military mission for the purpose of maintaining or restoring peace and security, or any other international military operation in accordance with generally accepted principles and standards of international law, under the terms of Chapter VI or VII of the Charter of the United Nations, under the responsibility of NATO, that Member State, the European Union or the United Nations, and that important part will now come for the first time. The emphasis is therefore on the first wager. Further use of the Defence Forces in the same operation was also requested by one of the pre-questioners here, and this is also the subject of a general decision pursuant to § 34 (1) of the National Defence Act. Thus, a further mandate, or a continuation mandate, would be granted either by the Riigikogu. Parliamentary control and the involvement of the government will be ensured in such a way that in future, following the decision of the Riigikogu, the Defence Forces will be instructed to take up or terminate their participation in another international military mission, the Government of the Republic, taking into account the position of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. The order will then be immediately notified to the President of the Republic, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu and the Chairman of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. I would like to remind you that this wording was laid down in § 34 61 of the National Defence Act on the initiative of the National Defence Committee when we first dealt with the same-sensory draft decision of the Riigikogu, which was in force until the end of 2016. The draft gives a mandate to use one group of the Estonian Defence Forces, i.e. up to 50 active troops. Estonia's contribution and number of active troops depend on the needs of the specific operation and the possibilities of the state. Estonia may deploy staff officers as well as some units, such as the demining team, the infantry group or a special unit. At its meeting on 13 November (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft decision be completed. By the deadline for submitting amendments, we offer the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, including 5 December at 5.15 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U198	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. There aren't any. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 539 is complete. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 5 December at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U199	Extension of the term for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia, first reading. Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U200	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members! Indeed, we are talking about extending the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia. We wish to continue our engagement on this mission. Estonia is currently participating in the operation with one staff officer and one medical officer on the basis of Spain. This is perhaps the most well-known of operations under the European flag. Together with Estonia, 25 European Union countries participate, Ireland, Croatia and Denmark do not participate. The mandate of the operation relates to the need to prevent and prevent the activities of criminal networks involved in trafficking in human beings and the loss of refugees on their journey across the sea. To this end, the freedom of movement of smugglers is restricted, as well as the identification, occupation and destruction of vessels and other property. All of this is done when there is a suspicion that such tools will be used to smuggle persons or to trafficking in human beings. The mission has been given some additional tasks by the Council of the European Union, such as the supervision of Libyan Coast Guard members trained in the context of the operation. I recall that this operation will not be able to enter Libya's territorial waters, which is why on the Libyan side we are working using the rather weak Libyan border guards, which this operation will strengthen. Information is also collected on oil being illegally transported from Libya and the exchange of information on trafficking in human beings between the countries of the European Union is enhanced. Okay, that's what I'm done with right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U201	Questions for the Minister. No, it's not. It is. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U202	Thank you, Minister. I was wondering why the three countries you mentioned did not participate in this mission. Is there any way to explain this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U203	Thank you. In the case of Croatia, I cannot even say, but Ireland does not participate because Irish law states that the mission must only take place under the flag of the United Nations. Denmark has an opt-out, i.e. they have said, and have also written down, that they are not participating in the European Union's common security and defence policy in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U204	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U205	Thank you. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea since 1984 allows all ships to enter the territory of any country if this is done for a peaceful purpose and the rescue of those in distress is certainly the case. So why not go to Libya is a big question mark. But I'd like to ask you this. You said that boats and other vessels would be taken away from human smugglers. How much has it been done over the last year, for example, and I mean not only those that have already reached Europe at the end of the day, but those that are really there somewhere in the Mediterranean, on the coast of Africa, to prevent movement and human smuggling?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U206	Thank you. As far as your first question is concerned, since this is a military operation, they would not enter the territorial waters of the Libyan coast for peaceful purposes. It is also important to remember here that the Libyan Government has not given a mandate. Let us be clear: they have even refused to give Sophia a mandate to enter Libya's territorial waters. As regards the number of vessels detained, the boats and vessels have been neutralised to a total of 491.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U207	There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Negotiation request... There is also Hannes Hanso, rapporteur for the National Defence Committee. Thank you, Minister Jüri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U208	Respectables! The draft allows up to six active members of the Estonian Defence Forces to continue to contribute to the military mission of EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia next year. On a side note, I say that the name Sophia was added to the mission after the German cruiser on the mission rescued 454 boat refugees, one of whom, on 24 August 2015, a woman gave birth to a daughter who, in turn, was named after the ship, the cruiser. The objective of this European Union military mission is to prevent trafficking in human beings in the Central Mediterranean Sea, between the territorial sea of Italy and Malta and the territorial waters of Libya. Estonia has been participating in this military mission since August 2015. The Estonian Defence Forces have contributed to this mission with a staff officer and medical officer. According to the mission, Estonia has also contributed financially to the training of the Libyan Coast Guard. By participating in the mission, Estonia fulfils its European Union's allied responsibilities. I must also mention here the fact that, on the basis of the status of the European Union Presidency Parliament and the Member State participating in the mission, the members of the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs met. On 24 August, then, it will be again on the 24th, one of the 24th dates I have already named EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia's commander, Rear Admiral Enrico Credendino, who gave a presentation on the progress of the mission as well as on his visions of the future. This meeting took place at the initiative of Rear Admiral Credendino himself and was, of course, very welcome. The draft is also related to the National Defence Commission. 20 November Departure session to the Defence Forces General Staff, where the Commission received an overview of the participation of the Estonian Defence Forces in international mission areas and the readiness of the Defence Forces to continue the European Union military mission under discussion from Brigadier General Herem and other active troops. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft with Kristjan Prik, Deputy Chancellor of Defence of the Ministry of Defence and other representatives of the Ministry's administration in his s. November 13th and decided (consensus) to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be included for the first reading on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu. The rapporteur for the draft was appointed here. The National Defence Committee (consensus) also decided to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. In addition, the National Defence Committee (consensus) decided to propose a deadline for the submission of legislative amendments, including 5 December at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U209	Questions for the Chairman of the National Defence Commission. No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. First reading of Bill 545 is complete. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 5 December at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U210	Draft 542 first reading of the decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic on the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the reaction forces of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U211	Honourable Chairman and Members of the Riigikogu! It is a decision on the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state within the reaction forces of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. Again, Estonia has been part of their response forces in previous years, but in this case, as this year, we wish to participate with up to 200 active troops: the infantry company and its support elements, special forces and staff officers. A rapid response force, NRF, is a high-ready unit capable of performing military operations at any point in the world. The NRF will provide NATO's rapid response capability and will play a key role in launching NATO collective defence operations with very short notice. I recall that the use of the NRF is decided unanimously by the North Atlantic Council, which means that NATO can only use the NRF with the consent of Estonia. The NRF is, as I said, intended primarily for collective defence, and it can also be used and used in humanitarian aid operations. The NRF is capable, depending on the nature and other aspects of the operation, of organising operations both independently and in the framework of other military operations or in cooperation with other entities outside the NRF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U212	Questions for the Secretary of Defense. No, it's not. Thank you, George Luik! The Commission's rapporteur is Ants Laaneots. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U213	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading at its meeting on 13 November. Kristjan Prik, Deputy Secretary of Defence Policy of the Ministry of Defence, and other representatives of the Ministry of Defence's administration took part. The draft is also related to yesterday's National Defence Committee's departure session to the Defence Forces General Staff, where the members of the commission received a comprehensive overview from Brigadier General Martin Herem and other Defence Forces officers of the events and preparations for participating in the NATO response forces mentioned in the draft decision. Now for the purpose of the draft under discussion, which should be familiar to you from earlier years. Estonia's participation in NATO response forces NRF comes from NATO membership. All NATO countries contribute to the NRF, except Iceland, which does not have its own army. The NRF, as a response force, is the most important tool for the rapid launch of NATO's collective self-defence operations, if necessary. Thus, participation in the NRF is also directly related to Estonia's security. NATO response teams may be used for collective defence operations under the NATO Treaty in accordance with Chapters VI and VII of the United Nations Charter. In addition, there are 40,000 military personnel in the NRF, including the 5,000-man Rapid Response Team VJTF (Very High Reedness Joint Task Force) in one or two days' readiness. The use of the NRF shall be decided by the NATO Council acting unanimously. This means that we, Estonia, also need our consent. According to the draft, we must be prepared to contribute to the NRF in 2018 with up to 200 active troops, i.e. the infantry company and its support subunit, special forces team and staff officers, which form a tactical group of the company. From funding so much that the deployment of the Defence Forces during the ready period, or the next year of the NRF, to a military operation, we do not know when it will take place, we will not be able to predict exactly. The costs depend on the format, region, intensity and duration of the operation, so the Government of the Republic will solve the issue of the potential source of additional costs. Now I am talking about the procedural decisions of the National Defence Committee. At its meeting on 13 November (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft under discussion and appoint me rapporteur for the committee. In addition, the Commission (consensus) decided that the deadline for the submission of amendments would include: December 5th, 5:15 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U214	Questions to Ants Laaneots. No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. I'll close the negotiations. The deadline for amendments is 5 December at 5.15 p.m. First reading of Bill 542 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U215	Extension of the term for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic in the performance of the international military operation Inherent Resolve, 554 first reading. Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U216	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members! This is our second operation in Iraq, this is Inherent Resolve, where we are already participating in a six-member training team in the Danish contingent in the province of Anbar, which has just been asked about here. The main task of the entity is military training of Iraqi security forces. One senior officer and I are also part of a multinational military strategic team in Baghdad to advise Iraqi ministries and security forces. In the current situation, the terrorist group ISIL no longer controls any region or settlements in Iraq, nor does it have central control. However, it is quite clear that Iraq will remain a very high-risk region. Our fighters don't engage in combat, they're based in military bases, they're protected by special training units. Of course, our fighters are also equipped with personal protective equipment and weapons to protect themselves from danger if necessary. This operation shall be carried out at the request of the Government of Iraq. The Iraqi Government has made such a request to the UN, both the Secretary-General and the President of the UN Security Council. Estonia and the Iraqi Ministry of Foreign Affairs have also exchanged diplomatic notes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U217	Questions for the initiator of the draft. No, it's not. Thank you, George Luik! The Commission's rapporteur is Ants Laaneots. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U218	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the draft, we need to decide to continue the participation of up to ten Estonian Defence Forces in an international military operation against the US-led ISIS in Inherent Resolve in Iraq. The US-led operation was launched on 15 June 2014 and Estonia will participate in this mission on the basis of the decision of the current Riigikogu as of August 2016, when the six-member training team in the province of Anbar began its service in the Danish contingent. The main task is to train Iraqi security forces. Moreover, as the Minister has already said, since September 2016, one of the Estonian senior officers in Baghdad is serving on a multinational military-strategic team led by the USA, which advises the Iraqi ministries and security forces. The main headquarters and units of this operation are located in several countries: Bahrain, Cyprus, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Qatar, Turkey and Saudi Arabia. Estonian Defence Forces participate in this solely within the Iraqi borders and do not participate in activities taking place within the framework of Operation Inherent Resolve on Syrian territory. Given the priority of the fight against ISIS, Estonia is ready to contribute to the operation with a larger team if necessary and possible. The additional number of active troops to be contributed would remain within the limit set in the draft, i.e. ten. The ISIS, a terrorist organisation mainly operating in Syria and Iraq, poses a serious threat to global security, including European internal security, and it can be said that Estonia too. Similarly, the number of people in need of international protection in the Middle East region, and thus the emerging European refugee crisis, is significantly affected by the activities of the terrorist organisation. In the framework of the ISIS Coalition for Iraq, the agreement of the Iraqi leadership, consisting of two parts, is a legal basis: firstly, a letter from the Iraqi Permanent Representative to the UN to the UN Secretary-General on 25 June 2014 and, secondly, a letter from the Iraqi Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Chairman of the UN Security Council on 20 September 2014, inviting States to participate in the fight against ISIS. At the meeting on 13 November, representatives of the Ministry of Defence's administration, including Deputy Secretary-General of Defence Policy Kristjan Prikk, presented the draft decision of the Riigikogu and other draft mandates with the participation of the Defence Forces to the members of the committee. On 20 November, the National Defence Commission received an overview of the Defence Forces units in the mission areas. Procedural decisions. The National Defence Committee decided on its s. At the 13th November session (consensus), the Riigikogu proposed to the Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu, which is today's sitting, and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. The committee was appointed rapporteur, and the National Defence Committee decided (consensus) to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the draft amendments be submitted by 5 December at 5.15 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U219	Questions to Ants Laaneots. No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiations here either. First reading of Bill 544 is complete. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 5 December at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U220	The extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and in the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali, is the first reading of 546. Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U221	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We're talking about two missions, an extension of the deadline for their use. One is the European Union's training mission and the other is the United Nations peace-building mission. Mali is not a place unknown to the Estonian Defence Forces. We've had several operations there. In this case, first of all, it is about the European Union mission, to which we contribute with two training instructors, whose task is to provide military training, and two staff officers, who are responsible for participating in the planning and consultation process of the training provided by other countries to the Malian units. The second operation is the United Nations peacekeeping operation MINUSMA, to which we will contribute three staff officers next year. MINUSMA supports the stabilisation of the Malian region through a number of activities such as restoring state power in the country, supporting the implementation of the transitional period, political dialogue, supporting the electoral process, protecting UN delegations, organising and promoting human rights protection. With regard to both mandates, we are seeking a margin that is linked to the situation if, at the request of either the European Union or the United Nations, we need to somewhat increase our participation in one mission or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U222	Questions for the Minister. No, it's not. Thank you. The rapporteur of the Commission is Marianne Mikko, Member of the National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U223	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft under discussion concerns two missions, as we have heard from the Minister. According to point 1 of the draft, the time limit for the use of up to 10 active members of the Estonian Defence Forces in the European Union Training Mission in Mali is extended. Estonia shall contribute to the Mali mission with the training instructors of the Defence Forces, whose task is to provide military training to the Malian units. Staff officers involved in the planning and consultation process for the training of Malian units will also be involved. As a country of the European Union, it is important for Estonia to contribute to the implementation of the Union's common security and defence policy. The Mali mission is the most important mission of the European Union, with 23 Member States participating. According to point 2 of the draft, the participation of up to ten active members of the Estonian Defence Forces in the UN peacekeeping mission MINUSMA is extended in Mali. Next year, Estonia will contribute to MINUSMA with three operational staff officers. If necessary, the draft at issue will allow for an increase in the number of active troops. As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to peace in the crisis area. In addition, participation in UN missions enhances Estonia's visibility in the UN and is a prerequisite for Estonia's efforts to become a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council in the years 2020 to 2021. The draft includes a meeting of the National Defence Commission, including 20 November, to the Defence Forces General Staff, where the Commission received an overview from Brigadier General Martin Herem and other active troops of the situation in the international mission areas of the Estonian Defence Forces, including the situation in Mali, and the readiness to continue the aforementioned European Union and UN mission. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft with Kristjan Prik, Deputy Secretary of Defence Policy and other representatives of the Ministry's administration, including at its meeting on 13 November. The committee decided (consensus) to propose to the management board of the Riigikogu that the draft be included on the agenda of the Riigikogu for the first reading on 21 November, i.e. today's sitting. The rapporteur for the draft was appointed here. At the same time, the National Defence Committee (again by consensus) decided to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. In addition, the National Defence Committee (by consensus again) decided to set the deadline for the submission of draft amendments, including 5 December at a quarter a month, i.e. 5.15 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U224	Any questions for the National Defence Committee waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Marianne Mikko! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 546 is complete. Here too, the deadline for amendments is 5 December at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U225	The decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic to extend the term for the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan is the first reading of the draft 543. Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik, please, on behalf of the initiator of the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U226	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We are talking about extending the term of use of the Defence Forces on a training and counselling mission in Afghanistan. As you know, Estonia has long experience in fighting in Afghanistan. In this case, we are applying for a mandate for up to six active troops. For information, we're talking about a three-member demining team and a staff officer in a German-led North Afghanistan region of the Framework State. In November 2017, a staff officer was added to headquarters in Kabul. I would like to stress once again that this is a NATO operation, a training operation. There will also be another operation in Afghanistan, a battle mission led by the United States and, in principle, by the United States, which, of course, supports NATO's mission in one way or another, but is not directly involved. By participating in the operation, we contribute jointly and severally to other NATO countries, and it also promotes allied relations between Estonia. I would like to add to what I have said a number of times already, although it is not directly related to this request, namely NATO has approached its members with a desire to increase the number of participants who would strengthen the same training mission in Resolute Support. This mandate, which you are giving now, or do not give now, I hope that you will give, has nothing to do with the possible increase in our participation. This is what we are still debating in the Ministry of Defence and consulting with our allies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U227	Any questions for the Minister? Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U228	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. My question arose from what you said there were three deminers on this team. Do I remember correctly?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U230	Is there any way to predict how long this work will continue in Afghanistan, this demining work?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U231	It'll probably last forever. But in this case, it is indeed a training team, which actually means that our own are training demining teams in Afghanistan. The whole logic of this training mission is that the Afghan security forces take this whole thing entirely at some point and we could leave it completely. It would be the perfect final option, but it doesn't look like it right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U232	There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you. The rapporteur for the National Defence Committee is Marianne Mikko, Member of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U233	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft decision of the Riigikogu under discussion allows up to six active members of the Estonian Defence Forces to continue to contribute to the NATO Training and Counselling Mission Resolute Support Mission or RSM next year. It is, as the Minister said, training, counselling and support tasks. The Deminator's task is to train Afghan national security forces and to carry out security checks on vehicles entering the NATO unit base at their location. Estonia will contribute with its four-member demining team to the North Afghanistan region, under the leadership of the framework country Germany, and will continue to do so in 2018. In addition, one of the Staff Officers will take part in Kabul. The members of the committee were introduced by representatives of the Ministry of Defence's administration, including Deputy Secretary General of Defence Kristjan Prikk, to the draft decision of the Riigikogu and other draft mandates with the participation of the Defence Forces at the meeting on 13 November. The National Defence Commission was also briefed yesterday, 20 November at the Defence Forces General Staff, on Defence Forces units in mission areas and preparations for continuing in Afghanistan. Estonia has participated in RSM since 2015. Continuation of the mission and support for Afghan security forces will continue to be important. Due to the agreement between NATO and Afghanistan on the legal basis of the mission, Estonia fulfils the obligations arising from its alliance's membership in this NATO mission. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 13 November (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Management Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu, including today's sitting, and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. The rapporteur for the Commission was appointed here. The National Defence Committee also decided at this session (consensus) to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting the draft amendments be set at a quarter of a month, i.e. 17.15 a.m. on 5 December. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-21_U234	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiations here either. First reading of Bill 543 is complete. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 5 December at 5.15 p.m. The Tuesday session of the 9th working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu is closed. Closure of the sitting at 1.40 p.m.
