ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. Honourable guests! We will begin the 15th working week Thursday session of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and enquiries. Martin Helme, please! But before Valdo Randpere's procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U2	Indeed, I have a procedural question. I have a procedural question about yesterday's day of sitting. To my horror, I discovered that the Riigikogu verbatim was being forged. I wanted to ask why this is being done, whether it is a conscious action and what its purpose is. Yesterday, in Question Time, Jüri Ratas, answering Urmas Kruus' question about alcohol policy, said that the first, most important and the aim of the current government's alcohol policy is to improve access to alcohol in different age groups. Improve the availability of alcohol in different age groups. In the Steinogram, this sentence has become such that the aim is to reduce the availability of alcohol in different age groups. If anyone doubts now that I haven't gone crazy, I'll say that youTube has this video upstairs, where Jüri Ratas says exactly that to fix it. You can watch. YouTube video hasn't been changed yet. But my question is whether our verbatim charts are some kind of fancy protocol and we paint sun boys for future generations from our prime ministers, or whether we should genuinely reflect what is happening in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Whose initiative is this? Does the Prime Minister call later and say that the bullets went a little wrong, or do we call from his office, or are our people here so busy, or are the middle party members in the verbatim department working?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U3	I admit this is a somewhat unexpected situation, but if you make a motion, I assure you that the people in our respective department will examine it and also check the material in YouTube. It's a relatively heavy accusation and a suspicion that someone is forgery. You have to prove it. Let's start with you guys making a motion, and then it'll be reviewed. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U4	Why don't we start by saying I've already made my proposal? No form has been defined for such a motion anywhere, and we have zero bureaucracy. I can also say here for a new verbatim if it is not forged now! The response of Jüri Ratas, forged in the verbatim record, will begin at the 32nd second of the 44th minute of the Youtube recording. I consider my motion to be done, and I hope that the competent bodies will take care of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U5	Thanks for the tip. As has sometimes been said, the competent bodies deal with this. Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U6	I just didn't know it was coming up right now. Yes, the fact that the board is embellishing the texts has become endemic. It's not a coincidence. In most cases, it is about softening unpleasant questions and broadening the answers. It's systematic. I would like to point out that three or four years ago, there was such a time in this house that everyone who had spoken got the text printed the next day in order to sign it, plus the materials on this text. Why was it eradicated? Is there really a reason why the board would have the opportunity to adjust historical material to politically correct and self-appropriate?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U7	Mr Gräzin, do you really think that the governing board of the Riigikogu is forgery of documents and verbatim? I ask, even though we have a 17-hour working day behind us, to be careful in our expressions. As far as the verbatim records are concerned, the verbatim records include what is said and, if there are protests, they will be reviewed. But the basis must be a motion. Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U8	There you go! That's the way it is, it's oral! I haven't used the word 'fake'. That's how it works! I'll say one sentence, then you say 'fake', and your sentence goes into the verbatim, mine doesn't go. I never said he was. The only fact that is known is that what we are talking about here and what is written on paper does not often coincide. This is just an interesting fact that confirms Valdo's observation. Specific proposal: paper on the table and performer will sign the next day. Who's it bothered?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U9	We are looking forward to discussing a key national issue. Several guests, experts, have come to the Riigikogu. I hope that we will resolve these issues as we have proposed here. These documents will be reviewed. Once again, it is a very serious accusation that no one I want to say this word is dealing with the rinks that can be read in just 34 years' time. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U10	It is important to add that, according to Western cultural practice, obvious errors in print and failed sentence structures are corrected. This was also pointed out by Igor Gräzin, who said that it is customary to edit verbatim charts. There are even rules according to which official documents that are published will not be valid from the moment of publication, but the day after no corrections have been submitted. It's extremely normal and normal. Let me remind you that no one really thought that the Prime Minister deliberately made such a statement. Obvious language errors will be corrected. It is an old rule, parliamentary practice, we have heard it, and we should know it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U11	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U12	Five years ago, I listened to a reformer standing there in the courtroom. His speech was three times confused with ma- and da-infinitives. I took out the verbogram after because it seemed like a pretty funny thing, and I found out that everything was okay there. Then I got an explanation that there is a black verbatim and a pure verbatim. The black verbogram is recorded on the tape exactly as it was said in the hall, but any performer who has lost a number or grammatical form is able to correct clear speech errors. I don't know, I haven't seen it in a while. Is it the same process now that there's a black and clean verbatim, or what?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U13	You described events in that order, just as this process is happening now. That's what Councilman Siret Neeve told me. Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U14	I understand that the Reform Party is now discovering that life is something else, it is not what it seemed to them over the last ten years. Can we make this clear to them? Maybe we could give Mr. Randper a tour of the house, take him to the verbatim department, show him what people are doing, so he doesn't look for anything, I don't know, a black hand where there's actually a simple working process?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U15	Everything is possible, but the signal of a member of the Riigikogu, in whatever form it is presented, is, in the opinion of the Riigikogu Board, a serious signal. We will meet today at 4:30 and we will certainly discuss the problem that Valdo Randpere and Igor Gräzin have raised. Can we start now? Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U16	Dear Deputy Speaker! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, to whom I have not yet said hello, I will also say good morning to you. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, I am handing over a draft law to amend the Local Government Council Election Act, which essentially consists of only two minor changes. We want to delete § 5 (2), that is the paragraph that extends the right to vote to non-citizens. There are municipalities in Estonia where, as a result of the election of the local government, decisions on the exercise of public authority are taken by people, more than half of whom are not Estonian citizens. We find that this time there is no motivation for integration into Estonia. We also point out that a large proportion of these people are either Russian citizens or non-nationals, and in elections to the Russian Federation in Estonia, a huge percentage of these people are voting in favour of the Putin regime. At the same time, these people participate indirectly in the election of the President of Estonia, as local government councils also choose voters. We think this system is bad. Such a system is very rare, in most countries there is no such system, and we want to change it. I would also like to point out that this amendment would not change the electoral order this autumn, but would only come into force the next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U17	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U18	Honorable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Welcome, respectable guests! On behalf of six members of the Free Party Group, it is my honour and pleasure to present an inquiry to the Prime Minister on the subject of the protection of the Estonian population and its governance. The subject is clearly very important. In Estonia too much is expected to operate in the event of crises, but in a low population and sparsely populated country, it is a bit short-sighted and, in our opinion, even a dangerous way of thinking. Governance in this area must take place at Prime Minister level, but it must also be filled with content. Unfortunately, until now, it is not quite clear what the Prime Minister must do exactly in this area, what powers he needs to do, what objectives he must set in developing national defence, including the system of population protection, and how population protection is reflected in the tasks of local government, cooperation between public authorities and the education system. We have seven detailed questions on this issue, which we hope to find good answers to. On behalf of the Free Party Group, I also have one brief draft decision of the Riigikogu on the amendment of the composition of the Special Committee against Corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U19	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry. We process them in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. There are 60 members of the Riigikogu and 41 are absent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U20	Our only item on the agenda today is the debate on the key national issue 'State and trends in vocational education' proposed by the Committee on Culture. First of all, let me introduce the procedure for the discussion that follows from § 153 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures. First of all, the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Aadu Must, will present a presentation lasting up to 15 minutes. The Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps, whom we warmly welcome at the Riigikogu session, will then present a presentation lasting up to 15 minutes. The third is the presentation by Enn Veskimägi, Chairman of the Board of AS Standard, with a presentation lasting up to 15 minutes, after which Tarmo Loodus, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Association for the Promotion of Vocational Training, will perform, whose presentation will also last up to 15 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two oral questions to the rapporteurs. The round of questions and answers will last 20 minutes for all rapporteurs. After the presentations and questions have been answered, we open negotiations where members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups can take the floor. The Committee on Culture has proposed that the representatives of the political groups take the floor first. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Aadu Musta, Chairman of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U21	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister! Dear VET enthusiasts! The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu is on this semester, if you will allow me, I will use the university language to discuss vocational education problems at my five regular meetings. Vocational education problems have also been the subject of a number of discussions on a number of related topics, for example, we discussed them in addressing the issues of children with special educational needs. In addition to having had a series of meetings and discussions, we have made a couple of acquaintances or study visits, one of which we even did in the Czech Republic, where we looked at what they had in a different way, worse or better. The same topic was discussed at the regular meeting of the Baltic Assembly, where Krista Aru, a member of the Committee on Culture, led this block. So there is a comparison of the Baltic space. In particular, for the importance of this topic as a national issue in the large hall of the Riigikogu, I owe thanks to meetings with vocational education people, especially my colleagues Tanel Linnus, Tarmo Loodus, Andrus Mood and others. All the members of the Commission worked very hard to address this issue. I am pleased to say that vocational education is one of those issues where there is no problem, either one, another, third or fourth party, or the group thinks one, the other or the third. Throughout the debate, this was a 'national attitude' and a matter of national importance. We all know the role of vocational education in society quite well, at least in theory. We have declared that vocational education is a guarantee of the sustainability of society and, in particular, of the economy, of our country's economy. If there is no vocational education, talk about a new level of production or anything, but it remains only for air travel, that is not serious. What about the sustainability of vocational education and training itself? This is a much more complicated problem. On several occasions, members of the Riigikogu have talked about how it seems that everything is in very good shape when looking at documents and looking at papers. This is, of course, the case with vocational education. Even to the OECD, Estonian vocational education and training is very clear, has created a good impression and it is found that the whole system is well linked to employers' expectations and needs. But when you start looking at the way things are in life, it turns out that this picture, just like in many areas, is somewhat different. The Commission did not set itself its objective - it is important to say this - not to start looking for the right to be convicted, cornered or humiliated. From the very beginning of the Commission's methodology, it was also based on previous knowledge that people in vocational education work well and people in VET support structures work well. You know, if somebody doesn't work well, the director's gonna set things right. This is not the responsibility of the legislator. It is up to us to see if there are places where the law gets in the way of time, the law interferes, and the legislator should do something better. Turns out there's a lot of problems like this. First of all, the truth of the abstinence: vocational education is part of our comprehensive education system and we need to look at the acquisition of education, including vocational education, not as a one-time study on the human lifeline, but also as a means of continuing education and retraining. This is particularly important in vocational education, by the way. The VET system has been able to assess these necessary niches in a high-quality manner. At the same time, it is felt in Estonia that this system is not so comprehensive and harmonious every time. There are a number of barriers that the parties will tell you more about later. If we compare our data with European data, for example, it turns out that the scale of vocational education is much more modest in Estonia than anywhere else. There's a lot of problems here. It all begins with the prestige of vocational education: it turns out that since the old grey days, we have not been very popular with vocational education. Sometimes it has been said that we should base ourselves on the European average and push for it. It's not like that. You know, there's a lot of different problems. The country sometimes needs more specialists in one field or another, but this is not a direct issue today. However, it can be seen that there is competition between school types. When we have talked to people in vocational education about how to encourage the choice of vocational education and how to introduce our opportunities, for example, in general education schools, we have seen the first spike coming up here. I quote one head of school: 'Many schools allow us to enter. " It turns out that in general education schools there are already few students, and now, oh, God, they still want to take the few. A number of comprehensive school teachers consider that general education and upper secondary school are still better than vocational schools because they themselves have not attended vocational schools. I think the teachers are coming from somewhere else. The next serious problem we were told about is something that we actually meet in Estonia at every step of the way. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to disparage myself or others, but there is one symptom that strongly characterises our society. For many years now, at least in the last ten years, the mentality of Estonia has been the form of this sporty gesture that I have felt very strongly. If it's up to you to show or be, at least you have to look good. You know how much that attitude is! When speaking to people in vocational education, one of the things that seems to be of interest to Parliament is that many things cannot be done. Why can't you do that? But that's why we can't have the rules, either the accounting rules or some rules. The law says the same thing, but it is not possible to comply with the law. Have you noticed that during the discussion of several problems in the Riigikogu, people in the Riigikogu have also said that do not come out naive, accounting rules do not allow this or another thing to be done? For heaven's sake, the legislator should know that it is not the accountant who makes the law, but the legislator also shapes accounting and all other rules. By the way, there is another trend that we encountered when analysing vocational education. Sometimes the barrier is that the computer program doesn't allow it. The computer program is the one who says that life has to go in one way or another. Listen, in the information society, life should dictate to IT specialists how a computer must work, not a computer should dictate how life or, for example, vocational training must run. I'm about to get to the practical problems of vocational schools. Pretty strange barriers separate vocational education and future employers. I'm not going too deep on this subject, but I'm at least trying to arouse curiosity in the audience and piss you off so you can ask about it. Sometimes it has been said that the relationship between vocational schools and employers is very harmonious, but at the same time it is a stone to our cabbage garden We even heard the assistant might be punished. We were told that, dear legislators, help the helper to help him. It should not be the case that if someone brings him, for example, to a vocational school where he is being raised, to a load of stones or wood, then it turns out that, oh-oh-oh, but now he has to pay these, these, these, these and these taxes. We have talked a lot about stimulating the sponsorship of the education system. Turns out the legislator has something else to do here. Of course, the Ministry has explained to us what problems are with curricula, and vocational schools themselves have done exactly the same. It has to be said that, compared to other countries, we do not have the cutting edge of vocational education curricula in this sense, so that they can take us to tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. We commend our e-state and information technology, but it turns out that in many countries the usual information technology has been brought much closer to a skilled worker than we do. However, the most serious problem that I can still mention (other speakers are deeply and seriously speaking out on these issues) seems to be the problem of teachers. We have spoken here in the Riigikogu about teachers' salaries, but we now come to the point that the problem of teachers in vocational education is perhaps even more acute than in primary schools, because it is not possible to pay competitive salaries to vocational teachers who possess the skills of their industry or their sector. If a master who is able to teach skilled workers works in production, he will receive a significantly higher salary if he can be paid in vocational education. What does that mean? Do we employ only those who have not done their job? We looked at the reports. Tallinn University reports that it prepares teachers at all levels of the vocational training institution. I looked at the data of the University of Tartu, just like that, everything on paper is very beautiful. I saw that the University of Tartu opens even 20 study places for vocational teachers every year. So far, 81 students have graduated, and they say someone's gotten to school. They've found it! Not everyone gets to school. Let me mention another aspect that others may not then have to make a direct point. Do you know that all schools are educational establishments and they are also educational establishments? Have you heard? In vocational schools, we were told as a half-secret that, even though the rules do not allow it, something called a class manager or group supervisor or whatever it takes has been introduced. The point is, this person doesn't teach lessons, he does deal with students. In vocational school, this is absolutely necessary. We were very surprised when we were told about this as almost a private initiative and something that was introduced around the corner, which the law does not explicitly prohibit, but it is not and still does not favour. I stress: when young people who have graduated from vocational education have also been educated to eat with a knife and a fork (sorry I say so vulgarly!) And boys, surprise-surprise! One of the aspects of making a tie is the prestige of vocational education. If we don't see this point of upbringing, don't predict it and write it down, then these schools will be of much less use than society expects. Now the issue of study and internship bases. I'm sure we'll talk about that later. At some point in time, we had the enthusiasm for the European average. We also found that we were about to leave for a vocational school half of those graduating from primary school, and that a lot of money was put into concrete in their time, and that buildings were also built that are now no longer needed. The money was well spent. It has now become apparent that a large part of the machines purchased for this money have become obsolete, and when new machines need to be trained, not by yesterday's machines, but by tomorrow's machines, this is sometimes a dream. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been able to mention to you half the points discussed by the Committee on Culture. It's okay, because the next waitresses are the people of life, and they're gonna end it all. For my part, I would like to say that our national wealth is the abilities and skills of our children. If we do not develop them, we will bomb Estonia's sustainability. Today's good level has not been achieved by us, often by our fathers and grandfathers. Let us be worthy of them! Let us care about vocational education so that this, in turn, can ensure the sustainability of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U22	Ladies and gentlemen, Before opening a round of questions of 20 minutes, I would add that the Committee on Culture has proposed, if necessary, to extend today's sitting until 2:00, but we will initially work until 1:00 a.m. and we will work on extending the session when we see that it is necessary. So many more that there are four rapporteurs today, but every member of the Riigikogu can only ask two oral questions, so you will have a choice. But let's be honest, here in this Chamber, the choice is the basis of everything. The first question is put by Valeri Korb. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U23	Thank you. Dear Mr. Black! The practice of Ida-Virumaa shows that one of the three vocational education centres has now been formed. I think it's such a peculiar globalization. Do you think this process is beneficial for vocational education or is what is happening in Ida-Virumaa just the trend of the present time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U24	In the Commission, we have discussed quite thoroughly which vocational education schemes, models and ideals exist in different countries. It turns out that a good German tradition tends to dominate in the European Union: we all push into exactly one framework of professional standards, and we do curricula according to them, everything should be highly standardised and in the same way. The opposite is, for example, English tradition. They have Brexit, they're leaving the alliance, right, but they say every school has its own sign, and if the Longwood School has given a diploma, everyone knows that, oh, shit, it's a good school, so they're not gonna watch how many hours or what somebody's been studying there. So there's a multiplicity of options, and every school has its own face. Obviously, however, we have been able to be so flexible in Estonia that we do not have to do everything according to one rule. The Vocational Education Centre model has justified itself very well in many areas of Estonia. I think the Ministry is saying the same thing, but if the specifics on the ground still require that we do this differently, that it is possible and better, then let us be flexible. That's probably the way it would be. On the other hand, I cannot tell you the very final result either, because it is not our aim to set standards here today. However, the Committee on Culture intends to achieve that the reform of vocational education as an organic part of the Estonian education system should be discussed in this Chamber. The Committee on Culture, as we have a tradition, sends the Ministry a carefully thought-out letter on vocational education to start looking together at how to bring in the law. In order to answer a specific question, I have no competence, I call on you to think along and take the initiative where it is necessary and possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U25	Ivar Padar.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U26	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am an alumni of Võru Industrial Engineering since 1984. I'm probably one of the few people with vocational training here. You have already begun my question. I went to the last VET fair in Tallinn. It turned out that the tone problem was, as usual, a lack of students. You spoke for a moment about the money put in the concrete and its proportion. Have you discussed this more widely in your committee? In the last thirteen or fifteen years, a lot has been built and more places have been made. How is this general picture now across Estonia, how many of these places and potential students do we have? How big are these scissors now? How can we appreciate these scissors?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U27	Thank you for a very good question. A number of good answers had already been said on this issue. The first answer was that if today's talk is, like vocational education, and especially its fifth degree would in some sense be a dead end, that there would not be a university from there, then Ivari Padar's example proves that you can go to university, you can go in all directions if you have the strength and perseverance. The student problem is serious. Apparently, one of the hot spots in the Estonian education system is that it is fought to get all the students. I'm a big fan of vocational education myself. It turns out that the university also has vocational education, not only does it matter about knowledge but also about skills. At all, in Estonia it is said that we have a lot of knowledge, but sometimes few skills. It's the same in college. I teach in a field where you have to have skills, you have to know how to do something. Nevertheless, at times there have been people at university who could have been used even by the Czechs to use the term "excellent professionalist" who have really loose hands and a loose technical mind, but someone has dragged him to a university where he does not feel well. Now, whether or not vocational education suffers from a shortage of students. Tarmo Nature will tell you more about it later. There are problems, of course. At the same time, I stress that vocational education and training itself has met the needs of society. In vocational education, continuing education and retraining have been introduced into curricula or schools, and this is the place where much of what we have always dreamed of is being dealt with, namely lifelong learning. Sometimes people say that, oh-oh-oh, maybe it's for hobby training, some gardening or God knows what specialties they're studying for themselves, but not for society. No, so-called hobby training is also essential if people later use it to work for themselves. There is certainly a need to work on how vocational education can be more helpful than it has been before. Let me give you just one example. I must say that this is not the Commission's position, but my personal impression, which has arisen as a result of all these discussions. We are currently experiencing fragmentation, and vocational education and training is not being fully exploited. For example, see how the unemployment fund organises training. The example is old, fortunately it does not come from this day, but consider it a belleristic example. It was found that the unemployed must be taught ikebana and flamenco dance, then suddenly they find a place on the labour market. You know, these people should still be trained and retrained on the basis of the abilities and opportunities of our vocational training institutions. In this sense, there is room for growth in vocational education, but we need to talk about the Estonian education system, but also about vocational training only in view of the Estonian education system as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U28	Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U29	Thank you. Honourable waitress! We have seen that for years, vocational education has been tightened up somehow. It was a very painful process, by the way, closing the Põltsamaa trade school. We've been discussing this in this room and arguing about it. After all, there were new production buildings built there, there were children, there was a will, but yet these doors have now closed. So what are we supposed to do, or what can we do to stop this process? The teachers up here in the balcony told me to give me money, money, money. The Cultural Commission doesn't share the money. But how can we still contribute to this process in order to improve the situation during our reign?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U30	Firstly, I really express the view of the whole Committee on Culture that more investment in education is needed to ensure Estonia's sustainability. Education is the most solid investment for sustainability and it needs to be cared for more. I have already mentioned that we have sometimes been more inclined towards concrete or, say, we see production without its foundation, because education must also be the foundation of production. So the Riigikogu must certainly pay more attention, however, so that our young people's abilities can be developed as much as possible. That is not the case at the moment. On the other hand, when we discussed this matter with the people of vocational training institutions in the Commission, it became clear that, of course, no more fine-tuning is needed, that, oh, we are setting up a school a little either way or a little bit, but we need a reform of vocational education, which must involve the various parts of society. There is a need for local authorities to have a say. There is a need for employers' umbrella organisations to make meaningful contact with vocational education. Sometimes we see that there is very good cooperation: on one side there is a delegated bureaucrat who does not know the subject, but who cooperates, and on the other side he has the same delegated bureaucrat, and that is how they deal with it. At times, there is simply a lack of wisdom in planning curricula, so that society as a whole has come along, and I would like to emphasise once again the different actors involved. Sometimes it seems that in some countries this area is much more successful due to the greater care of the country. Imagine the specialists in a central European country warned us not to go too far with the use of sponsors. We said, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, They replied that it was too much to help. Against us, that wait-wait-wait, we have no danger. Finally, it turned out that they had had had such a tone of illustration, that they came to the aid of a friendly neighboring dairy machine company, and all the agricultural schools were filled with milking machines. Let's say this country was Hungary. Since then, it says that only children can use Austrian milking machines; there is nothing else there. They warned us not to sell ourselves like this. We don't have that danger because somehow no one wants us to decorate all the schools to find a market for ourselves. If someone like this showed up, of course, we have been warned to take the offer from at least two countries at once. But that's it. So it is really a public attention and, in particular, the attention of Parliament, which could make this matter more prestigious and, essentially, take it forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U31	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U32	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President, thank you very much. Vocational education is a very, very important issue and I am pleased that it has been taken up. The need for different occupations and skills will change over time. Did the Commission also look at how curricula and specialties in vocational education and training meet the needs of society and how they change with changes in society and needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U33	Thank you. That is indeed a very good question. Fortunately, I can tell you that this was one of our main topics. We have discussed how to set professional standards, how they should be translated into curricula and how there will be continuous renewal. There are a number of technical obstacles. In Tarmo Nature's report, I think there's a whole section on it, he's talking about it. So it's polite for me to pull back a little bit and not get too thorough. Of course there are obstacles. Once again, at times, everything is fine on paper, the system has been designed. Sometimes, for example, research is based on some kind of research. So you're going to investigate what this research is, it turns out it's a survey. And who's been questioned? In order to create tomorrow's model, the players from yesterday have been questioned. You know, that happens in Estonia sometimes. The Estonian Radio was so good that it asked what music people wanted to listen to and then announced that they wanted to listen to the music played in the Estonian Radio. People had not listened to other radio stations. Our polls are, in some cases, that they reveal not where to go, but what I already know and what pieces I've learned. So there's a problem. But both the Ministry and the VET institutions themselves have a number of proposals on how to make this system more flexible. That's point 1. Point 2, how to involve more parties and put someone in charge? At the moment, it is sometimes the case that there are a great deal of helpers, even money is paid a lot. One helps, the other helps, the third helps. When you put these reports together, it turns out that the picture is relatively similar, the same thing is reported. The Ministry intends to improve the system, and that is correct. Someone used the name OSKA in the hall. I didn't notice who said that. We just saw that some of the links seem to be formal. The last time we saw, for example, what this OSKA system is doing. We were critical that the reports were on top-of-the-range chalk paper, but yet they are the closest to the actual employer and have indeed looked at the modern level of updating curricula. However, I would like to stress one thing: it is not possible to develop a curriculum with the help of teachers or schools' own resources. There is still a need for a very powerful brain trust here; there is also a need to learn from the experience of all other countries. The aim should not be to determine which system used so far is best, but, as was the point of the question, to aim for how to go to tomorrow and the day after tomorrow and not to follow others, but to be half a step ahead of others.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U34	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Thank you so much for your presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U35	Thank you. Power!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U36	The next presentation will be made by the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U37	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Chairman of the Cultural Commission! Members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! First of all, let me thank you, the honourable Committee on Culture and the Riigikogu, that you have decided to talk about vocational education as a matter of national importance. It has to be said that vocational education often falls under the shadow of major public discussions in general education and higher education, and the greater pleasure it is here today, despite the long hours of the night, to talk about vocational education. Perhaps today we also dare to take such a conclusion that attitudes and opinions, as if one education were more important or more important than the other, one skill worth more than the other, will change. Perhaps these times will begin to pass, and we are ready to appreciate education and skills in the broadest sense. Everything has its place and importance. Indeed, there have been major changes in vocational schools and vocational education, both in content and in structure. Let me go back to 1997. At the time, there were 90 educational institutions in Estonia that allowed vocational education, more than half of which were owned by the state. There were 31,300 students. Today, the number of vocational schools has fallen to 33 and 26 of these are public education institutions. In addition to vocational schools, we also have some universities of applied sciences that teach on the basis of vocational training curricula. In total, there are 25000 students in vocational education and the number of students has not changed significantly in the last few years. The school network is therefore very paced in order. At the same time, we must recognise that the share of basic school pupils in vocational education and training institutions has not increased over the years. Currently, 26% of basic school students and 10% of upper secondary school graduates decide to continue their studies in vocational schools immediately after graduation. Young people's learning choices after primary school, especially in larger cities, have been very persistent in Estonia and no change in the favour of vocational education has actually been achieved over these years. I believe that there is a need to introduce more learning opportunities related to working life in comprehensive school, to provide learners with opportunities to get to know vocational schools and to provide more information on the fact that high-quality secondary vocational education provides a successful basis for further learning in universities and universities of applied sciences. However, the biggest concern in the country is, in fact, the 3% of students who, after comprehensive school, do not continue their studies in vocational schools or anywhere else. The reasons may be different. Sometimes they are not able to make prudent choices and interrupt their semi-randomly chosen specialty studies during the first semester. It is these students that we want to support more now, with the next steps in the near future. To this end, we need to consider and introduce a year of vocational orientation, which will provide an opportunity to develop students' general competences and introduce them to a wide range of professional choices. This is how we start in Rakvere from September, but it will certainly move on to other vocational schools. I believe that this year will give many young people more confidence in deciding what to do in the future. While it is often argued that the problem of vocational education is a reputation, we can now say, on the basis of both international and national studies, that it is not really the case. The problem is no longer the reputation of a vocational school or the opinion that vocational schools are poor or provide poor education. People don't think that anymore. In fact, we have seen in a very short time that vocational schools have developed a good reputation. For example, if we analyse the interest and trust of adult learners in vocational training, more than 50% of adult people believe that vocational education systems are going to be very good. Therefore, it is no longer a question of reputation. Rather, our society is rooted in the notion that no final decisions on the future will be made at the age of 16 and there is no direct need. It's easier to push them away when they're a little bit more mature. Our educational arrangements do not force young people to make choices very early. So what's the solution? Would the solution be to set a threshold for entering upper secondary schools or to set a limited number of school places in upper secondary schools, similar to a public training order in vocational education? In any case, something like this is expected, because it is for this reason that it was desired that upper secondary school education and vocational training be held by one owner. I believe that we should discuss these issues much more seriously here in the Riigikogu. The problem is also with upper secondary school graduates. In the last six years, there has been a significant increase in the number of students who are not continuing their studies in either vocational or higher education. These students complete a general upper secondary school and enter the labour market without any special or vocational training. Moreover, the decision to acquire a professional education is not taken later. We still have a large number of people in society who have not obtained any full professional qualifications in their lives, either through higher education or through vocational training. Therefore, we should not only look at how many and how young people make their educational choices when they are 16 years old, but also at how and if they reach choices and results after general education. One way to create an interest in professional education is through closer cooperation between general and vocational education and training systems. For example, we develop significantly more joint curricula and encourage cooperation between schools to provide practical electives in vocational schools for both middle school and upper secondary school graduates or those who wish to study comprehensive subjects in upper secondary schools. Of course, we know that many vocational schools do, but if this is our national priority, we can plan it more broadly and financially. We have cleaned up most of our vocational training centres and made them beautiful. There's a few small exceptions here and there, and there's a few things I could use a little adjustment. I really recommend that all parents and employers find the nearest vocational school, knock on its door and see what technologies and machines are used in today's school. We have contributed 190 million euros to schools and laboratories over the last 10 years, with the support of the state of Estonia and the European Union. At the same time, technology is ageing faster than ever, and it will be very difficult for the Estonian state to make such an investment in the coming years. This requires us to make specific decisions on where and what technology to build up training places to be used by vocational schools in different regions, but why not by entrepreneurs and higher education institutions. The biggest challenge now is to maintain the existing level. The technologies and equipment that we have acquired since 2004 are unfortunately beginning to be amortised and ageing, and if we want to increase the quality of the workforce in order to be internationally competitive as a country, we must continue to invest in equipment parks and technologies in vocational training institutions. This is where we work with entrepreneurs. Machinery alone, however, is not enough. In fact, the teacher ensures that the student is good at school so that he or she would like to study and be constantly challenged to develop his or her abilities. Unfortunately, the average age of the faculty continues to grow, and it worries us all. Teachers' salaries are rising and the payroll is increasing, as in general education in vocational education, working conditions are certainly improving and further training is available to everyone. This should encourage young people to become teachers in the future, whether in primary school, vocational school, or university. However, bringing people with professional excellence and entrepreneurial experience to school is expensive. And if we want teachers in our vocational schools to be both good teachers and excellent professionals, masters, this will inevitably require additional resources compared to the existing ones. We consider it very important to provide information to young people and older people about today's schools, learning opportunities and future prospects. Virtual tours of vocational training institutions are increasingly being completed. I suggest you look at some of them, very exciting material. Very well done indeed! It is not the task of trackers and other counsellors to direct young people to study a specific field of study in the school, but to show what today's and future specialties are, what opportunities are there to shape their studies. The Chairman of the Cultural Commission has already mentioned the forecasting system OSKA, which was launched two years ago to forecast Estonia's labour needs. OSKA analyses the need for a skilled workforce for the development of the Estonian economy, which means that it helps to teach and learn the right things. In three or four years' time, we should have analysed all economic areas. To date, the needs of eight areas have been thoroughly reviewed. In OSKA, we see that we have many new professions and existing professions and work environments have been substantially renewed. All sectors are becoming more complex and knowledge-intensive. Let me give you a few examples. For the Estonian economy, IT specialists are needed to help the sector as well as other areas in a smarter way. There is an increasing need for managers of various complex machines in the forestry and timber industries, mechatronics, maintenance technicians of smart machines, etc., who have completed vocational training, are very welcome to work in the metal and machinery industries. In addition to our professional skills, we increasingly value teamwork skills, communication skills, problem-solving skills, decision-making courage, creativity. The growing need for such general skills is underlined by all employers and Oska reports. It is certain that all occupations will change; everyone will need to learn skills. Young graduates are few, and if we are to keep the economy running, we need to take into account the need to provide modern and flexible education for adults as well. In vocational education, nearly half of the students are adults. At the recent Grand Event of the Young Master mentioned here, nearly 400 young people in 31 specialties tested themselves. When we look at the Rocket 69 finals, there, indeed, basic school and vocational school students quite equally measured each other. If we look at the Public Education World, here too, it can be said that graduates of our schools who have completed different curricula have nothing to be ashamed of about employment and income. Recent statistics from Statistics Estonia show that VET employment is currently higher than those with higher education. Indeed, the relationship is 82% and 75.5%, so again there is something that society has perhaps been little talked about so far. Thus, people who have completed vocational education and training are currently very much in demand on the labour market. Perhaps the most important message expected from the Minister is how and to what extent next year we will be able to support the renewal of the model of funding for vocational schools, which has been prepared for many years. When the calculations are summarised, the minimum required next year is to support vocational schools as well as general education schools with support specialists. This requires EUR 3.25 million in the budget, and I have set myself the objective of ensuring it. The financing model as a whole also means that we must support the efforts of schools to achieve good educational outcomes and ensure proper basic funding, which is not dependent solely on one year's admission, but really provides the school with stable funding, despite the fluctuations in the number of graduates and changes in the labour market. Employers have played a very important role in shaping both the reputation and the future of vocational education. When two pages of a comprehensive overview of cooperation with employers are summarised briefly, I can say that our very personal and close relationship with employers, both through the Confederation of Employers and through the Chamber of Commerce, has been highlighted not only by our own vocational schools but also by our international partners who have said that there is not such a close and constructive link between vocational education and employers in other European countries, unfortunately. So thank you very much for your cooperation. And, as I said, in view of the rapid ageing of technology, there will be more and more areas where we will have to work even more constructively with employers in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U38	The Laine Randjärv opens the round of questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U39	Thank you, good manager. Good Mailis, good health first for you and your family! Welcome back! My question is, in the context of vocational education, perhaps from an unconventional area. For example, a school called Eller and Ots is also a vocational education institution, but at the same time such softer specialties are rarely spoken of in relation to vocational education. When the welder completes the vocational education center, he becomes a welder and goes to work. When the choir leader finishes Eller's school, he's not getting an invitation right now. Would the Ministry of Education and Research also take a look at the so-called softer areas of vocational education? Today there is little pedagogy, but the reality is that even after Eller or Ots graduated, they go to music schools as teachers. The problem is they don't have an invitation. How does the Ministry of Education feel about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U40	Good question. How the Ministry of Education feels about this still has to think about it. I owe you an answer right now. But personally, when it comes to teaching, we generally do not accept teachers without higher education. Moreover, in the case of educators, we expect qualifications. This is a problem in vocational schools in general, not just in music schools. If it's a very good master, we still expect him to undergo a pedagogical training. These requirements have sometimes been quite difficult to adapt to vocational schools, as there are certain nuances. We have given the opportunity to take account of previous work experience and to soften these things, but in general, this has been a very big problem for years. Do we dare admit that you're going to graduate from Eller's school or Ots' school and then go to another school? From the point of view of the system, we really want all teachers to come to work through the music academy. Now, the invitation. Everything depends on the requirements of the professional examinations. I believe that the following speakers will be able to speak about them. We actually have problems with our professional examinations in vocational schools. On the other hand, we are quite proud of our professional exams; on the other hand, the relationship between professional examinations and the curriculum has created a situation where we are approaching qualifications very narrowly. We intend to examine this issue in the Ministry anyway. I can answer that. that the whole relationship between professional examinations and vocational schools has changed quite quickly in recent years. This has created a pretty complicated relationship between schools and the ministry, which is why we must definitely analyse the situation. Here, as I said, there are sometimes too narrow requirements, the other way around we want young people to have more extensive preparation. I can say that we will certainly be discussing these issues, also in the case of these schools. However, if we ask whether, in addition to giving an invitation at this level, we will allow their graduates to actually teach as educators, it is likely not. Interestingly, however, in their time, these schools became vocational schools as a result of a very long-term dispute. Then it was thought that this would bring them into the system, and they, in turn, felt like a foreign body next to the general education system. But yes, I have to admit that speaking of the positions of both schools, Tallinn and Tartu schools, they have not quite settled in the network of vocational schools. They still live their lives somehow. It can be said that health schools have also always lived their lives. They are universities of applied sciences that are not real universities and are not real vocational schools. They have always done well both in Tallinn and in Tartu, and they have done their business in support of each other. I believe that they have not been forgotten in any way, even though the musicians are always more visible. I know that the Director of the Tartu School has a series of plans and a whole package of topics that also require legal assistance. We will come to these issues in the Riigikogu anyway, because he is now the head of the school who would really like to do joint study programmes, and fortunately he is not the only one. Other vocational schools have also highlighted issues where legal problems have arisen. So we're gonna bring this up.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U41	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, welcome to the Riigikogu again and sincerely congratulations! I looked at the material of the VET Promotion Society here before, and I must say that this is a very clear, well structured and understandable document in the overall impression. I assume that you have already brought yourself up to date with this before Mr. Nature comes to present it to us. The list of changes that are clearly intended to be made through the law is also at the end. So let me ask you this: what are the elements that you will definitely want to contribute to? Maybe there's something you don't really agree with.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U43	Thank you. This is indeed a very good document. I can see that vocational schools have been awakened from such a sleepy state in the meantime. Thank you very much to the Riigikogu for this! Expectation and hope are great. What I certainly agree with is that schools want significantly greater autonomy and decision-making. For today's debate, they have also made it clear that they do not see the possibility of very rapid municipalisation. It's been a story here. It's maybe a little bit more recent than that. What I have already mentioned is the subject of professional examinations and how narrow or broad curricula are. It's really a subject. I can't say what we agree with or disagree with, but I'm sure there'll be the biggest dispute between the Ministry of Education and schools over the whole professional exam, about what form it's going to take. I also cannot appreciate how strongly the decision of previous governments to centralise all support services has been fixed. Schools have caused emotions and a lot of resentment because they don't control their own books. Since all IT and accounting networks are in the central boiler, I do not know how much it is possible to reverse this process. I don't know how to politically appreciate it right now. But I am not only familiar with other issues in general, but I very much support that schools can decide for themselves. The idea of base money is what we propose. If we can really implement this in two or three years, then vocational schools would have autonomy, just as universities would, and they would be able to take into account regional specificities and make their own decisions when dealing with local employers. That is something I very, very much support. But it all takes time, because as a national school system, they've been very heavily controlled so far. In order to get from there to self-determination, major changes are certainly needed both at school and in the ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U44	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U45	Honourable President! Honorable Minister, it's a pleasure to see you here! I think I've heard about the recommended ratio of 60:40 for decades, and as I have now heard, we're still awfully far from it. Is student placement still a problem for vocational training institutions themselves, or can the Ministry contribute in any way here? There is one thing that worries me. The current coalition has set as one of its principles the support of small secondary schools, small country high schools, if necessary with a lot of money to keep them alive. Despite all the respect for the good teachers and traditions of these schools, it seems to me that there may also be quite a lot of children who do not want to go to the profession. Don't you give opposite signals? On the one hand, you call it a vocational school, on the other hand, you say, "Ah, go back to sleep in that school." Please disprove my opinion!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U46	You can't deny it. Right now, I'm sure, as I said, we have such an extension of childhood. Whether it's in small schools or large schools, I don't dare generalise. We have also been quite ambitious in building state gymnasiums for square meters. Currently, the director of each state gymnasium is interested in keeping the figures as close as possible to him. If we take even the next speaker, then it has also been seen in Viljandi that the state gymnasium has not really increased receptions. The exception is perhaps Tartu, where so many places are simply drawn together. There's the other way around, there's more general education. So there have been fewer choices in the cities than expected at the beginning. Rather, more children come from the country to vocational schools, because they have a little more faith in such generations when choosing a specialty. The relationship between boys and girls is still two-thirds of the boys and one-third of the girls after the middle school pickers. The issue of small magymnasiums rose to the agenda in a slightly different context. Just as we've discussed here before, either to leave one gymnasium in every county or a few more. I still think there's a number of places. Take Jõgeva County, for example. It is likely that Jõgeva's upper secondary school in Põltsamaa will continue for a very long time due to its traditions. There are other places like Valga, Otepää and others. Can we make it so far in our debate today that we really bring in a training order, for example, in the case of thresholds or state secondary schools? I think that society is actually ready for this, because there is still very little to do when it goes straight to vocational education by 26 to 27 percent. And as I said, I'm not so worried about how many people go there after primary school, but the problem is that a considerable proportion of graduates in general upper secondary school do nothing. Which means we keep them in school. The attitude we had in our old days when, after high school vocational school, this culture was unfortunately lost. After high school, only 10% go to vocational school. I've also said, "Let them go to Gymnasium and then get a VET, but the figures show that they're not going anywhere." Probably there will be an upper secondary school ambition to go to higher education, but they will not qualify for higher education. Maybe there's not always this ambition, but it's like they don't want to go to vocational school anymore. They'll go again if we get them somehow, but then they'll be adults. Going through labour market measures or because of the so-called weaker background. This could only happen in a few years. So I'd rather think that we're in society willing to discuss whether this threshold might be 3.75, of 4 we dare not dream at first. So let's say this threshold is 3.6 or 3.7. Maybe we're ready for this, at least by agreement. Perhaps it must also be legally said that this is the limit. After all, we still have national harmonised exams in primary school, and it is objectively possible to set a threshold here. For example, during the transitional period, Finns have suggested that the results of the seventh, eighth and ninth grades should not be taken into account in order to avoid a situation where, if something goes wrong in the ninth grade, the threshold cannot be exceeded immediately. Perhaps we should take into account, for example, general development and also specific needs, perhaps in some subjects the child has poorer results. You could look at some uniform development over the seventh, eighth and ninth grade, and then say, look, here's the threshold. In our ministry, we think they're ready for this debate. If the Riigikogu has such a desire, then I am prepared to come to the Committee on Culture with this proposal in the autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U47	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U48	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Minister, first of all I would like to say that I share the pleasure of my colleagues in your return. But now the question of vocational education. In fact, Andres has already started this subject, which I would like to ask you about, i.e. what are the exact numbers on how much after comprehensive school they go to. I understand that the Estonian Association for the Promotion of Vocational Training is not satisfied with this 40% either. What are the plans of the Ministry? What else can we do to get students to attend vocational schools? On the subject of Maagymnasiums, I have a question as to whether statistics already show what you once referred to, that with state secondary schools we are taking students out of vocational education instead of giving students more. Are there any examples, or are there opportunities, that state secondary schools may also be able to obtain a qualification or that some upper secondary schools will cooperate with a vocational education centre?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U49	Thank you. Cooperation will take place, with state secondary schools and with some of the larger upper secondary schools. The question is, what is this cooperation? Four or five years ago, when state secondary schools started to develop vigorously, it really was a plan to make such joint programmes in the broadest sense. That's not what it's become. Using each other's labs, exchanging teachers, let's say the doors are open, that there's no living in separate towers. But there is no joint learning, at least not in the form we dreamed of. What can be done, and should we be more critical? Yes, we should be critical of the fact that state secondary schools with the same owner have not restricted reception for various reasons. And as I said, we have still not discussed the threshold, neither the GNP nor any other restrictions. It's quite exceptional. Looking at the rest of Europe, this is generally at least 30%. In many countries, this percentage is 40, sometimes 50, which is diverted and directed quite strongly. Our current situation may also have the reason that the "young pupils" share has decreased, and because there was enormous expectation and pressure in society, because we do have a disproportionate number of adults without qualifications, vocational schools became flexible in dealing with all target groups: those who are without basic education, those who have special needs, adults who have got their life between gears. Vocational schools with their flexibility actually solved so many of society's problems, and the involvement of young people may have left us a little out of sight. I think that our figure, this 26%-28%, has unfortunately remained the same, as it has all been done. What can we do? These are probably thresholds or training orders, but they are still restrictions. We need to get more students who go to high school. And at the same time, we are working to make it possible to move from vocational school to higher education, because we also need to show its output. Because if we look at Nordic experience here, there are always about 101⁄2% of those who want to learn further. There aren't so many more, but this 101⁄2 percent has to be created.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U50	Please, Heidy Purga!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U51	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is a great pleasure to see you so energetic in this debate and to know that everything is fine. I would like to ask about cooperation with businesses, which is quite good and workable in vocational education and training. We know that all vocational education and training is increasingly moving towards entrepreneurs. What are the best measures in your opinion to make vocational learners more effective in moving to the labour market?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U52	Thank you. First of all, thank you very much to all European taxpayers, because very many initiatives have come from European funds. Let us have the brains to continue many good things when European funds are no longer available. One of them is apprenticeship training, which I think is necessary. We once went to European countries to get to know things, including Germany, and the job training there made a very deep impression on everyone. It works very well for us, too. The number of participants in this is increasing, and it is through apprenticeship training that we catch up with adults who would otherwise not attend school. It's a model. Another thing that has come to work very well, and for which I thank all employers and vocational schools for their perseverance, is practice. If, a few years ago, this was still a serious problem at times, of course, it is still a problem in the regions, then now employers who take the practice with their heart have grown every year, this figure has grown mysteriously. They really take it to heart because they do conscious work, thus seeking the best students to work for themselves. These are perhaps the most positive examples. We probably need to make more investments. As technology is really ageing rapidly, we need to start thinking about whether it is worth re-investing heavily in technology or whether we are doing at least some technological development together with employers. We now need to rethink this model, because it has been a long time since 2004. We see that, especially in the case of mechatronic instruments, the metal industry already needs investments that the Estonian taxpayer is likely to agree with so easily in this form. This is perhaps the broadest area in which we can see that larger, more stable investments are needed. At times, we need to think this through with our employers. Maybe these things should be done at the workplace. I apologise to all the respondents for not being able to answer briefly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U53	We still have a round of negotiations in which everyone will be able to express their thoughts. Thank you, Minister. The third report will be presented to us today by Enn Veskimägi, Chairman of the Management Board of AS Standard. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U54	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Culture! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Minister of Education! Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Association for the Promotion of Vocational Training! Honourable guests! I congratulate the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu that you have taken the subject of vocational education into consideration as an important issue, because effective vocational education is important and is becoming increasingly important. I would like to say, first of all, that my presentation reflects the views of the Estonian Employers' Confederation and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, not just the views of Standard. Why should we have effective vocational training? From an employer's point of view, effective vocational education and training must provide the learner with the knowledge and skills that will enable him or her to work effectively immediately at the end of his or her studies. However, employers' surveys carried out by the Estonian Employers' Confederation have revealed that although there is a general view that vocational education is not much of a problem, nearly two thirds of businesses do not find enough employees to be needed among graduates of vocational training institutions. Most companies themselves are training new workers, and it is the commercial companies that do the most. What specialties should be taught in Estonia and at what level? A partial answer to this question is provided by the OSKA forecasting system for the training needs of the workforce set up at the Chamber two years ago. OSKA's analysis is worth taking seriously. The combination of labour market needs and training offers shall take into account the recommendations and proposals of sectoral panels of experts. The OSKA Coordination Board includes representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Ministry of Social Affairs, Ministry of Finance, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Central Organisation of Labour Associations TALO, the Estonian Trade Union Confederation, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund at the level of the Deputy Chancellors, members of the Management Board or the leaders of the organisation. To date, research has been made into the future's labour and skills needs in eight areas: ICT, forestry and wood industries, metal and mechanical industries, chemical and plastic industries, energy and mining, social work and health care. These studies show that in the near future, two trends are most likely to affect labour and skills needs: demographic change and technological development. It has been estimated that 60% of posts are those where 30% of the activities can be automatised. In the future, we will certainly do smarter work, more routine activities will take over technology. More and more workers are needed who are able to develop, operate and maintain smart machines and systems. For example, there is a need for more engineers and other positions requiring technological insight. There is a lack of product development, industrial, chemical, mountain, electronics, telecommunications, electrical and energy engineers, software developers, furniture technicians, CNC machine operators, harvester and forwarder operators, wood construction designers, mechatronics, automatics, maintenance technicians, mechanics and setters for machinery and industrial equipment, chemical industry, APJ machine and production operators and electricians. Many of these professions can be studied in vocational schools, both in the school-based form of study and in apprenticeships, but there must be a strong primary school before there can be, otherwise. Good listeners! When you noticed, I mentioned occupations that are one of the prerequisites for learning mathematics. I have been puzzled, but I still haven't figured out who wins the fact that in upper secondary schools narrow-based and broad-based mathematics has been introduced. Such a choice actually gives a completely wrong signal to middle school students, as if mathematics was not an important subject. Unfortunately, poor knowledge of mathematics leaves young people's choices open in the future. Teaching real sciences must still be so good that children in primary school do not lose interest in these subjects. We may, of course, be proud of our PISA test solvers, but the reality is that in higher education, for example, there are not enough students in real and natural sciences. And the reason is not for the state to finance these specialties little, the problem is the lack of interest of young people. I am not going to dissect now whether the greater concern with science teachers is also their post-growth is very scurvy or with the technical tools needed to teach natural materials, which are poor. In the light of technological developments, sector-specific ICT skills are needed in almost all disciplines in order to make better use of technological opportunities in their work. OSKA's analyses clearly show that it is certainly worth studying industrial disciplines. The wages are also worth it. Both the metal and mechanical industries and the chemical, plastic, rubber, wood and construction materials industries earn higher than average wages in business. In energy and mining, wages amount to 1.5 per cent of the Estonian average. Between 2016 and 2024, almost 50,000 more people leave the Estonian labour market than they enter. There is an increasing need for staff training. For example, the assessment of the need for training in the metal and machinery industries has shown that there is a need to improve staff's ICT knowledge in order to increase staff's willingness to retrain smarter equipment. Work-based learning is a good opportunity to raise the professional level of existing employees in companies. Both the Estonian Employers' Confederation and the Foundation Innove have done quite a lot to introduce job-based learning, or apprenticeship opportunities, but we do see a clear need to make this form of study more attractive to employers so that employers are more interested in contributing to it. The big plus of apprenticeships is that it gives an opportunity to teach an existing employee or a future employee exactly the skills needed in a particular workplace. Unfortunately, apprenticeships are a resource-intensive activity for employers. The apprentice is entitled to a fee which must not be lower than the minimum wage, plus fees for the instructors and possible cost for the student's dereliction and other such. Happy Riigikogu and representatives of the government! The Estonian Employers' Confederation and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry make three proposals that would definitely help promote vocational education. First, exemption from social security contributions paid to an apprentice. This is a sensible proposal, since, for example, the apprenticeship of a person studying at the level of vocational training is also the level of vocational education and training for the financing of health insurance, which is the responsibility of the state anyway. If students from a vocational school come to an internship or work as an apprentice, health insurance is therefore counted twice on their salary. The exemption of apprentices' remuneration from social tax would make it a little cheaper to hire apprentices and would help to popularise apprenticeships. Secondly, we see a clear need to make the financing model for vocational schools result-based. The financing model must include a component that takes into account the quality of teaching. The representatives of the world of work who are involved in vocational examinations or who cooperate with vocational schools are well aware of the main concerns of vocational education: unearned lack of popularity, high dropout rates, few competences of graduates. Practitioners say that the current financing model does not sufficiently motivate the school to contribute to the quality of learning. There may be a need for more money for vocational schools, as schools and new equipment that are largely repaired with the support of European money will soon be amortised. Several good initiatives, as came out of today's speech by the Minister for Education, such as cooperation projects between schools and businesses, will be carried out with the support of the European Union Structural Funds. There is no doubt that we need a national plan to start financing important activities after the end of the European Union's structural funds. Thirdly, the quality of professional examinations must certainly be maintained. The Ministry of Education and Research has agreed that each graduate must receive a certificate of formal qualifications. Doesn't that devalue vocational certificates? Employers are also concerned that the caps set for the mass performance of professional examinations do not meet the needs and make it difficult to involve good professionals. Graduation of vocational education and training, which is currently compulsory under professional law, should be separate from each other. The vocational school is completed by the final examination and after that, it is possible to pass the vocational examination by competition with a chosen professional. Employers consider the quality of professional examinations to be very important for professional examinations. Invitation must be an impartial process to determine whether knowledge and skills meet the requirements of the labour market. In our opinion, the organisers of professional examinations must be found by competition and the state should not determine the price of the professional examination. Good listeners! It is springtime, and many young people make choices about where and what to go about studying. I would like our schools and businesses to cooperate more and more in career guidance for young people. I recommend taking advantage of the opportunity offered by employers. On the occasion of the 100-year anniversary of the Employers' Confederation, many employers invite interested people to visit during May and show the kitchen side of their companies. The daily lives of banks and a number of industrial and IT companies can be seen. Businesses are welcome to visit students who are just starting to choose a future profession, students, parents, teachers, and just curious adults, this affects everyone. I think that on the right track are those vocational schools that are making an effort to promote their learning opportunities. I take this opportunity to highlight Haapsalu Vocational Education Centre, which brought three busloads of young people to Tallinn at the end of April to show a number of companies, including Standard. I have also heard that the Vocational Education Centre of Ida-Virumaa, for example, already goes to kindergartens to introduce the occupations. If you have any doubts about how to encourage your younger relatives or how to continue your own education, as a long-term employer, I suggest that a strong vocational education is better than half a soft higher education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U55	Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Please, Viktoria Ladynskaya!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U56	We are extremely pleased to see you in this hall today! Although you already spoke in your speech about the apprenticeship system, I would still like to ask and specify. What do you think about the effectiveness of the implemented system? Make your assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U57	I think it's positive. As for my personal experience, we only recently started using it. What a great deal we have devoted ourselves to supplementing and internship among graduates of vocational education and training. Perhaps it is easier to say that with the reform that was made with European money in vocational education in 2005-2007, a large number of vocational schools were modernised, but now the technology and technology on which young people are trained is beginning to get in the way of time. We have a clear need for this modern technology, which becomes technically more complex every day, to contribute to the apprentice. When a graduate comes to work, we do not get a finished product, but we get a young person who has professional school experience and maybe practical experience from different companies, but each company has its own technologies, various complex equipment, which is why such apprenticeships are definitely needed. There is no other way to train them to be prepared to lead everything independently.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U58	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Veskimägi, thank you for your presentation. Latvia is on the move in order to upgrade the technological and equipment levels of vocational schools, companies and vocational schools are increasingly seeking to cooperate in a more and more fundamental way. This is precisely so that the same expensive, novel, excellent, modern technology can be used both for production and learning. Did and to what extent the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, have discussed this idea? Could it also be in Estonia making such a development? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U60	Thank you for your question. I have to go back a little bit. As regards the Latvian industry, which I know a little more than other areas, the Latvians have modernised it very much with European money during the various funding periods of the European Union. I know what it was like in the wood and furniture industry. I was still chairman of the employers' council at the time and even went to Brussels to meet Mrs Mathernova, the director of this fund, which specifically concerned the Baltics and Scandinavia. I met him through Henrik Hololei. Latvia had about eight times the size of European subsidies compared to Estonia. We already lost a lot of technology to Latvia at the time. We have discussed this and, as I said to the previous questioner, this same cooperation with schools has been working for many years. We are still taking advantage of the possibility that we are bringing learners to practice. My personal understanding is that practice can be more frequent. Vocational school placements in companies could take place more frequently, not just two weeks or a month before the summer vacation. This could take place on a quarterly basis, so that students who have chosen a field would be involved in this industry or field throughout the study period. In this way, they gain much more practical experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U61	Please, Liina Kersna!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U62	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your very interesting presentation. I've been to several vocational centres. And it was in Haapsalu, to which you also referred, that they were very critical of the career training of general education schools. Young people graduating from comprehensive school, who should make important decisions in their lives, simply lack knowledge of the occupations that life offers them. I understand that now the vocational schools are starting to take their students to the companies to introduce them to the occupations. For example, how many kindergarten children, primary school children, primary school children have come to your company to show them what occupations, for example, can you study in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U63	Thank you. This is actually such a wide-ranging issue. I'm a member of the Old Town Rotary Club and a few years ago we made sure that the club members' children visited our companies. We have over 40 members, and with our children, we went through a number of companies. Secondly, as part of this same Rotary movement, we have been to introduce our companies to the upper secondary school and comprehensive schools in Ida-Virumaa. As for your question concerning Haapsalu, I would like to say that what was done in Haapsalu, i.e. going to the middle school classes to introduce companies and to offer excursions to them, is actually a fight for students. At the moment, upper secondary school leaders are interested in attracting as many students as possible. At the same time, a vocational school like this loses, and now the vocational school has stepped in and is doing so-called propaganda and advertising to get students from primary school. And the university is fighting for its heads. I would even characterize it as the education market actually has a fight, who gets this student's own, whether it's a vocational school, a gymnasium or a university. The demographic situation is such that the number of students is decreasing, which is why the fight for students has become more acute and probably continues.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U64	Andres Ammas, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U65	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! It was very sympathetic that you devoted so much of your presentation to apprenticeships and internships. However, they have identified this as one of their biggest problems when dealing with the managers of vocational training institutions. Cooperation with larger companies is already working very well in this regard at the much-approved Haapsalu Vocational Education Centre today, even with the company you run, but with smaller companies not so much. The quality of traineeships may not be very high every time. And it's all about the VETs here. I have visited Germany with a delegation from the Riigikogu, where the so-called responsibility for apprenticeships is purely on top of the umbrella organisations of companies and companies. How do you feel if we also have the strength and potential of corporate umbrella organisations, even the Confederation of Employers, to take on a greater burden in this process, to help schools even more?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U66	Thank you. I'm sure it is. This apprenticeship is such a year-old thing, it's in its early stages. As far as cooperation with large companies is concerned, unfortunately, it comes from our business market, from what kind of companies we have. Currently 90% of Estonian companies are small enterprises. If we look at the situation, the opportunities for small businesses to cooperate will certainly be considerably more difficult than for large companies. The fact that large companies still have people to involve, those who teach the apprentice. You must also find somewhere a resource that can be released from production to deal with them. Small businesses are unlikely to have such opportunities. The other thing is that, in my presentation, I did not mention it, that we still have 25 to 30% of those who go to vocational training after primary school or upper secondary school. In the previous reports, the question arose as to when we reached the ratio of 40 to 60. In efficient and strong industrialised countries such as Austria, Slovakia, Switzerland, 25% goes to higher education and 75% goes to vocational training. The whole education system is built in a different way. It may seem to us that Switzerland is a banking country, but it is actually a very strong industrial country. Vocational education is organised there in such a way that really talented people can go to higher education and there are no soft specializations that we have mentioned for extending childhood. In Finland it is also 40 years old: 60. We are also trying to achieve this, and the industry is long waiting for vocational training to become more popular, but unfortunately we have been in the same position for the last ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U67	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! In your report you referred on several occasions to the fact that ICT as a base for the future to function well in industry is extremely necessary, because technology is changing very quickly. You have also given an example of how investment in technology in vocational education 10 years ago will be exhausted quite quickly. This leads to the idea that the industry's own IT and technological base is playing an increasingly important role in training students. Perhaps the content of my question is whether the national vocational education system in its flexibility or in its inflexibility is capable of keeping up with time so quickly. Would it not be more reasonable if both resources were to be saved, to forcefully increase the share of technology in entrepreneurship, so that it can be used in the learning process by changing the whole understanding of this process?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U69	Thank you. I would like to give an example of forestry here. I have already mentioned the same harvester, or forest tractor, in the language of the people, which is still purely computer-controlled. The ability to work with it is provided in vocational schools. Since the equipment has become so much more complex, in fact, this education is now available even more in vocational schools. I think that, as far as ICT is concerned, in terms of teaching, the main IT College is here, but practically every university and most universities of applied sciences also teach ICT. I do not think that this should be an insurmountable problem. I believe that there is no need to redefine anything big in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U70	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, first of all, thank you for your presentation and your commitment to this area. In his presentation, the Minister pointed out that Estonia was an example of communication between entrepreneurs and the vocational education system. I would like to know what your assessment and understanding as an employer is? As you have pointed out here on several occasions, as an entrepreneur, you have had long-term and thorough cooperation in the field of vocational education. How do you assess the cooperation on which it is based and what, in your opinion, is the biggest problem in this area? Where should we start, and if there is a problem, how can we eliminate it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U72	Thank you. There are always problems. It could always be better, there is no doubt about it. But the most complicated thing I think is how to find a solution so that a higher percentage of middle school graduates go to vocational training. If we look at the current situation, this percentage has indeed been around 30 for many years. This includes those who have graduated from upper secondary school or have completed some kind of higher education. If you look at this scale, the number of young people who go to vocational training after primary school has decreased in percentage terms. It is precisely those with upper secondary school education who have not applied to the labour market or who have completed some kind of higher education that does not have a job market application. On this scale, the number of young people aged 25 to 30 who are older has increased in vocational training. When ten years ago, the average age in vocational training was 20 years, it is now 24.5. It is those of this age group who have come to study on the basis of some kind of need, either because they have not applied to the labour market, or because they have simply knowingly taken up a new specialty.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U73	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Mr. Veskimägi! I have such a question for you as a representative of entrepreneurs. What do you think of this idea if vocational schools were to be able to raise entrepreneurs' money to improve the quality of learning, be it for the necessary technical solutions, for the acquisition of inventory, for renewal, whatever it takes? How do you feel about this and have you also had discussions with your colleagues? What have been the views?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U74	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U75	Thank you. That's a very complicated question. It depends on the company, it depends on its profitability and its objectives. I think that there are certainly companies that have also supported and helped vocational schools, no matter how. Whether some modern equipment has been directly purchased now, I do not dare to confirm it, but there have been other subsidies. I know we've been helping out schools, for example, and giving other help. But if anyone has given technology grants directly, I dare not give heads here today. I'm sure there are, but maybe I don't know how to call them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U76	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U77	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Here's the question. In the light of Ossinovski's simplified employment law, have you thought about directing 13 to 14-year-olds to vocational education and training who, even after school, would be able to work, practice and other things in your so-called sheflus institutions? Has such an option been at issue, or is it too dangerous to employ young people?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U78	Thank you. Well, that depends on the young one. I was 12 years old when I first went on my summer vacation to earn my salary. It is worth supporting, in my opinion, that 13 to 14 years of age in the summer, either by agreement reached by the parents or on their own initiative, to do such light work. The sooner you give a young person this type of work experience and pay him some kind of reward, the better he may be able to appreciate the value of money. I don't mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U79	Dear waitress, thank you very much for your presentation. The time allocated for questions is over. Mr Sults, I'm sure you can also ask Tarmo Loodus for a fourth report. Tarmo Loodus is the Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Association for the Promotion of Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U82	Honours to the manager! Honourable members and guests of the Riigikogu, their people on the balcony! I am really glad that we can also put the debate on vocational education in line with the activities of the Republic of Estonia in 100 years. Vocational education in Estonia is still more than 100 years old, so it is certainly a worthy topic for one country. Indeed, I represent the Estonian Association for the Promotion of Vocational Training, which was established in 1999 to discuss the topics that are in this Chamber today. I have also provided you with a comprehensive overview of our company's views on the present and future of vocational education. Please read it positively! There are many suggestions and concerns, but it was a pleasure to write it to let you know everything. We agree today in this Chamber that one of the aims of education, including vocational education, is to create favourable conditions for personal development, to create prerequisites for everyone to complete continuous learning. The promotion of the economy certainly needs an educated, high-quality workforce, and we have talked about this relatively much here today. To achieve this task, schools, including vocational schools, are there, and we are pleased to confirm that vocational schools have very much changed over the last ten years to provide our employers, entrepreneurs, with the highest possible quality of new labour. On the other hand, we have been prepared to organise and we are also carefully organising labour force retraining, further training. For this purpose, the state of Estonia, together with the European Union's resources, has indeed re-programmed, re-programmed vocational schools over the last 10 to 15 years. We have very well-established educational institutions, relatively modern yet! just technologies for teaching. And what is also important is that there are mostly teachers and educators who work at school. That's what I'm talking about! How long this'still' lasts, I can't predict. In schools, we all work to keep teachers, educators, masters, members of the school family. In short, if you answer or think about the subject, you can say that you give money to your vocational education and that all your concerns can be solved. That would be very trivial. The fact is that money can solve almost all problems, but on the other hand, we have also perceived in vocational schools that sometimes the lack of money solves the problem. It forces us to work very effectively and to deliver. But before you talk about money, other important topics, some of which have been discussed in the hall, and some new ones. It is true that, by ensuring a high-quality workforce, we also commend employers. The developments of the last five years have made us discuss professional standards very seriously together, have made us think about how professional examinations are done, and have made it clear to us that cooperation in the organisation of traineeships, workplace-based learning or even apprenticeships is inevitable. And fortunately, this cooperation has worked well. In the association, we have discussed whether the state of Estonia could have some very important goals in vocational education. During these discussions, which have been here in the Committee on Culture, we have come up with an interesting idea that we believe could be legalised as a continuation of the Riigikogu: the obligation for Estonian people to receive an invitation by the age of 25. If we are saying that we currently have 30,000 uninvited adult workers, perhaps enforcing this proposal would help to improve the situation in the future. It is possible to acquire the profession from the first to the eighth level in the qualifications framework of the workforce, i.e. from a simple worker to academia. So there should be opportunities for everyone here. It has already been said that it is important to allow vocational education in every county. And we recognise that vocational education continues to be an effective instrument of regional policy, helping to prepare the necessary workforce for the region. At the same time, it is also a security component in border regions. A proper school with its own student body, a school with good ties to the local entrepreneurs, is certainly the case. What we need to talk about most today is the learner. In vocational education, 25,000 people study in the middle, plus thousands in refresher and retraining. And as noted, in connection with the decrease in the number of children, or our parents' unfinished work, we have been forced to flexibly change the contingent we teach. Today, indeed, more than half of the students are already adults, working or being targeted by the unemployment fund, and we are seriously working with them. As far as learners are concerned, it is quite worth recalling once again the Estonian Lifelong Learning Strategy 2020 which sets the general objective of creating learning opportunities for all Estonian people to match their needs and abilities throughout the life cycle. Vocational schools do just that. Unfortunately, there are also problems here. We may do so even more and be better partners for businesses, but the problem is the shortage of resources. Vocational schools are known to work on the basis of public training orders and, if it cannot be increased in recent years, it has been slightly reduced, then we cannot teach more. Another thing that has been discussed today is that a comprehensive school or upper secondary school student is going to vocational training. Here, one way is certainly what the Minister was talking about in order to set up a public training order for upper secondary schools and vocational schools as schools for the same age group. It might regulate the situation so that the future vision could be 60:40. I would point out that this ratio is 65:35 in the lifelong learning strategy. EKEC thinks 60:40 is better. In any case, that is all we are going to try out a year of professional orientation or something else, add to what has not been done so far and what should be done. On the one hand, it is also linked to teacher training. When we talk about where the teacher gets his education, he gets it from Tallinn or the University of Tartu. Unfortunately, it has nothing to do with vocational training. The teacher gets a general education. We see that there is no vocational education as such in this teacher training. Teachers are not told about vocational education, about what a vocational school does, about today's vocational schools, specialties, needs, etc. There is also one EKEC proposal: it is certainly worth sending teachers to vocational schools for apprenticeships. Let teachers in general education come to vocational schools for further training. One important proposal that I have received from the heads of general education schools and which I recommend to the Riigikogu and the Ministry to think about is to organise completion of basic school in the same way as graduating from upper secondary school. So maybe you can stop giving grades on the state exams and, in the event of failure, taking another exam in three days' time, where the student will definitely get three. In two days, it will be like a great Enlightenment. This isn't serious. If this option of becoming smart overnight disappears, on the one hand, the student's responsibility will certainly increase and, on the other hand, the upper secondary school or even the vocational school entrance tests that we are already doing will be a suitable filter for deciding who to learn. It is clear that, if there are places for public training, we must also talk about the money available. We can't get past or around the money. As I said before, we could train more people, there would only be more resources. The number of students in a vocational school depends on a public order. If VET is not given more money, we may think that our training capacity will be further reduced. And we don't want that. A separate subject, which I will talk about in a few words, is teaching people with special needs in vocational schools. We now have nearly 900 students with special educational needs. There are many problems with their teaching, as vocational schools lack specialists with special skills, teachers generally lack training and often do not just have the money to hire specialists. I can say that in all our schools there are 7 specialized pedagogues, 8 psychologists and 11 social pedagogues, which are probably very few for vocational education as a whole. Mostly larger vocational training institutions can afford to hire them. It is also a concern to know that the Ministry of Education and Research is discussing quite carefully whether to lose some special schools in Estonia, i.e. to reduce the number of schools for students with special needs. We are convinced that the training of children of basic school age with special needs in special schools must be encouraged. We see that work skills, work habits, are much better for pupils from these schools than for pupils with special needs coming from inclusive primary schools. So many learners. An important partner in vocational education is the unemployment fund. There hasn't been much talk about it today, but we teach relatively much at the request of the unemployment fund and also participate in their procurement for training. Our understanding is that once the state has fixed vocational schools with the money of the European Union and our taxpayer, it is now necessary to make maximum use of this resource, to put an end to this procurement and to provide for the possibility, probably in the VET Act and also in the Public Procurement Act, of schools to provide this service to the unemployment fund. This would be the way in which this investment with European Union money would be properly put in place. Entrepreneurship and cooperation with companies. Thank you once again to the entrepreneurs, because the cooperation of recent times has been excellent. We certainly have a common problem with workplace-based learning. Here, I dare say that mass development or growth of job-based learning is not foreseen, because 90% of us have small businesses, 10% large. In small companies, it is also very difficult to organise job-based learning because we do not meet study groups. It would take 10 to 12 students, and this is where we're stuck. One more thing that should be considered by the Riigikogu is how to find legislative solutions to compensate for the employer's costs in the learning process. Here is the remuneration of the internship instructors, the remuneration of the apprentice supervisor, the hiring of a support person to study in a company with special educational needs, etc. This education needs to be encouraged. In some countries of the European Union, this has also been done, it is a social tax advantage, etc. I'm guessing there's a lot of discussion here. Schools, teachers. The Minister has already mentioned that this is one of our most difficult places. In fact, the pay requirement for a good professional teacher is EUR 1500.2500 per month (gross salary), even more in ICT disciplines. By the rules that apply to the general school payroll, you can't play here. Just either you choose a bad, mediocre teacher or you find a way to pay more. Some schools do so-called service work here, get extra money and then can afford it. It's not normal. The best thing would be to say this: the pay of a vocational school teacher is the average salary of a person working in an enterprise in this field. When we are talking about information and communication technology, it is clear that a good teacher must be bought in at 2,500-3500. If, unfortunately, we are talking about the furniture industry, perhaps we can get this good teacher for 1,000 euros, because wage levels are different. Finally, another problem of vocational education, which, it seems to us, has simply been overlooked by someone. It is the autonomy of a vocational training institution. The situation is that the Education Act is very clear: 'Call education institutions are autonomous in their work. " Autonomousism is about organising an independent school life, trusting school leaders and the collective. In the context of centralisation, this autonomy has completely disappeared. As the Minister said, this is an issue that needs to be discussed. As head of school, I spend most of my time clicking in my office, confirming bills, answering questions from the National Audit Office, who for a year controls our activities, responding to the Rescue Board, answering, answering, answering, answering. We have less and less time for real school management. We therefore have a request that the transfer of vocational schools to Riigi Kinnisvara AS or the provision of services to us be reviewed through the State Support Services Centre. It's not a sensible thing to do. Vocational schools have very different needs, things need to be considered. When speaking to the Minister, we have also discussed the possibility of following suit by the Ministry of Culture, whose museums have become foundations. Maybe we should do it with vocational schools. Good members of the Riigikogu! Estonian vocational training has generally worked well; it is a success story. Unfortunately, I think it's fine-tuning to the end of the line, and it seems to us that at times it has been dimmed. In general education discussions, the quality of basic education and upper secondary school education and the skills of the graduates of these schools, on which the functioning of all vocational education and training in the Estonian educational area depends, are important for vocational education institutions. We are ready for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U83	Thank you. Questions for Tarmo Nature. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Entrepreneurs and experts have said that we are not very good at predicting what occupations and jobs we really need in ten years' time. In a globalising world, this could be the case, especially in the light of technological developments. How do you feel, in a situation where there is a lack of teachers, thanks to those teachers who have worked in this system to this day? The problem of having no teachers with technology, and what is taught at school, is no longer responding to what employers need? That is why you, too, have the question of 'technological practice', precisely with the companies. This could take place on an even greater scale than at school today. You could say that the school is familiar with virtual technology, I'mUtrating a little bit, but with a particular technology at the employer. The question is rather that the skills and logic of work that a student, a future employee needs...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U86	...must be able to adapt quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U87	Thank you for your question. Completely on the right track with your question, and the answer is simple. Of course, it is essential, above all, to try to give people general skills at school so that they can quickly re-align in their fields so that they can learn more, improve themselves. If the employers have said that we should let out of vocational school a person who is willing to work immediately, I will argue with you here a little bit. You can't be ready right now, you have to do more type training, which is to give this specific lesson, which is due to the company's specifics. As for the renewal of technologies and the anticipation of ten years, we do not know how to do this, and it is hopeless in some ways. We can imagine that the technology sector is developing well. And if today there has also been talk of information technology coming into different fields, then not school can be a fortune teller or reviewer, but we look at the employer and ask: dear people, you can plan for the development of technology in your field, tell us what the competence in information technology is that is needed by a metal processer, a wood processer, etc., and we will put it in our curricula. It's a cooperation place. I also think that if we take today's graduate and we think he's gonna work on current knowledge for the next 50 years, he's not gonna do it. We're lucky to see him at his school maybe three, four or five more times. This means that the next question at school is where the technical base is. I think that in the future, in schools teaching majors and complex disciplines, the technical base will be virtual, as you said. I am rather in favour of the idea that the Minister said today that, together with private business, technology centres should be set up. The city of Turku, for example, has one. There, a university, a vocational school and a university of applied sciences together with entrepreneurs have established a technology park where all modern technology is available. In two years, it can be replaced with a new one. We teach during the day, we produce at night. So we need to find this common opportunity. In Estonia, such centres would probably be needed in two to three, maybe four. In any case, it is necessary to resolve matters in cooperation with economic operators.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U88	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! Maybe I'll say something again, but is this a very big middle school, especially 7/8? Against the background of falling out of class, it is also designed to start vocational education , but it was lost at the level of 7-? And the other half of the question. At one time, young teachers were motivated to go to vocational school by the fact that vocational school teachers had a 20% higher salary than regular school teachers. When could it come back on the agenda? Not to mention the masters, they're underfunded. Maybe you can explain it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U90	On the one hand, the number of students entering upper secondary school or comprehensive school vocational training depends on whether there is a national training order. On the other hand, it is a question of career guidance. In vocational education and training institutions, we acknowledge that career counselling is rather chaotic in Estonian primary school. People are unprepared for this, and that is a problem for us. If it were different, it'd probably come more. Now that there's something about vocational training in the 7th, 8th, 9th grade. According to the VET Act, we can do pre-vocational training. However, it is often the case that when you look at the basic school class distribution, or curriculum, the place where you put this vocational or pre-vocational education, as it is not. It has to be said here that there is no room for electives in comprehensive school curricula. If there were more choice, there would probably be more players. Viljandi Vocational Training Centre is currently working very well with Saarepeedi School, for example. We have bases, let's do it. It's the same in another place. Either and how to apply it more, I don't know. Rather, I also have the answer here that we could think about whether nine grades are quite basic or ten better. A simple reason: if a child comes into vocational training, one problem is his or her minority if we send him or her to internship, for example. Looking at us, maybe 10 classes would be better. The second part of the question concerned 20% of this. Yeah, it was. Our position, which we have distributed to you here, also states that this salary could be the salary of 1.3 teachers in general. Maybe it'll get better with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U91	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Nature, thank you for your presentation and thank you also for the very correct format of the written presentation. We've had little talk about the money here today. You yourself have indicated in your presentation on several occasions that a national training order does not allow one thing or another to be done or taught more and that the national training order should not be reduced. But tell me, as head of school, what is the real cost of a single curriculum? Do you even know that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U93	Thank you. Well, that's a very good question anyway. After all, we expect a new financing system as early as 1 January 2014, because, as the VET Act adopted in 2013, the Ministry had to introduce it. We're still waiting like snow, which we can't hope for anymore, but we'll wait. That's one problem. Another problem is that indeed, on what basis this new monetary system will be made. There are two or possibly even several options. One way is to calculate the cost of the curriculum. Fortunately, the Ministry of Education and Research has once done so in the field of information technology, which we are told to have a coefficient of 1.0. Three schools calculated how much money would be needed to teach everything in a beautiful way so that technology would exist, etc. They reached EUR 4600. Our current money is 1680. I will add another comparison to the Finns, although it must not always be nice to look at the neighbours: they currently have a single student's bounty of EUR 7000.8000. So what's the difference? Actually, it's just teachers' wages. All the rest of the technology, the electricity, whatever the cost is more or less the same, but the difference between teachers' pay is four times the difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for the material and the presentation. My question concerns the scholarship for pupils with special educational needs. As we know, when they study at the university, the Ministry of Education and Research pays them a scholarship. Its size is not enough, and it can be argued. But when we get to vocational school, there's no special scholarship. They are covered by all the benefits and benefits provided to ordinary pupils, and the school is also able to pay any allowances, but it may not always meet the needs and it is not always transparent. What's your position? Should we lose this inequality, where we prefer one to another, so that students with special needs can still study in vocational schools, such as deaf people who need sign language services?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U95	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U96	Thank you. On the last part of the question, the Kurds study in Viljandi and the Ministry of Education and Research finances a separate translation of sign language for our school and also for other schools. This issue has been resolved. However, we do not really have any special scholarship for learners with special educational needs. It's all one system. The country has foreseen in the regulation what can be obtained: EUR 60, if you are well-learned, if you are in a difficult economic situation, you can also get EUR 60, sometimes more. No special scholarship. However, I like this question very much, do we treat learners of the same age level equally? So I'm asking you, friends, why is it that in general school, the upper secondary school student's food allowance is 1.30 to 1.35, but in vocational education there are still 78 cents. Then why is that, isn't it? Or when we talk about accommodation, in the case of an upper secondary school student, the allowance is considerably higher than what a vocational school gets to accommodate its student. The same question again, why is that? Unfortunately, I don't know the answers. I have an opinion, but I'm not gonna tell you what I think. Would it make sense to pay? I think this scholarship and support are still needs-based. And I believe so, at least in the example of my school, that these things can be solved so that it is not a problem. However, I support what applies to the principle of equal treatment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U97	Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U98	Good President! Good Tarmo! One of the places where I think all four waitresses stopped is still the end of primary school and that proportion is the ideal 40: 60 or 35: 65. The reality is 25: 75 or more. It's a thing that's been talked about a lot. But the fact is that a basic school student is also bound by the fact that we have a basic school and upper secondary school law that is common to basic school and upper secondary school. Could it help to separate primary and upper secondary schools at the legislative level?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U99	Thank you. My ideal is definitely what has happened in Viljandi. We have a separate upper secondary school and have comprehensive schools. And if there was a rumor that it didn't work, I'd say it did for the first few or three years. But then, indeed, the Ministry decided that last fall they could take another classful, and then we got into a bit of a fight. Do you want to break the law? The fact that the law is at all that I think the education law is coming is currently in the debate, that changes can be made there. Vocational education is regulated by the VET Act. Maybe it should be a VET law to talk more about education than about an institution. The authorities are public authorities, and this can be regulated differently. In any case, I support the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act separately, if that were the case. Because, in fact, one is compulsory education, basic school education, the other is already a free choice, i.e. vocational or upper secondary school education. This could in this case be a one-level education law that talks about vocational education and talks about upper secondary school education. That would make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U100	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U101	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I am very grateful for all the work the Commission has done in preparing the debate on this subject. One painful issue, which has also been addressed, is the subject of support specialists in the field of vocational education. We have given a lot of attention to this issue in the context of initial and basic education, including upper secondary schools. As a practitioner, how do you feel about the need for a social pedagogy, a psychologist in vocational education centres? How is it satisfied? What does your internship say?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U102	Thank you. With support specialists, of course, they must be in school. If we're talking about a Pathfinder here or that we're sending our student to the Pathfinder for advice, then the Pathfinder people don't know the student, they don't know and they don't know the circumstances of our school. It's like they're responsible, but according to my understanding, the paperwork doesn't make it work, everything's done. If I hurt them now, I'm sorry everyone, but that's the impression I have. The school's support specialists solve things on the ground. In our school and in many others, a group supervisor has been appointed who only deals with students, that is, a class manager for 200 students. He operates from morning to evening, 24/7, deals with deaf people, there are simplified curricula and whatever. However, this has led to a reduction in school dropout, a person with time for each student. Two hundred learners are likely to have problems with 30 to 40; the rest are devout and good, graduate with commendations. So it's important. Unfortunately, if there is no money, there are no support specialists. As I said before, a couple of dozen people are on top of our dozen schools. And here's the part where you can talk about equal treatment again. If our Ministry is looking for funds to finance general education support specialists, please follow the same principle for VET support professionals!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U103	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U104	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Tarmo! I have two requests for you. When I tell you my time, you'll be a little under five minutes, but I hope that's enough for you. The first request is for you to comment on the subject of the Masters and Teachers' payroll and the role of the state order. Do you see that there's a way to make a difference here, or is it pretty much okay? Second of all, you'll be able to talk everything out of your mind if there's something on your mind or if you feel that there's something else you'd like to touch in your report.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U105	Thank you. Well, that's a good offer. The answer to the first part of the question is that indeed, in some years it has been the case that, if the state provides for general education teachers to have an increase in the wage fund as a result of an increase in the minimum wage, vocational education has become part of it, and sometimes we are forced to find the missing part of it. We need to review our resources all the time, and this has led us to become very effective. But there's no more savings than there is. The second thing that has really bothered me is that when last year's average wage increase for public employees was declared to be 4 to 4.5%, in vocational education and training, only the money due to the change in the minimum wage was allocated to schools. Such a 4% increase in the pay of masters or other employees we have not seen for a long time, as I recall. Everyone has done so that the school itself serves, provides services, receives money and can then finance these things. It's a place of concern. But I'm gonna throw a bomb in the air. I'm sorry, the ball, not the bomb, you can't use that word in the Riigikogu. That bomb can be pulled down in the steinogram, I promise! I'm throwing one ball in the air, and it's teacher's time. The teacher has reduced working hours, 35 hours. The real situation at school is that he can handle it. His working hours are much longer, and now the school leaders both in general education and in our vocational education are opening up how to show it 1.0, in accordance with the Employment Contracts Act, that he actually has much more work. After all, vocational education also lasts 15 days longer than general education, so more so. My suggestion is that, listen, Riigikogu, discuss this through a teacher's working time of 40 hours as for any normal person. But then, please, add the five-hour money to his salary immediately, so he gets 40 hours for actual working time and gets paid 40 hours for it, not 35! That would be one thing that would suit the teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U106	Thank you, Tarmo Nature! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I am opening negotiations and, at the request of the Committee on Culture, I propose to you, ladies and gentlemen, that representatives of the political groups speak first. Heljo Pikhof on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! Good guests! In Europe, on average, every other graduate continues in vocational school. In Estonia, 26.27% of young people go to vocational education after primary school. We wish there would soon be a third more of them. It's a complicated assignment. However, there is a shortage of working hands in Estonia, and many companies need well-trained workers. At the same time, in 2015, we had 19000 young people who did not study or work. Many of them lack both education and work skills. I've heard a radioman call them a snowflake generation. It is vocational education that could give many young people who have given up their lives and are sheltered by the virtual world a way to continue education and study the profession. Vocational education is not a dead end, it is also possible to go to higher education once you have learned to study. Moreover, no skill or knowledge runs down the sides. The level of vocational education has increased, in the last 10 to 15 years, with the support of the European Union and Estonia's state budget, and the learning environment in vocational schools is very good. Yet, although vocational schools could accept nearly 35,000 students, only 25,000 students actually study there. Yes, the reputation of vocational schools is poor among middle school graduates. Parents are also obsessed with prejudices from old times, and their child is still expected to be trained in white collars. Neither schoolchildren nor school teachers have heard much about the new opportunities offered by vocational schools, stressing the union of student self-governments. In addition, young people in low-born vintages are subject to frequent ripping between vocational schools and upper secondary schools. Against this background, the surprise of the year belonged to a young man named Gert Lees. Gert, who studied mechatronics at the Tartu Vocational Education Centre, reached the finals of this year's Rocket 69 programme. The show is very popular among young people and children, and has already raised an entire generation of smart people. However, when one of the smartest clever ones declares that you can do things with your own hands in vocational schools and that the machine builder is a man in the future, it raises the prestige of vocational education by more than a thousand lectures. Along with young people's shyness, we can see that those who take vocational education have grown older. The proportion of students over 25 years of age has grown strongly year-on-year, with vocational education and training becoming more and more an adult face. According to last year's analysis, the main aim is to improve their position on the labour market, with more than half of them having acquired a specialty in the past and a fifth even having higher education. With their renewed teaching bases and good teachers, vocational schools play an important role in lifelong learning, including continuing training, in all areas where employers, unemployment funds or employees themselves have a demand and need. However, the important question remains: how can vocational education and training keep pace with time, actually one step ahead of time? Two trends have the greatest impact on the labour and skills needs in the near future: demographic change and technological development. Soon we will do much smarter work, more routine activities will take over technology. More and more, we also need workers who are able to operate and maintain smart machines and systems, with modern knowledge, mechanics, operators, electricians. In cooperation with employers, some vocational schools may be able to update their curricula. Vocational education has at least two major areas or a complex of problems where the system without the help of the state and entrepreneurs and the support from behind the stump cannot be opened. First, the internship base. This is not satisfied either with students who do not understand practical skills or with vocational teachers. Business umbrella organisations coordinate the number of training places offered by the Ministry of Education and Research, but only represent the interests of their companies and do not take into account the needs of local entrepreneurs. Especially in small companies, it is difficult to find internships supervisors, because the volume of production depends on each individual employee. Let us remember that over 80% of companies have up to nine employees. The employer's expenditure on organising apprenticeships has not been resolved. No supporting support service, no supported job service. However, the Vocational School, which is responsible for organising traineeships related to the curriculum, does not have the money for the teacher to visit the internship base on a regular basis, not to mention the fact that he or she is supervising the internship there himself. And, of course, students with special educational needs, HEV, as we are accustomed to saying briefly. Here you can easily classify as highly talented, innately different, medically disabled and non-linguistic students, or just dogs boys. Why am I bringing this up here? Just their concentration in vocational education is considerably higher than elsewhere. Information about the need for an education support from a comprehensive school to a vocational school is not available. In addition, HEV is marked in comprehensive school and vocational school on different grounds, which of course requires harmonisation. Thus, HEV students often get into a group with ordinary students, and the school does not discover their special needs until a long time later, when learning difficulties have already arisen. An assessment of the need and scope of the support may point out that some of them need learning in a small group or individual curricula and pedagogical interventions, urgently need support in business placements and even after completion of the study by going to work life. However, the school does not have the opportunity to do all of this. Our current government has a truly noble goal that every young person can continue to study after primary school, either in upper secondary school or in vocational school, to decide fate or will. However, we should contribute more than ever to vocational schools, their image, and support systems, so that young people do not abandon their education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U108	Honourable Riigikogu, before we continue, we are in such a danger that working hours may run out. Dear Riigikogu, the Committee on Culture has proposed to extend the session until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14. Please take a stand and vote. There are 18 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal, one against, no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Working time has been extended until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. On behalf of the Heidy Purga Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U109	Hi! First of all, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to thank all those involved who discussed vocational education at the meetings of the Committee on Culture. We had a lot of visitors. Thank you, too, to those who have shown some interest in this topic in this Chamber of the Riigikogu! For years, school students with poor grades have been threatened to graduate from vocational school. This has seriously damaged the reputation of VET centres and, despite great efforts, it has been quite difficult to restore this reputation. I believe that we still have a lot of work to do to ensure that the importance of vocational education and training centres is conscious and that they are valued to the extent necessary by society. Modern vocational education is one of the most important trends in future labour market processes. Vocational education becomes more and more important to ensure the sustainability of the country and its economy. This is confirmed by a number of reports and studies that have been discussed here today. It is also important to take into account today's very fast-growing technology, which regulates highly the order for vocational education in the labour market. Occupations change. Many of the jobs that previously required vocational education are already automated, and this in turn sets very demanding criteria for new labour and vocational training. People must increasingly be able to understand, configure, control and operate machines. And this is just one example among many. In the future, people with such skills will have great advantages. In Estonia, relations between VET recipients and entrepreneurs, municipalities, the state and other stakeholders have been more occasional. There is no comprehensive curriculum covering the student's entire education in this field until the transition to the labour market. In addition, the landscape of coordination of vocational training has a large number of players. Vocational education is carried out by the Ministry of Education and Research, Innove, Vocational Chamber, ETKL, EKTK, unemployment fund, etc. This makes the coordination of learning very hectic, time-consuming and complex in many of the parties involved. The long and in-depth debate in the Committee on Culture has quite clearly confirmed that one of the main problems of vocational education and training is today this great fragmentation. The Reform Party considers it very important to give more motivation to entrepreneurs. This would improve cooperation between vocational schools and businesses, leading to a more thoughtful and supported system of placements, as well as training provision. There are a wide range of good models for cooperation with businesses. The principle of models is mostly that the person turns to the employer first and reveals what kind of invitation he or she is interested in. After that, the employer organises practical vocational training and, which is very important, also finds a school of academic education for those interested in the profession. In addition, it should be regulated by law that during this so-called apprenticeship, the trainee receives 60% of full remuneration. This particular example comes from the German apprenticeship system. The most important link in vocational education is more thoughtful and concrete contacts and cooperation with entrepreneurs. This would help the learner to enter the labour market more easily and quickly, according to their specialty, and to start earning wages immediately without further obstacles. Vocational education must be treated in the overall educational picture with the same priority as other education, including no discrimination against VET teachers compared to the wages of other educational staff. At present, there is a huge shortage of skilled professionals, especially in modern, new disciplines. And if these specialists don't have a decent salary, this system will never be complete. There are other nuances that make vocational education comprehensive. In cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research and the Estonian Association for the Promotion of Vocational Training, the proposals made must be dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U110	On behalf of the Group of the Viktoria Ladynskaja Isamaa and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U111	Honourable Riigikogu, guests and experts in the field! Thank you for the necessary debate. As a member of the Committee on Culture, I recognise that the Commission has discussed the issue of vocational education very thoroughly. We worked through a lot of documents, several experts and guests attended. There were discussions between them. As a member of the Baltic Assembly, the subject of vocational education is now also the focus of the Baltic cooperation body. The IRL Group and the political party as a whole have always been interested in discussing educational issues. To summarise briefly the discussions that have taken place over several months, the main points are, in substance, as follows. Item No 1: Reputation for vocational education and training. This topic is one of those that has been achieved in a number of debates. It turns out that at the level of parents, but also at the level of school and also at the level of society, it is as if the student who went to upper secondary school was better and the less good students went to vocational schools. It's as if vocational school is for those who can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't. On the other hand, it is as if society expects vocational schools to be very good and skilled professionals. In short, these two stereotypes are harmful. Moreover, they contrast with each other, as if we expect the weakest to be elevated. These things should still be explained. Firstly, it is not at all that the level of vocational education is lower than the level of upper secondary school education. On the contrary, some data show that professional requirements and knowledge gained there are better than upper secondary school levels. Secondly, it is relatively difficult to demand good results from vocational schools in training specialists if we label them as pupils who were not fit for upper secondary school at the outset. Vocational education is important. It is very good if a young person chooses a specialty, gets a specific profession. It is logical for him to find an application on the labour market, and it is even more fun if he can continue his learning process after receiving vocational education. Vocational education is not a separate growing tree branch, but a very important part of general education and perhaps even a better option compared to upper secondary school education. Item 2: Vocational education and training in Estonian. A completely separate topic is vocational education and the transition to system 60:40, i.e. the transition to Estonian-language education. As we know, the law stipulates that the transition from 2020 will take effect. We must learn from the experience and mistakes of general education and upper secondary school. It is high time to pay enough expert attention to this topic to analyse where more Estonian language teachers are needed, where more professional methodology is needed. Otherwise, we will again face the same problems, which are not directly related to people's willingness to learn the language, but to the organisational shortcomings of the state. I urge the Ministry to analyse and deal with this situation now so that no political party will be tempted to take advantage of the sensitive issues of Estonian and Russian education before the next Riigikogu elections in 2019. And item number 3: Disabled people and vocational training. Training for people with special needs is a wider problem than vocational training. One of the fundamentals of social integration and equal opportunities is education, which facilitates the transition from education to the labour market. Of course, we must also develop the idea of lifelong learning. VET institutions are playing their part in this agreement and are still offering these people some opportunities to acquire a profession, but this is not a mass because there are few specialists with special skills in schools, and schools do not have the money to hire them. VET institutions are also concerned about the plan to liquidate a number of schools for learners with special needs. Finally. Vocational education is undervalued in Estonian society, but the image of vocational education is improving and this path must be continued. The next major step is to increase cooperation between businesses and schools, because we are still training professionals to work in companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U112	On behalf of Thomas Väinaste Central Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U113	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Guests! Honour and praise to today's rapporteurs who made their meaningful presentations and, of course, to the Committee on Culture, led by Professor Aadu Musta, the chairman of the committee, that the debate on vocational training has come this far. The Committee on Culture has listened to the parties involved, held discussions and also visited vocational training institutions on the ground to get an overview of vocational training and to have a firm understanding of it. Of course, there are quite a number of changes and improvements that need to be made on the side of the law. Cooperation between professional institutions and businesses should be brought to a normal today's level, whether on the subject of up-to-date educational material, equipment or legislation. When we went to the Rakvere Vocational School and there were entrepreneurs there, it was said that if the school is taught with equipment that is not as up-to-date as today's company, it is not compatible. You should keep up with time all the time, but of course, that requires money. Vocational schools, such as Rakvere Vocational School, also deal with the issue of education so that students do not leave school lightly. This was also the case with Aadu Black in his report. Mailis Reps said that vocational education has become a shadow of general and higher education. We have a large number of people who have never mastered any specialty. Vocational institutes need support specialists, well-trained lecturers, masters. This, of course, means that vocational training institutions need more money. Enn Veskimägi pointed out that real subjects are important when going to a vocational education institution. I can give you an example from myself. There were trainees in my company, and then these trainees, the taslers, came to work for me. The tisler work is also an area where a very good mathematician must be. If a tisler spends half the time calculating, then there's no more time for work. So that's the reality. There was also talk of exempting apprenticeships from social tax, which must certainly be discussed. Of course, the model of funding for vocational schools needs to be revised and the quality of vocational examinations must meet the requirements of the labour market. Tarmo Loodus has expressed the opinion of the members of the Estonian Association for the Promotion of Vocational Training that in order to increase the quality of the workforce and reduce the number of untrained workers, the obligation to acquire an invitation by the age of 25. That's what he said off this remote. Remember, once we had such a slogan for everyone in secondary education.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U114	Thomas Väinaste probably needs more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U115	Yeah, a little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U116	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U117	At that time, we had to attend even evening school to receive secondary education. We know that secondary education always costs less than vocational training. The subject of special schools also ran through the presentations. Yes, we have discussed in the Committee on Culture the direction taken last year that special schools should be abolished and pupils with special needs should be disbanded into primary schools. But Tarmo Loodus's presentation turned out that students in special schools were prepared for vocational training and were also disciplined learners. The taxation of the remuneration of traineeships should be reviewed. I sincerely believe that the debate on vocational training will continue in the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu as well as in the House, because vocational training is one of the strong starting points for entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U118	On behalf of the Free Party Group, Krista Aru, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U119	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear guests! Good people's representatives! I thank the Committee on Culture, I thank all our guests today, especially the waitresses, who brought many concrete proposals to this Chamber of the Riigikogu, with which the Committee on Culture can really continue to work, and with which the Group of the Estonian Free Party can also continue to work. Vocational education must not be modest, as vocational education is the bloodstream of our economy. Those words, I think, are very true even today, are actually included in 1927. These were said by Jaan Tõnisson here at the Riigikogu Speaker's Board when talking about the state budget of 1928 and seriously discussing how to finance general education, upper secondary school education and how to finance vocational education. The fact that vocational education is the circulation of the economy was one of the central points of discussion and debate held in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Perhaps this is one of the problems that vocational education has not been valued in our society today as it deserves, that we have not talked about it enough. We have not praised it ourselves; we have not acknowledged it ourselves; we have not even, as Tarmo Nature said, even rewarded it on several points. There was also talk of school lunch and transport support. If we look at such questions, it is no wonder that the image and value of vocational education are left to the VET institutions themselves. This is not right, because vocational education is the circulation of the Estonian economy. I do not want to repeat all the suggestions and nice thoughts that have been said here today. I would like to summarise the views of the Group of the Estonian Free Party in four brief points. First of all, the fact that vocational education is still part of a general education path is not a matter of itself. Let us avoid the risk of once again looking at separate vocational and general education, upper secondary school education, higher education and higher education. Vocational education is part of a natural course of education. It's not a dead end, it's not the end of anything. This may be the beginning of higher education studies, it may be the beginning of working life, and so you should actually look at, evaluate and then find the most serious faults why one or the other thing doesn't work so well. This can be done very well, with round tables such as those organised by the Committee on Culture. In my opinion, the fact that the Committee on Culture was able to bring together representatives of so many interest groups and to get them to discuss with each other already shows itself the strength of vocational education itself. Vocational education, by its very nature, can overcome even the greatest confrontations if they exist anywhere and highlight the general objective. Secondly, the content and quality of vocational training itself. It's the subject of the curriculum. As has been said here today, no one knows what tomorrow needs. We do not know what the professions that the Estonian industry needs most are. However, unlike Mr Veskimägi, I cannot say in any way that OSKA gives us a clear sense of what occupations should be taught. Rather, we could be brave here and look at the great regional differences in Estonia, the small Estonia, trust local companies, trust professional schools, who, in cooperation with companies in their region, will find out whether there is a need to train skilled workers in Jõhvi and Kohtla-Järve's side, especially for energy purposes, or whether they also need to be trained for mines. There's no need for them in Viljandi. So the regional or regional dimension that already exists could be more boldly emphasised. Three. Vocational teacher, a master must be a wonderful man. He must also be a teacher. This educational side of vocational education, just as in education at all, we have, in the meantime, been ashamed to say that education is also education. Yeah, it's not just knowledge, it's growing up. And in vocational education, it's also part of general subjects, part of professional skills. There must still be very good teachers, very good masters, very good people. If we have these competence centres at the University of Tallinn, at the University of Tartu, let us make them work! The fact that vocational education needs teachers from there is elementary. The reputation of vocational education. I think that reputation is not so much a problem at all, but a matter of attitudes left in society. Obesity is the hardest thing to deal with and would rather not fight against these attitudes. The desire to pursue an ever higher education has been characteristic of Estonians since the beginning of time. Rather, the whole force should be directed towards improving vocational education and training itself, because there are all these advantages, early opportunities and opportunities. There are a great many concrete things that can be done. The Ministry of Education and Research would expect a bold initiative, an apprenticeship, a job-based education, retraining or further training. Wait for this fragmentation to end, that everyone is involved in this area: Innove is involved, the Pathfinder is involved, the unemployment fund is involved, the Ministry of Education is involved and someone else is involved and everyone knows what to do. Trust the VET driver! He and his teachers know what needs to be done and how to proceed. Finally. We must rejoice at what we have well achieved with our vocational education and also know that strong, good, high-quality and necessary vocational education for society has been firmly established in Estonia centuries ago. That's not big news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U120	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U121	Thank you, Mr President. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U122	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U123	Thank you to the Committee on Culture for organising today's debate and a special bow to the rapporteurs for their meaningful presentations. In January of this year, a work capacity reform was launched aimed at bringing people with reduced working capacity into the labour market and contributing to social well-informed work. But what can be the basis for people to be able to cope with the labour market? It is a good education, including a very good vocational education. As a result, in my short speech, I will focus on the subject of students with special educational needs. In fact, the work capacity reform started already in 2012, when the Government of the Republic signed a memorandum of principles on cooperation with representative organisations for people with disabilities. It made it very clear that education is one of the fundamentals of social integration and equal opportunities and that it is necessary to support the transition of children with special educational needs and disabilities, young people, adults from education to employment and certainly lifelong learning. I will bring out four issues or concerns that are important to pay attention to. The first is the implementation of the principle of inclusive education and better communication of social and educational services and the opportunities for young people with disabilities to make use of them. Inclusive education, the idea of which I support, does not work in substance if schools do not have support specialists or assistant teachers. There is a lack of specialists and money to hire them. Track-finder centres are unable to support schools sufficiently and essentially, especially in large areas. At the same time, the Pathfinder centres are, to some extent, even competitors in schools, attracting professionals with better pay conditions out of the school. In more complex cases, such as those with union and mental disabilities, there are few competent teachers in Estonia. Concern: Children with disabilities, young people's benefits have been scattered between social and educational institutions. There are duplications in sighting, evaluation and intervention, both state and family resources being used unreasonablely. There is a need for a fundamental change in the financing of support systems. The funding must reach the school directly, targeted and directly to the student. There is a need to make better use of existing support professionals and to stop duplication of social and educational services, starting with a pilot project, the content of which is to link services to the target group for children and young people with severe and deep disabilities, combining, for example, the assessment of rehabilitation needs, disability and specific educational needs. Do we need inclusive vocational education or special schools? Inclusive vocational education and training is uneven as the responsibilities for support services are unclear between schools and local authorities. Schools find it difficult to provide support services and adapt learning, as there are individual groups of learners with special educational needs and special needs vary greatly. In VET, schools also lack funding to extend the study period of a learner with special educational needs. It can be done, but only at the expense of the school itself. Students with visual impairments, as well as graduates with basic education in the CPC curriculum, have very narrow professional choices in vocational training. Students with visual impairment are not able to make adjustments. At the same time, the studies are unfortunately pulled together at the Astangu Vocational Rehabilitation Centre. I believe that teaching intellectually disabled and sign - language learners on Astangu is justified. At the same time, young people with certain disabilities, such as those with reduced mobility, should not be taught in special schools, but should be involved in regular vocational schools. In both secondary and vocational education, there is a need to create opportunities to implement a state-funded adaptation year for learners with special educational needs, or pre-school course, which can also be called a year of orientation. It will be implemented during this academic year at the Tartu Vocational Education Centre. The duplication of education and social services in the case organisation of learners with special needs should also be completed and an individual changeover plan and individual job search plan should be piloted. Thirdly, I will touch very briefly on the subject of scholarships, which we discussed with Mr Nature. I agree that it is not about the level of education that a student with special needs learns, but about ensuring that his needs are covered and treated in the same way. The fourth and last point of attention or place of marking shall be the physical accessibility of educational establishments. Unfortunately, it's uneven. It is also necessary for the Ministry of Education and Research to pay more attention to this, although it must be acknowledged that accessibility issues fall within the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. In addition to the problem of physical access, we are lacking, as I have already pointed out, support specialists and there is a lack of suitable and modern school spaces. For example, when it comes to young people with intellectual disabilities, sometimes it may be necessary to find a place where they can relax, a so-called calming room, or smaller and quieter parts of the house, where noise is less than normal, etc. The involvement of young people with special needs in vocational training has already taken quite a step forward. But do we have reason to rest on our laurels? Obviously not, because we are all special and every special need also needs special attention and approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U124	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U125	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! As a former actor in this area, it still feels that something is unspoken and that perspective is not the same for everyone. A few pubes, however, from me, too. It must have been in 2006, when the Minister of Education, Mailis Reps, who is still the Minister of Education, made a happy statement that the period of occupation in vocational education has now ended. The money vessels had arrived from Europe, and just as we all had a clear opinion in the field of education, in the field of vocational education, that everything had to be done as much as possible, life was only going uphill, there were no threats. Since then, we still have very proud rooms, often very fancy equipment, but what we still don't have is learners. The number of students has fallen, although it has been more or less stable in recent years. The number of institutions has decreased threefold. The whole of society is immeasurably smarter and it should actually be reflected when it comes to vocational education. Optimising resources is one thing that has been quietly done, and it should also be called out loud. Duplicating, fragmentation - what is actually being dealt with - has been a major problem, but this should also be strongly emphasised. The reputation of vocational education. Of course, that's a Russian-era question. Indeed, on the one hand, the praise of vocational education is never enough, but it is clearly not enough. If all these fancy buildings and equipment have not been able to save a reputation, then there are important things yet. In my opinion, no one here today has talked about what was just a national priority, but I did not find it in the verbatim, not all the time being there, of the fact that the key issue is, in fact, breaking barriers between general education and vocational training. It's also about reputation. It is not a vocational school where people go and where there is more smoke in the yard than average, a separate world, but it is part of society and part of the education system also because there is synergy between upper secondary schools and vocational schools. Upper secondary schools receive very practical additives with the help of vocational schools and, on the contrary, upper secondary schools also raise general education levels. After all, part of the reputation of vocational schools is also due to the fact that there is thought to be only one construction and industrial work that many people cannot imagine doing. But if you look deeper into it, this profile is super-wide, from IT specialists to cleaners and horse-care guys. I think it should also be segmented away from the reputation that academically capable people actually receive a very decent education there when vocational education goes uphill, education that they can properly apply or enjoy in the most advanced sectors of the economy. As far as vocational schools are concerned, this is not just part of education; they still have a role in society as a whole. What has pricked me a little bit is that understanding... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U126	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U127	... that businesses are demanding from the state and the state is preparing and continuing to develop some kind of parallel factory network that provides professionals with a narrow profile. Real life isn't quite like that, but I think it's a big room for improvement. All entrepreneurs should feel, under the pressure of enormous labour shortages, that the only option is to keep in touch with vocational schools early, to take internships, to participate in an apprenticeship system, and to deny it, also to consider that it is often waged work. Put people on the payroll early and stop talking about tax incentives. I think it's a little simple to create incentives. It's more demoralizing. Everyone thinks if you don't pay the tax, it's like something's been given. In fact, everything should happen with the development of the system. These people are able to work and they are also taxpayers. What's it gonna do if we don't collect their taxes? In this case, we will simply have less money to improve our vocational education and training. That's a really, really, really attitude issue. Of course, there are also excellent examples. The last time I went to ABB, I heard that all the elements were as if there were an ideal cooperation between vocational schools and supporters. But this attitude should also reach small businesses. It's about OSKA, the Pathfinder, apprenticeships, Innove, the employer, some huge fragmentation. I think it has its own plus, which in itself shows that there are many actors and there are many connections between vocational education, economics and society. These are not necessarily obstacles, although generally the room for remediation by the state is likely to exist. Breaking the barrier between these worlds is, however, in my opinion, a good thing in itself. What shocked me during my practice, of course, when I looked at these curricula was how narrow and how prestigiously closing some specialty is. When a person goes to the labour market, I don't want to stigmatise any specialty, but basically, I don't have a specific employer to hire, I wonder if he doesn't know anything else. The problem is already purely a professional name, but also, of course, skills and adaptability. In short, today we should train people with adaptable and diverse skills. The world is changing so fast that there is no other choice. The state, entrepreneurs and learners, parents, should all together seamlessly merge this system, which works, but which is never too much to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U128	Laine Randjärv, please! Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U129	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! Good waitresses! First of all, I would also like to thank all those who have participated in the process of preparing today's debate on a very important national issue. I am pleased that the current chairman of the Committee on Culture took the proposal to deal with the issues in the field of vocational education which I, as chairman of the Committee on Culture, did about a year or more than a year ago, very passionately and meaningfully, and carried this matter forward. In short, such continuity in the Committee on Culture is extremely welcome and makes it feel good. There has been much talk today about practical and pragmatic issues in the field of vocational education. Vocational education relates to the fact that when a person graduates from vocational education, he is a master, he can do something with his hands, specifically prepare, set, build. But there are certainly a great many issues in the field of vocational education, the outcome of which cannot be weighed down every day. But you can hear them with your ear or see them with your eyes. I come to a subject that is close to my heart and I also asked the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. This concerns the preparation of musicians in vocational schools, or Eller and Otsa. Three schools are being put together: ballet school, music high school and Otsa school, and so-called schools of fine arts. How exactly is this education going to be there and whether they will continue to be a vocational school, it will indeed become clear in the near future. Eller's music school in Tartu will hopefully continue the same. It is positive that integrated curricula are actively sought, that, for example, together with Jaan Poska's upper secondary school, general education is held, while Eller's school provides vocational training. The minister didn't know exactly what would happen to those Eller graduates who didn't actually get the teacher's invitation. It is very sad and bad that it has not been thought of for a long time, because the reality is that these people are still going to teach at music schools, they are going to an education of interest. We also had a serious debate on this issue in the Committee on Culture recently with regard to the adoption of the draft law. And there's the question that there won't be any offspring. The problem is not only that Eller's school does not get this specific paper, but that people do not come to study there. But if people do not have to learn choir management or, for example, music pedagogy, then there are no teachers in schools who are able to learn the basics of music for the mudians or make them love our tradition of singing parties, which is about to be 150 years old. A few days ago, the Committee on Culture also had representatives of the professional association of choir leaders, and once again this professional topic was on the agenda. If one student is coming to Eller's or Ots's school course now, but there were 10 and 12 students years ago, this is a problem. It might seem like what's in it, one choir leader in front or behind. But if we don't have people to come to music schools, then we don't have people to go to the music and theatre academy. The Minister rightly said that the teaching profession, education or qualification should be awarded by a higher educational institution. I agree with that one hundred percent. But in fact, everyone doesn't want to go to college, everyone doesn't want to be a master and everyone doesn't want to do a doctorate. There is also a need for teachers who want to go to Abja Music School or Jõhvi Music School or Kärdla Music School. Of course, it is wonderful that those teachers who teach there now are mostly graduates. But a lot of people would like to go to school as a teacher after graduation from music school. So my appeal or the subject I stand for is that we also make changes in music schools. It's not just about choir leaders, it's about the same subject, it's about the trumpet teacher. The great teacher Aavo Ots, the trumpet teacher, has done everything he can to teach the entire Republic, from Võru to Virun, but that's no way to do it, people can't do it if there's so little of us. Which means that everything you learn in the middle should also be passed on and taught your skills. Very good interpreters come from music high school or Otsa School or Eller School graduates. Then why don't we use it enough? I very much hope that there will be feedback on such an exclamation mark or attention, and we will be able to resolve these matters in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research. Song festivals come to people's mind only every five years, or when there is trouble, if there is so much trouble, that the song festival grows over to a singing revolution, or if there is as much trouble as ever, at the beginning of everything, when it grew into a free song party to celebrate the peasants' release from serfdom. In fact, we remember it at moments like these. I think that we should think about this a little bit in peace right now, so that at some point we don't need to fight ideologically with characters who just step out and ask if suddenly we can go back to the fact that the party and the government are deciding which song to sing at one or another song party, like it was in between 50 years. I see that there are again such freaks that somebody has the right to start politically directing things. There is therefore a need for many good choir leaders who are keeping our singing party movement and tradition, and we must give them the opportunity to be invited in vocational training institutions as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-18_U130	I wish school leaders success and success! The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 1.28 p.m.
