ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 43 members of the Riigikogu are currently attending Question Time. The prime minister Jüri Ratas, Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, and Mikhail Korb, Minister of State Administration are in briefings. I will give an opportunity to put forward a more specific question for each of the key issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U2	The first questioner is Külliki Hatter and the question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U3	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister, hello! My question concerns draft 432 of the Act amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws resulting from the dissolution of the county government, which seeks to amend at least 68 laws in connection with the abolition of rural governments. Why has the government decided to put forward another cluster bill that concerns not only the reform of rural governments but also issues that are not at all relevant? I will mention only a few chapters with many non-observing sections: for example, environmental and land reform laws in Chapter 3, property reform in Chapter 5, etc. Why has such a course taken place? Who is the minister responsible for this area, or what is the new structural unit in government formation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu, also a good questioner! First of all, from Bill 432. I am very pleased that you are asking about this, because in today's plenary session of the Riigikogu, the same subject is being discussed as one item on the agenda. I say, first of all, that this is not a cluster bill of any kind. Second, only laws that contain or concern the duties of a rural elder have been changed. Therefore, changes not directly related to the subject matter have been excluded from this draft as an example of the Social Welfare Act, the reorganisation of replacement care, after the round of coordination. Some of the amendments needed a substantive transformation of the text, not just a replacement of words or terms. Let me give you some examples. If really rural governments disappear, some tasks go to ministries, such as the Ministry of Education and Research, supervision of educational institutions, supervision of family operations and examinations of civil status officers, appointment and supervision of county libraries for the Ministry of Culture, preparation and supervision of county plans for the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, the tasks are also transferred to local governments, such as the county centre, local government unit and civil status operations. For example, the joint task of local authorities is to ensure health promotion, well-being and security, cultural life, etc. You also asked whether the minister responsible for this area would come and who it would be. Certainly, the system must, above all, be flexible. At the same time, we do not see very often, but it happens that the office of ministers is changed. Above all, it is flexibility. The international organisation, the OECD, has also assessed this and expects the system to be more flexible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U5	Hatter, the question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U6	Thank you, good Chairman. Prime Minister, we absolutely, categorically disagree with your argument that this is not a cluster bill. But the local people from Pärnumaa approached us this morning on a different subject. Will Pärnu be what happened to Haapsalu, where the train connection disappeared? In fact, tomorrow, the government is discussing whether or not to order more Lelle-Pärnu cargo for at least 10 years. We are talking about EUR 17 million for investment so that train traffic can continue at normal speed. The Southwest Railways are ready to find these sums themselves. But here, it is the government that has a very large decision-making power. Does the government support the wishes of local people, or does politicians go along with a sudden change of mind?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U7	And there's actually another connection on the table that's been discussed a lot. I mean the air link to Pärnu, the investments at Pärnu airport. The region of Pärnu, as a tourist destination, is also under discussion, and the government is discussing this. Now, you also brought the Haapsalu railway into your question. I think it was a very bad step when the railway between Tallinn and Haapsalu was taken up. We are now working on rebuilding the first phase. And I dare call it not Haapsalu, but the Rohuküla railroad. But the Rice Family-Turba connection could be built as the first stage in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U8	Thank you for this question, which concerns 432 of SE's side-by-side issues. Now Pärnu. The government certainly supports three directions very strongly in Pärnu's case. These are for us to have a decent, fast, operational rail connection to Ülemiste-Pärnu. And we know this today that if the Riigikogu agrees to ratify the Rail Baltic Treaty, this association will be formed. There are different estimates of whether the race will last 45 or 43 minutes, but in any case the race will be very fast. According to today's forecasts, there will be a rapid connection between Ülemiste and Pärnu by 2025. In order to start preparing this connection, proper railway stations will be built in Tallinn and Pärnu in the coming years. Then, really, this 25-year talk about Via Baltica, I think you've placed your focus in the right place, and we haven't been taken anywhere. There is a need for clear, concrete steps, and steps can be taken through investments. I assure you that the real construction of Via Baltica in the coming years will be heavily on the table today.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U9	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! We will come back from the railroad for a moment to the current question and draft 432. When rural governments disappear, a lot of tasks are transferred to local governments, i.e. they go down. When we talk about social welfare and other social services, which are the tasks of local government, the municipality provides services on the basis of its own regulation. So far, rural government monitored the quality, availability and justification of these services. Now we are also giving supervision of this activity to the local government level. Don't you think it's like a little conflict I'm making, I'm making my own decisions and I'm doing my own surveillance? And then we tell the citizens that if you don't like the result of this monitoring, please go to court. Do you think this is the right way to go and the smartest approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U11	Good questioner! I certainly do not agree with the approach that if we give a task to the local level from rural governments, we will give it down. I don't support that attitude. I think the state and municipalities are partners. It's not like there's one big boss upstairs, now the governor, and the municipalities are subordinate. I certainly do not support this approach. But this aspect of supervision is important. In any case, monitoring must be well established, well implemented. I am absolutely convinced that even better supervision than chasing the sections of the law is when local residents tell the municipality what level of social welfare and other services must be. I follow the principle that very many of the leaders of the municipalities that have already joined have said: this level is chosen according to the best level of the municipality to be joined. Quality must not fall. And I think that, in this case too, this principle applies very firmly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U12	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U13	The next question is asked by Martin Helme to Mikhail Korb, Minister of State Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U14	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. When the administrative reform law was passed, it was said that the cost of implementing the administrative reform was about EUR 80 million. It was during the last government when the whole side of the app was still in the air. I have this question: has this amount been clarified by now? If it is, how big is it and what are the main cost lines? We know that one major cost line is compensating for the redundancies of current local government leaders, and I would like to know how much this has cost us or will cost us and what other large cost lines are.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U15	Good questioner, for now, the picture is really much clearer, the numbers can be added together. When we talk about the total cost of reform, there are several sources of expenditure, namely four. The largest of these amounts is the payment of voluntary merger support initiated by councils, which is currently estimated at EUR 64.5 million. This includes EUR 7 million, which is paid out as a grant to municipalities, which are made up of more than 11000 inhabitants. Another major type of expenditure, but of course not so high, is the activities involved in carrying out the administrative reform process: the salaries of coordinators, studies and the costs incurred by rural governments. Here we can talk about a sum of EUR 679000. Municipalities have also made some of the costs they will be compensated for during the preparation of the administrative reform. This amount is 70000.85000. In the next phase, EUR 1.2 million has been earmarked for municipalities, linked to the compulsory integration phase. In total, the administrative reform is estimated to cost EUR 66 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U16	Martin Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U17	Thank you. I understand that these are the costs that have already been incurred. Still, I would like to know if the redundancies of the local government leaders are within this 64.5 million. Or where are they and how much is it? And has the abolition of rural governments been included in this expenditure, or does it come separately? How much is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U18	No, these expenses have not yet been made. The point is that the grant is paid in stages: the first year is 25%, the next year is 50% and the third year is 25%. This is the estimated expenditure which is planned for the budget and which will be incurred only in the future. As far as redundancy benefits are concerned, this amount is EUR 1 to 1.2 million, to be paid after the merger of the municipalities. And the last question was, sorry? The abolition of rural governments is a separate issue; it has nothing to do with administrative reform. It is a little early to talk about its estimated cost, too, but it will certainly be announced.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U19	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U20	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Due to changes to the Administrative Reform Act, the role of Riigi Kinnisvara AS, which is under the administration of the Ministry of Finance, is increasing as a number of assets are transferred to the administration of the Ministry of Finance. The minister is the general meeting of Riigi Kinnisvara AS. Now my question. In this hall, we have repeatedly talked about the problem of Patarei Prison. Patarei Prison is not an investment object, unless the roof is repaired, it is not invested in the roof. Nature played its part in speeding up the roof, but no decisions have yet been made. When will the Patarei prison receive the necessary funds to get the building on top of the roof so that our cultural value is not destroyed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U21	Good questioner, I would especially like to thank you for this question. According to my memory, you raised the roof problem about a month ago in this very hall, and already then the public limited company should have responded and paid more attention to what you said. This message and information were also passed on to them. As for what has happened now, the money has been allocated and the roof can be repaired in such a way that the building does not fall apart. Degradation can be stopped. As far as the fate or future of the Patarei prison is concerned, I assure you that this is the subject of our consultation almost every week. We are discussing this step by step, which could be further action. I think the whole government's common goal is to have the prison restored and repaired. Unfortunately, we have not found any public authority that would be interested in moving into this building. It is therefore difficult to say which institution or state office could allocate money to restore the building. Since, unfortunately, there is no answer to this question, opportunities for cooperation between the state and the private sector must be sought. This is the direction we are discussing right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U22	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U23	Question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U24	Prime Minister! Looks a little bad to you guys. I see that half of Estonian employers assess the impact of the government's activities on the business environment as negative. And I read the opinion of the Confederation of Employers that tax and fiscal policies should be fair and with clear objectives, derogatory success and redistributing money are not an incentive to make an effort and to improve competitiveness. The current government's tax policy is economically short-sighted and leads the country to a dead end. If we put all these tax increases, the advance taxation of credit institutions, the excise duty on packaging, the increase in gas excise duty, the sweet tax, the road tax, etc., then the real question is why are you doing this? Why do you destroy the confidence and faith of Estonian entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U25	Good questioner! I think you have read this question from an article published today in the Eesti Päevaleht. Point 1: As compared to December, I believe that entrepreneurs have assessed very little more highly, but better the entrepreneurship-friendly nature of the government. Point 2: When comparing, you always have to think about what to compare with. Compared to what the previous good government has done, the assessment is much better. That's a good one! You're asking why we're doing this. I'll start by saying that the government's tax plan is one whole. None of the taxes taken separately are related to any particular cost. With the changes we support growth, we raise people's incomes and we also try to promote healthy and environmentally conscious behaviour. The government makes a clear contribution to the welfare of Estonian people, for example by raising the tax-free minimum to 500 euros. What does that mean? This means that the effective tax rate on labour will fall by 0.74% of gross domestic product next year. This, too, is perhaps one of the reasons why entrepreneurs are now assessing the situation better than it was, say, six months ago. Secondly, I would point out that we certainly want to cut red tape. I would like to highlight, for example, the development of a business account concept to improve the tax environment, with the aim of making small business more attractive and simplifying reporting. Point 3 is, of course, the abolition of certain tax increases, such as the abolition of VAT and excise duties on diesel by accommodation establishments at the beginning of next year. These are just a few examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U26	Hanno Pevkur, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U27	I was not surprised by your answer, Prime Minister. It could be assumed that you would read out these points, although I asked instead why you would do it, all these tax increases and so on. But I am simply saying the fact: in December 2015, 34% of businesses considered the government's activities to be negative, and now 49% thinks it is. So, in this sense, your argument is not out of line, you said that the previous government was judged worse. Secondly, when you listen to the employer's assessment, employers say that the government plans to spend a lot of money on the basis of a growing tax burden, but they do not contribute to long-term economic growth. Betting the budget down and borrowing the government will also tell the majority of businesses that the tax burden is likely to increase further in the future. Maybe you're taking the opportunity today to send a message to the entrepreneurs in front of this big hall. What do you say? It's nice to have somebody's money, but what do you say to entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U28	I think that the topic of the tax burden on Estonia that you have raised is, of course, important. If the 2015 figures are taken, we can see that Estonia's tax burden is lower than that of 28 European Union countries, including the euro area countries. I think the direction to keep this trend is very correct. Now, you're a clever politician: you're comparing the government's estimates of the times where they are most favorable to you. I meant the state of the government six months ago. But that's it. What have entrepreneurs actually said? Businesses have said, firstly, that the income of people who receive low or average wages must be increased. What's the government doing for it? The government is reforming income tax to this end by raising the tax-free minimum. Perhaps not enough has been said in this Chamber, but all those people in Estonia who earn 1200 euros or less after 1 January 2018 in our society will win 64 euros every month. What has Eesti Pank said? In fact, Eesti Pank has said that the Estonian economy needs more investment. Short-term or long-term? It is true that the government and Eesti Pank have different opinions here. Investments need to be made in principle. Next year, Estonia's biggest investments are all over history: 1.4 billion will be strategic investments in very specific areas, such as information technology, international tourism and conference centre, infrastructure, both road and rail infrastructure, as well as defence investments, housing fund investments. These have all been put on the table by business organisations, and the government is taking steps to implement them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U29	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U30	Thank you. First of all, the fact is that most of these investments were already included in the previous RES and a large part of them are carried out with the support of euro money. So it certainly cannot justify taking out a loan. If we compare how much you will borrow and to what extent you will let the budget down and how much additional investments will be made, these are completely different orders of magnitude. But it was a fact-finding exercise. I have listened to entrepreneurs, too, and I think they say that tax increases and new taxes are intolerable. But let's put such subjective assessments aside and take it from the facts. If we look at the previous RES that the previous government presented a year ago, the long-term objective was that Estonia's tax burden would be 33.5% of GDP. The RES, prepared by your government, has set a target in one year for a tax burden of 36% of GDP. This means half a billion every year in addition to the burden on the people of Estonia. As a person who studied the economy, can you assess how this extra burden affects economic growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U31	Thank you for your question. As I said, I believe that the tax burden in Estonia should not increase beyond the average of the European Union, let alone the euro area. Next, no, the investments you mentioned were not in the previous government. I did not find defence investments anywhere, for example, on which the current government has said that we want to invest 60 million more. Well, there weren't any! Find where you want them. They weren't there! Forward, International Conference Center. We all know that we have always underestimated one very important sector in Estonia and therefore there are no international conferences in Estonia. I was looking for it in your RES. Well, it wasn't anywhere. Now it exists, the International Tourism and Conference Centre is coming. The city hall will be fixed. You're asking why we're doing this. Five reforms were already under way for a very long time, such as health reform, pension reform, administrative reform. True, it's no use for me to decorate myself with foreign feathers. Taavi Rõivas' government took very important steps to get the administrative reform going. But there was no health reform, no pension reform, no agricultural reform. And, of course, this main objective is that the people of Estonia feel more confident here every day that their net income will increase. The government has agreed that we will increase the tax-free minimum from EUR 180 to EUR 500. The same 64 extra euros per month helps the vast majority of people in work. It was just a matter of finding solutions to unsolved issues and making decisions. Here I congratulate the government partners that five major reforms have actually been resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U32	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U33	A question for the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U34	Mr. Minister of Justice! One of the official tasks of county elders as high officials has been administrative supervision of the activities of local authorities. I looked at the reform of the cluster law, which comes in place when there are no more country elders, and I have to admit I didn't understand. Couldn't find any officials who would be transferred to this task. They said that this would go to ministries, which for me is completely incomprehensible: not just to one particular ministry, but to everyone or almost everyone. Perhaps you could explain what will happen after 1 January to the administrative supervision of this country's elders?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U35	The general principle of the new draft law, which concerns the administrative supervision of the activities of the local authorities so far, is that the Ministry of Justice will assume the authority of administrative supervision from the beginning of next year. The Ministry of Justice exercises administrative supervision over the legality of administrative acts of local government units. This is clearly defined in § 753 of the relevant draft law. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for monitoring the legality and rationality of the use of state assets in the use or possession of local government units. These are general administrative supervision tasks that will be carried out by these two ministries instead of the county governor in the future. In addition, there are a number of different types of administrative supervision, for example in the fields of education and social affairs. These tasks are carried out by the Ministries of Industry. In general, they have also done so under current law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U36	George Adams, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U37	Mr. Minister of Justice! Looks like there's a lot of confusion in both your head and your draft laws with the same supervision. In different contexts, it means a lot of different things. Perhaps it would be wise to distinguish them. Apparently, so-called sectoral supervision is something other than statutory administrative supervision. But the question I have is, what is it that the Ministry supervises? So who is this Ministry, and how is this supervision going to take place inside him?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U38	The Ministry is the authority of the executive power of the State, and within the Ministry of Justice, the entity to be set up will be able to act in accordance with these functions, as this law, if the legislator decides to make that choice, provides. Once this bill is processed in Parliament, the Ministry will certainly form this unit and prepare the application in such a way that this supervision can be properly realised. But now the question of whether there is confusion about the basic concepts and general competences of national administrative supervision. I mean, if there's any confusion, it's a mess in the law. The provisions on the substantive regulation of this supervision have been precisely transposed from the current law, and only the name of the supervisory authority has been replaced. And this is done by the Ministry of Justice instead of the county government, more specifically the County Elder.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U39	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U40	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! However, this remains a little vague in terms of the supervisory function of ministries, as both are political decision-makers. The Ministry is the creator of politics and is led by a political person. Local authorities operate according to the political body, the local council's political decisions. Can't there be a conflict of interest here? Depending on who is a minister in one ministry or another, he may maliciously initiate supervision of the activities of a competitor. Why has the government not considered giving supervisory functions to a more neutral state office, such as the National Audit Office? In the Commission, Minister Korb mentioned that it was only the institution of the Chancellor of Justice, but it was not stopped. Were other options considered in the government or in the Ministry of Justice, which analysed this draft above all?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U41	It was not considered, only this institution named by Mikhail Korb. As regards whether any kind of supervision will be abused on the basis of a political or ideological attitude, I would like to stress that this administrative supervision, which is now being carried out by the county governor and will be carried out in the future by the relevant ministry, is merely a monitoring of legality. It is not the case that a procedure is initiated for the mere verification of rationality and it is said that an administrative act should be repealed. And I would like to stress that this supervision is in line with the principles of the European Charter for Local Government, both in the current law and in the future. This means that supervision is carried out in such a way that if a specific municipal act does not comply with a formal requirement or is unlawful in substance, the municipality must bring that act into compliance with the law or regulation. If it does not do so, the next step in supervision is one that is not built on the principle of proportionality. It is not the case that the Ministry runs a subordinate local government in no way! This is the external supervision of this internal subordinate, in which case the Ministry will be able to refer the matter to the Administrative Court under supervision. As an independent administrative court, it decides whether or not a specific act was unlawful.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U42	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U43	Next is the question of Mart Helme to the Minister of Public Administration, Mikhail Korb. Please, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is known that there has been a problem with the city of Keila, which the government wants to coercive with the surrounding rural municipalities. At the same time, Keila City Council has taken a very firm decision that they do not need or wish to be forced to join. There has also been a public survey, which, according to my data, was attended by 45... % of electoral residents of Keila City who do not want Keila city to be joined by surrounding municipalities. Also, according to the parameters set, the City of Keila should not be included in the list of compulsory connections. Can you explain to us why the government is so harshly trying to force Keila's city to join the municipalities that Keila's residents and self-government bodies do not want to join?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U45	Thank you, dear questioner. That's a very good question. I have already explained these views to the public, and I am ready to do it again. I think it's a little wrong to look at Keila's town separately in this context. In fact, administrative reform is a major process that takes place throughout Estonia, where different municipalities join each other. And next to the city of Keila, there are rural municipalities that do not meet 5,000 criteria today. In particular, they are Keila Municipality, Padise, Vasalemma and Paldiski, who do not meet the 5000 criteria. And the government had to make a decision about these parishes, either to join in one direction or in the other. The government held a long discussion on this issue and considered it to be a very important area to be resolved. I'll bring you a parallel from the other side. In the county of Tartu, the municipality of Luunja has been proposed to join the city of Tartu. This is, in substance, exactly the same proposal. There is one municipality that does not meet the 5 000 population criteria required by law, which has been adopted in this Chamber, and it is proposed to combine it with another, larger rural municipality, which already fulfils this criterion. I would put an equal sign between these two situations and say that, in both cases, the government acts on the basis of the best intention to carry out the administrative reform and to form strong local authorities that will ensure a better life for the population.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U46	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U47	Thank you, Minister, but you are not convinced, and you are not convinced on many points. First of all, it is completely inappropriate to start giving an example from the other end of Estonia, the context of which is quite different from that of the particular case we are talking about. Secondly, the city of Keila has almost 10,000 inhabitants, and if the municipalities around it have already agreed to join, the total number of inhabitants of these municipalities will be approximately 13000. Therefore, neither these merged municipalities nor Keila require any compulsory merger. Both entities meet the criteria. Why are you misleading the public?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U48	Good questioner! There is no way to mislead the public. I start with the fact that the city of Tartu is a city with 100,000 inhabitants and meets the criterion very well. The recommended government criterion is 11000 inhabitants. But now a little bit of other reasons why the city of Keila was decided to join their municipalities. Unfortunately, those municipalities that you mentioned had not submitted their accession agreement to the government by 1 January 2017. To say that they reached an agreement or made a decision to join is completely wrong. But with regard to the reasons for this decision, Keila is the centre of this area, where public transport is concentrated, and the inhabitants of the region are moving towards the centre. In addition, the Keila Municipality Government decided to support the Government of the Republic's proposal to unite with one another in a municipality and one city, finding that the arguments put forward by the government are correct and that the government's proposed direction of accession is appropriate. I am convinced that the government's proposal is legitimate and that the arguments are also strong. Of course, there is currently a struggle between different opinions. You can very often see a situation where local government leaders direct the opinion of local residents in one direction or another. Where municipalities join voluntarily, there is usually the support of residents. If local government leaders are fighting administrative reform, then of course the residents will also be concentrated behind them. It is easier for local authorities to carry this fight and to turn the situation in their favour. This approach is neither prospective nor statesmanly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U49	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In general, everything you do with these accession schemes is quite obvious. The various parties to the government coalition are probably playing a major role in gaining the best possible position in local elections rather than achieving an optimal result in one place or another in a broader sense. It's as simple as that. This also applies to the Alutaguse, it concerns the question of Dog-Rock, etc. And I'm really sorry about that. But the question is very simple: why do you ignore the results of local polls and the will of the local people?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U51	Good questioner! I cannot answer the question why we ignore, because the government has not yet taken into account the results of the polls because we have not discussed them. There's only one case where the government has conducted a survey. This was not due to the legal framework, but the government itself came up with the initiative. This was organised in four rural areas in South Estonia, the so-called Setomaa rural municipality. At that time, the government made a decision based on how people voted, what choice they made. This result is also known to you. However, this result is not yet complete. All these situations will be discussed by the government after local authorities submit their documents and materials to the Government of the Republic. This will take place after 15 May and then the government will have two months to complete all decisions on compulsory mergers and decide whether to complete the merger or not. Certainly all polls are discussed by the government and do not ignore any polls during its debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U52	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U53	Lauri Luik asks the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. Please, Lauri Swan!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U54	Good Urmas! We have built remarkable success stories in Estonia in cooperation with the IRL over the years, but you have unfortunately started to break them quite diligently in the government over the last six months. A simple and functioning tax system, for example, which is being replaced by a more complex and unfair graduated income tax, or a balanced budgetary principle, which we have based on and which is being replaced by a bottom-down budget shift, and finally an e-Estonia success story, which you have started to undermine by shortening the e-election period. Shortening the e-election period is of symbolic significance for Estonia and it will certainly not be overlooked outside Estonia. Please tell me why you are doing this and why you have started to break Estonia's values to date.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U55	Dear Minister of Justice, please fit in two minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U56	... then tell him it's not appropriate. I'm sorry, but it was such a heated question that encouraged me to enter the debate. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U57	Great, great, thank you, Minister of Justice!!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U58	The first question concerned the tax system. There's nothing to say. IRL promised a tax-free minimum of EUR 500; you promised a tax-free minimum of EUR 300. We were in the government together, but then we couldn't establish the model we proposed. Now I am glad that we can do this: on 1 January 2018, our election promise will be fulfilled. This means improving people's incomes. Believe me, I believe that if more money is left in the hands of a working person, it is both morally reasonable and actually positive in terms of the competitiveness of society and the country as a whole, and not vice versa. The second question concerned IT. No, we do not break Estonia's values. Absolutely not! We are talking about broadband investments of EUR 20 million and additional IT investments that we have agreed this year: the new government will contribute EUR 10 million. On the contrary, the greater contribution of the public sector in the IT field must also be boosted rather than cut down. Certainly no one in the government has said anything that we are questioning the legitimacy of e-elections, the modernity of this solution. If any Member does this, of any party, I think that this is a poor story, which is borne out of conjunctival political considerations, and it certainly cannot have any place. On the contrary, I think we need to further develop the e-election system and achieve that it is also possible to choose with the support of IT solutions on election day. We should achieve that we have an e-election register so structured that it doesn't matter whether you're in Kuressaare or in Tallinn or in Tartu or you're going to choose a local station if you don't want to choose on the Internet. You are not related to your place of residence in the same way as the serf of your place of residence.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U60	So this uniformity in the implementation of e-elections...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U61	... and in the case of other elections, there is nothing to do with us questioning e-elections. If anyone does this...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U62	Let's take these steps, make these IT solutions and move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U63	Thank you, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U64	Yes, but the fiery question will continue, and then the minister will be able to answer again, only two minutes. Please, Lauri Swan!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U65	Thank you. I will continue on the same subject of e-election. On our draft, with which we want to extend the e-election period from seven to ten days, you said in your reply that in this case the principle of uniformity of elections is not guaranteed. As you yourself mentioned, your coalition partners from the Central Party have even said that e-elections are not secure. In our opinion, however, there is no substantive argument to suggest that e-elections are not secure or that compliance with the principle of uniformity of elections is not guaranteed. If you follow your logic, e-elections should be prohibited at all, rather than shortening the period, as you wish to do. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U66	Do I have to take this? It was like a position. But if I put an end to this statement, I say so. The Government of the Republic took an unambiguous, clear position in its opinion, which also touched on this first draft, in my opinion, it was 400 and 401, as did the Siamese twins, and in which it made clear: e-elections are a modern and secure way of realising democracy. There's no question! On the contrary, it is our job to promote and encourage other countries to do the same. There's nothing to be afraid of. Now, following the principle of uniformity does not depend on whether a person is voting on the Internet, whether he has mobility problems, and whether he is asking to bring home the ballot box, or whether he is going to the polling station himself, or whether he is on a cargo ship, and the captain is organizing an election, so that is the possibility. That has nothing to do with it. It is a question of a cycle during which choices are made. The Constitution still says that election day is one day. If we were to do a political debate and write down in the Constitution that we have the month of the election just as there is a month of vodka, just as there is a month of mud or hay, there could be an election month, then we could make this change. The fact is that we have reached the conclusion of the last elections that no more voters cast their vote not on election day, but made a choice on another day. That is the question of the uniformity of the elections, of how long that time can be extended. You say that if we do not support ten days, we will be opposed to modern digital solutions. But I ask why so little. Why not two weeks, why not three weeks, or why not so that we have the elections in March and the day after that begins the registration of new candidates? Four years of election! Perhaps, in the development of mankind, solutions will also be reached that are, in fact, a constant voter assessment. Perhaps the composition of Parliament will also change constantly. But it doesn't fit into the current constitutional framework.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U67	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! It seems symptomatic that some previous coalition partners forget that they have been in government for a very long time. They want to deny everything they had before. I am also thinking about your remark on the increase in the tax-free minimum. Instead, the IRL implemented for one year a very complex income tax refund system for low-paid people, which is expensive for the state. But what I want to ask is: why is the party that has been prepared to cut into the constitution, basically to make the requirement for budgetary balance, is moving in the direction that the entrepreneurs say here from the Riigikogu's remoteness, specifically, did Sten Tamkivi, that if we play the e-elections and our e-state, then we are one simple, ordinary Eastern European country? Do you really not understand that every little nuance that is also linked to the balance of the budget in the e-world is playing down the very important strengths and values of our country, which could and should be pursued by politics?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U69	Yes, I think that politicians should not damage the things that represent Estonia's success stories. Some politicians in the Centre Party have said that they have voted for them by voters who do not use e-solutions, that e-elections are suspicious. But it should not be the same for you today that the proposed change means the end of the Estonian e-Education History and so on. These are myths, such fake news must not have a place when we talk about the strategic interests of our country. That could be the deal we all made. Now the question of the tax system. The complicated system that some people were paid back this year was the sparrow in the hand we caught. And I'm sorry, this model wasn't the IRL, it was you. We found a compromise. In every government, compromises have to be made. People got that money back, almost 90,000 people could have used it. Did these people do something wrong? Did we do something wrong? People were working, and they were left with more money for the job. Let me put it this way: our original model has always been that we make the tax system so that it makes sense. Now we have done it as we promised, and it is not to be ashamed or afraid. Believe me, if there is a choice between lower income tax rates for people or a simpler system for IT and civil servants, I will not protect the state of officials. I would say that officials should work to keep more money in people's hands. Let's not take such an attitude that nothing can be changed because it's comfortable. There should be no place for comfortable management.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U70	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U71	Artur Talvik's question to Minister of State Administration Mikhail Korb. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U72	Good minister! The municipality of Koeru and Rakke has set a precedent that has not happened during the administrative reform. They decided to join each other after they had received the recommendation to join the other municipalities in accordance with the "old" administrative division of the Estonian territory. My question to you now is this: do you, as a minister, brutally intend to banish this love association or will you defend them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U73	Thank you, good questioner! Nothing breaks true love, as they say. But as a minister, I cannot answer that question because such decisions are not made by the Minister. Such decisions are made by the government. Indeed, the content of your question is very correct: by 1 January 2017, two municipalities did not complete the association agreement between Koeru and Rakkekke, but they did not start negotiations in the last days of December. The two councils have now agreed and approved the merger, but unfortunately they did so at such a stage that it did not comply with the law. Now we need to negotiate a proposal made by the government. I'm so sorry that this great love came about so late. If this had come about earlier, there wouldn't have been a problem. Now the government really proposed to connect Koeru to Järva municipality and Rakke to Väike-Maarja municipality. And, unfortunately, even after accession, these two municipalities would not fulfil the target of 5 000 inhabitants. I think this is a difficult problem that the government will be discussing together. I'm sure I'll pass on all the information to the government, as it's been given to me. I would certainly like to support the efforts and desire of the two local authorities to join, but we must follow the law that has been passed in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U74	Arthur Talvik, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U75	Thank you. The legal advisors of dogs and Rakke say that there is no conflict with the law that they have acted according to the law. On the other hand, looking at the forced alliances you were talking about here, you seem to be making the inhabitants of two rural municipalities very sad in this move, because you are adding them to the party-political division. It is obvious here that IRL does not want to lose its strong position in Järvamaa, I mean Kaia Iva, and that means that Koeru would be joining Lääne-Virumaa instead. And, of course, your party companion, Siret Kotka from Väike-Maarja, would like to make her municipality bigger.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U76	Good questioner! I am a little concerned about the signs that you are trying to make on this issue and what your colleagues are trying to add to all this on other issues. I assure you that accessions cannot consider any political arguments or be based on political logic, because the emerging regions are totally new, there will be new teams and it is the electoral alliances that have good opportunities to take part in the elections. I think it is rather speculation, and such political rhetoric, there are no substantive arguments behind it. It is not possible to say that one party or another receives political advantages in one region or another. This is completely wrong, and there is no basis for this kind of talk. All decisions have been considered, thought through with a view to making the community work better. Yes, the desire of the two local governments to join is an argument, but I well remember how we discussed very seriously in this hall with you and your colleagues about changing the border of Pärnu County. You were very clear that the boundaries of the county should not be changed. But now I'm reading out of your message that you really want the county border to be changed. I think it is the same thing that you sometimes accuse me of: one situation is based on one principle and the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U77	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U78	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I'm coming back on top of the coercion of the city of Keila, but I don't rule out other municipalities either. If there are no diplomatic relations between the government and the municipality, the court and other levels are brought into play, and the Supreme Court decides, for example, that the decisions of the government are not legitimate, but that local government elections have already taken place. A new council has been elected. What is the government's position in this case? What will you do after the local elections if the administrative court or the Supreme Court has said that the government has been wronged by coercion?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U79	Good questioner! I think your question also contains an answer. You were very right to say that 'the new council has been elected'. Believe me, no settlement in Estonia will be left unruly, without legally elected representatives of the people! Elections will take place in every new local government, elections will be held. I admit that last week we had a working meeting with the Chancellor of Justice and the President of the Election Commission of the Republic, where we went through all the dates and scenarios that are possible in the context of the challenge, point by point, from the point of view, if a local authority wanted to obstruct the process. I assure you, the situation is under control. We have exchanged views and are making sure that the elections are conducted and a new administrative law system has been established in Estonia since the elections. No one has to admit they've done anything wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U80	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U81	Dear Riigikogu, we will begin the Wednesday session. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U82	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, There seem to be eight of them here for the members of the Reform Party, there is an inquiry to Prime Minister Ratas on the topic 'Estonian Foreign Economic Policy Course'. We have noted that a number of initiatives taken by the previous government, aimed at reviving the Estonian economy and increasing export capacity, have either disappeared in some way or have been completed. For example, the Estonian network, which was to be developed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and approved by the government, and the concept of Team Estonia, which was approved by the government in 2015. We know that the group of economic experts that worked for the Prime Minister was disbanded by the government. However, we now noticed with surprise that when some members of the Riigikogu went to Moscow with businessmen, the chairman of the Economic Commission said that the fact that Estonian politicians have come here with Estonian entrepreneurs is the first step to show us as one Team Estonia, where politicians and entrepreneurs are together. Our question is basically whether this Team Estonia, which is now in the process of shaping, will develop relations with Russia as a new direction? What happened to this original Team Estonia? What about the Estonian network? Is this all for the recovery of the Estonian economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U83	Government representative Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U84	Honourable Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the Package Tax Act, the Packaging Act and the Environmental Charges Act. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U85	I have adopted one draft and one inquiry and will continue to deal with them under the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! Currently 85 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session. In order to clarify the agenda so much that, in the case of draft 412, which is the third on our agenda, the chairman of the committee, Mikhail Stalnukhin, will make a presentation on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U86	Let's go! First reading is the first reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Animal Protection Act and the Nature Conservation Act, which was initiated by the Riigikogu members Barbi Pilvre, Marianne Mikko, Hardi Volmer, Hannes Hanso, Rainer Vakra, Inara Luigas, Heimar Leng, Lauri Luige, Heidy Purga, Eiki Nestor, Oudekki Loone, Jaanus Karilaidi, Eerik-Niles Kross and Liina Kersna. The initiating waitress is Barbi Pilvre. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good animal rights! Once upon a time, our ancestors covered themselves with animal skins from the cold and killed cats burning in witches' heads. Our relationship with animals is constantly changing over time from hunting animals to domestication and housing, from zoos to animal testing, from pet hobbies to business and from today's intensive farming. At the same time, our knowledge of the nature of animals, the needs of different species and recently the rights of animals has constantly grown. Animals are an object of research in different disciplines, such as zoology, ethology, agriculture. Animals are also a subject of philosophy, especially ethics. Within the framework of reducing the suffering of weaker creatures and respecting their rights, protection of animals has also developed in Estonia on a value-based basis, for ethical reasons, and is becoming increasingly popular. Humans have still caused suffering for animals to meet their needs, but today we are right to ask: when is the exploitation of animals for human existence justified or even inevitable, and when is this not necessary? I am not going to discuss here today the topics that distinguish people from animals, whether the soul, language, feelings, erotics, fear of death. I am convinced that no spiritually healthy person wants suffering for an animal. If it is necessary to execute an animal for the sake of man's life, it must be done painlessly and with as little suffering as possible to both the animal and the executioner. However, if an animal does not need to be tortured for human existence, such as being caged in order to get his coat, then that action must be stopped. What has ever been the custom, but is no longer fit for purpose, is to be written down in history. The production of fur in Estonia is not a traditional national activity that needs to be preserved as a relict, as a memory of ancient times. Today's debate in this large Chamber of Parliament is the result of long progress and work. The issue of banning bear breeding in Estonia has not reached this far before. The world and our perceptions of right and wrong have changed. The ban on fur farming in Estonia has been discussed at least since 2009 by animal welfare organisations, greens and social democrats. I would remind you that the Social Democratic Party has only included the ban on bear breeding in Estonia from parliamentary parties. Today, however, the subject of fur animals is not a matter for one party: 14 Members from the SDE, the Centre Party and the Reform Party have submitted a draft for the cessation of fur livestock farming on a value-based, ethical basis, regardless of party membership. We talk a lot about the image of countries today. The pure nature and development of IT technology are considered to be Estonia's mark. Yesterday we listened to the highly technology-driven, positive and liberal vision of the future of Estonia by the IT company Sten Tamkivi. Estonia is innovative in many areas. At the same time, in the social context, in the plan of human society and values, we have a lot of room for improvement. The gap between a technology-minded avant-garde and an old age in society is at times immense. In addition to the development of the IT sector, the level of development of society is also discussed, for example, by the attitude towards foreigners, close-relationships violence, same-sex coexistence, as well as animal rights. There are also major differences in development between countries and Estonia is not an exemplary country in this respect. But we now have all the prerequisites for moving in this direction and for getting better. Bearstock farming has been banned in the last 10 to 15 years in Great Britain, Austria, Croatia, the Netherlands, Macedonia, Brazil, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovenia, part of Germany, partly Switzerland, Denmark, Sweden, New Zealand and the USA. The strengthening of welfare requirements has almost ceased the rearing of fur animals in Italy and Switzerland. The political issue is the ban on fur farms in Belgium, Germany, the Czech Republic and also Norway. I would stress that the draft Law on the Protection of Animals, which we are discussing today, concerns only or mainly the welfare of animals kept for fur purposes, and its aim is to stop the rearing of fur animals in Estonia during a transitional period of ten years. The draft does not concern animals or birds which are reared for meat purposes and whose skin or feathers are also used, such as sheep, cattle, horses, ostriches, rabbits, chickens, turkeys, ducks and geese. The draft does not concern the wearing of existing coats; it is not intended to be prohibited. Nor does the draft concern the acquisition of animal skins by hunting. I will make these clarifications, just in case, because such a need has emerged when discussing the subject with colleagues. Now about the fur animals affected by the bill. There are currently 200,000 fur animals in Estonia that are foxes, some and chinchillas. A hundred people are occupied in this area, so this is a marginal form of enterprise. The largest farm is Balti Karuskat AS, owned by Finns, with about 70 jobs. The Finnish industry accounts for 90.95% of the Estonian fur industry. During the ten-year transitional period foreseen by the draft law, this ten-year period has been followed by the Netherlands, and this is also the practice of other countries, Estonian fur livestock production can gradually contract its production. For example, AS Balti Karuskkint can still grow and skin 1.5 million animals at current production volumes. Why should this form of business or farming be stopped if people in small rural areas still get jobs and furs go for export? You might also ask a spiteful question that if the job is in the country, whether it doesn't matter what the job is, as long as the job is in the country. What is the content and ethics of this work? How does this affect a worker's mental state? In an interview with the Estonian Express, the veterinarian Salme Mitt, who was considered one of the creators of the Estonian fur industry, has discussed the dark sides of the fur industry and doubts about the ethical aspects of his life's work. Man hasn't figured out what it means when he takes one animal living in the wild and puts it in a cage. Salme Mitt has also surprisingly admitted that taking a breath of animals is very unpleasant. He also admits that as a veterinarian, he took the breath of animals by injecting, while the gas cisterns and foxes are being killed by a certain device, where the flow is flowing from one end and the animal dies slowly as a result of the electric shock. I recommend that you read what was said in the Estonian Express on 22 September 2016 by a person who brought to Estonia, among other things, chinchillas, who has led the Estonian Bear Farmers' Association and has recently been a consultant on bear breeding. By the way, Mr Mitt has sent a letter to Ivari Padar, the previous head of the Rural Commission, on the subject of bear breeding, regretting that he came into this area of life. The social impact of the cessation of fur farming so much that current workers, middle-aged people, can either retire during the 10-year transitional period discussed today or find another activity. A little bit of the animal situation in the cages. Even if the current requirements of the Food and Veterinary Office are met, zoologists have indicated that the species-specific needs cannot be met by cage animals. They can't run, dig, hide, mink can't swim. Although it is not animals caught in the woods and caged in cages, a fox is a fox and a mink is a descendant of the cage. However, in view of the breeding work referred to by the fur industry in the case of caged animals, cage foxes may be considered to be canine animals kept in cages for the purpose of obtaining fur coats. The report by the European Commission's Scientific Committee on Animal Health and Welfare also states that the cages of fur farms do not meet the behavioural needs of animals and that they have behavioural disorders and diseases, they die a lot. The animal's in vain suffering is obvious. If fur animals are recommended to be kept in accordance with the needs of the species, they should be kept under conditions similar to those of zoos. It is clear that this would make fur production economically pointless. As farms are in any case an unsuitable environment for animals, Estonian zoologists Alexei Turovski and Rein Maran have also stressed. Livestock farming is also an increasingly unstable industry in the world under poor living conditions of animals, especially in the developed world. The world is moving towards more ethical entrepreneurship, the fashion world is moving towards less and less fur use, more progressive fashion designers are supporting animal conservation efforts to reduce animal suffering. Many stars are currently anti-furry, even though we remember the stars of Hollywood wrapped in movie history, foxes, or even exotic wild animals such as jaguars and tigers. It's obviously a scandal these days. In 2016, production of certain hides and skins worldwide fell sharply by 25%. According to Copenhagen Fur, the auction house's production of mink skins decreased from 72 million in 2015 to 52 million in 2016. The cause is, among other things, the bursting of a Chinese fur bubble, which, according to one film, is responsible for fighting corruption in China because fur has been a traditional gift for officials. We see less and less bear skins in street pictures because they are not fashionable or even act as a certain stigma or as a show-off with luxury. I am also well aware that the rural university in favour of continuing to produce fur has seen perspectives in its report on fur farming. However, this report does not take into account the ethical and environmental aspects of this industry. It is not an ecological industry, as is sometimes claimed, because strong chemicals are used to preserve, park and paint leather. You know, the skin's gonna rot. Statistics have been made that the fur industry is among the five most polluting industries in the world. As the skin goes for export in Estonia, we do not see direct chemical processing in Estonia. Skins produced in Estonia are dried and salted by certain methods and all treatment is outside Estonia. But generally, as a result of this treatment, many garments are used to decorate fur pieces, such as formaldehyde, in larger quantities than permitted. The environmental problem is also the possible spread of alien species into the wild and animal faeces. The carcasses of animals are not spared, but unfortunately they are also fed as bone meal to fellow animals on the farm. In summary, it is time to think on a value-based basis and put an end to this marginal practice with a bad reputation, the production of fur animals in Estonia. I would recommend that all Members of Parliament, on the basis of their conscience, stop the unnecessary torture of animals and support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U88	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U89	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Conscience is sometimes in place for all of us, just a question of how far conscience can be taken into account, either to absurdity or to stupidity. I have a lot of questions, and I'll try to ask them in 45 seconds. Question one. You claimed that all those who approve of bear breeding are backwards, who at the same time oppose foreigners, approve of close relationship violence, etc. Are you suggesting that, for example, Finland, Denmark and Latvia, where furs are a very large export product, are reactionary and anger-enhancing societies? They allow animals to be tortured there. That was the first question. The second question: should we perhaps go ahead with animal protection and ban all pigs, for example? The pigs we grow for pure meat, nothing else, but we can live without pork. We don't have to eat meat. And thirdly, do you think that the Estonian pension is humane? After all, you are suggesting that those workers who should lose their jobs because of this ban retire.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U90	Thank you. I'll start with the middle question. This draft concerns only animals which are reared for fur use. It's not about pigs. As far as Finland and Sweden are concerned, where fur farming is an advanced area of life, unfortunately, yes, those countries which are very advanced on some other matter are reactionary on the issue of fur breeding. However, the social protest movement in these countries is also highly developed in order to protect animal rights. For example, when demonstrations took place in front of the Riigikogu some time ago, Finnish animalists, who have been fighting fur for years, also came to the aid of Estonian animal conservationists, in a more radical way than Estonian animal conservationists have done. In Finland, animals have also been released from farms and other things that no animal defender has ever intended to do in Estonia. As far as pensions are concerned, I certainly think that Estonian pensions are small. But when it comes to people working in fur farms, for ten years they can change occupations or earn pension benefits in other areas, it doesn't have to be fur farming.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U91	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, I have such a point of clarification, I would just like to understand for myself. 14 members of the Riigikogu signed the bill. I'd like to know how many of them are vegetarians. I just want to know how many people are among us who, in order to come to work in a good mood and full of food, eat meat, for whose good they kill these fine, big-eyed calves and pink pigs. What makes living things so different that one can be killed, one cannot be touched? Explain it to me! But the basic question is still how many basic vegetarians are in this group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U93	Thank you for your question. I did not explain the specific nature of the eating habits of the drafters. I'm not a vegetarian myself. I would make a clear distinction with regard to the current draft: the draft concerns the rearing of the animals we are raising in order to get the coat of those we are not raising for the sake of meat. This bill only concerns these animals.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U94	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U95	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear waitress, I have the impression that you're living under some completely alien illusion when you think animals are better off in the wild than they are in that cage. Have you guys looked at these wildlife shows where animals tear each other apart and swallow each other half-assed, how they die of hunger, how they suffer from the cold? And have you seen a toad fox? There's nothing wrong with these cage animals. They have a belly full and a roof over their heads, and they're being vaccinated against diseases. It's not like if we let all the animals into the wild, they'll get better there. My question is, what's wrong with you? Why are you so cruel to the pets that you want them out of a safe home where they're always full, in a cruel jungle? Why do you hate animals?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U96	Thank you for your question. The purpose of the draft is not to release animals in fur farms. I've watched nature movies a lot, and I know there's a constant struggle in nature, that animals eat each other and that they can get sick. As far as fur farms are concerned, according to specialists, there are a large number of animals left in farms with diseases that are specific to them. There is a situation where they are almost unable to move, their bones get weak, their skin is often grown in double size and therefore they are overweight, they are not healthy animals. I suggest you watch a movie that shows this type of disease. It is a pity that you did not take advantage of the opportunity offered by the animalists to the members of the Riigikogu and did not come to see a film where Norwegians made a film about Norwegian fur farms through such a participatory survey. There you can see these diseases, as well as gnawing each other's throats and eating their cubs. Such aggression in nature somehow fades away, but under cage conditions very many animals are very sick, both mentally and physically. They are also practiced there, or picked out sick and weaker, and later fed as flour to others. So they have a very multifaceted life there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U97	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The explanatory memorandum to the draft law clearly states that the study carried out by the Veterinary Institute of the Estonian University of Life Sciences in 2016 is unobjective and biased. You repeated that claim yourself. What do you say that's based on? Do you have any other study that disproves these research results?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U99	Having had a bit of contact with social sciences myself, I also read the analysis of this country university, I looked at these surveys, and they have conducted public surveys, where the data obtained were somewhat different, and I also consulted animal conservationists. Of course, depending on how the question is raised, different data are available in the study. This is probably where we operate with different questions and different data. As regards the survey of the University of Earth, which sees fur farming as a prospective agricultural branch, the starting point has been to justify the rearing of fur animals. This is how half the arguments have been sought, such as the diversity of employment and agricultural activity on land. This is certainly supported by this report from the University of Life Sciences, but it has overlooked the ethical aspects of the field and the environmental aspects of the sector to which animal protection has put the main emphasis. These are studies from different positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U100	Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U101	Good President! Good penguin! This is a really broad subject and a long history, where arguments are likely to be found on both sides. But can you also name a more general philosophical or ethical principle on which you can think about this question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U102	Thank you for your question. After all, animal welfare is based on ethics and philosophical principles. The animal does not only see any such, say, object used to satisfy human needs. An animal is seen as a subject with some limited ability to feel pain. One person who has been called the mother of bear - rearing said that it was difficult for him to take their souls from animals. It is certainly a principled understanding here whether the animals are like us or whether they are different enough from us to exploit them. It's a big questionnaire. How big are these differences anyway? Science keeps giving us new answers. For example, dolphins are highly developed with the brain, and there may not be much difference between chimpanzee and human brains. These questions are under constant discussion, and the result is that animals are still being treated with more and more respect, either, but, let's say, they are not comparable to any, I don't know, pieces of wood that can simply be heated to warm themselves up.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U103	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U104	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I've been the only biologist and zoologist in this hall, dealing with animals a lot. This bill seems pretty absurd to me. But since there can be one question, I ask you this. You claim that as a result of parking, fur is one of the most dangerous things to wear. However, formaldehyde is also present in particle board, sports equipment, nail polishes, hair care products, influenza vaccine, polio vaccine. Do you think we should ban the vaccination of children?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U105	No, I don't think so. I think children should be vaccinated according to the national vaccination plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U106	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U107	Thank you, dear waitress. We know very well this picture: the cows were barning next to each other, the chickens were caged close to each other, and the whole life cycle like this. I'm sure you agree with me that they'd like to move, see the sunlight, but that's not the way it is. We're talking about standing up for fur animals here, but animal guards should stand up for all animals. Do you think we should make any more changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U108	This draft concerns fur farms where animals are kept which are reared for fur purposes. As far as animal welfare principles are concerned at all, animal welfare also deals with many other issues related to the housing of animals. These include, for example, the long-distance transport of animals accompanying intensive farming, the conditions under which they are kept. This is an evolving field of action in the field of animal welfare. I hope that one day before the Riigikogu there will also be regulations on other aspects of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U109	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, Several brief questions, you answer as much as you can. Is a rat a bear animal? Are there any rat species that make fur coats? How is the length of life different for fur animals living in the wild and for those living on the farm? Eight or ten of them will be born into the nest, and in a few months there will be one or two left in the wild. That's the logic. And another purely personal question: Have you ever been to a meat factory? Have you seen the process of killing cows? I've seen this as a student a long time ago, I really hope it's changed. But from what I'm reading, I've realized that there's no really big change there. There were a lot of questions when I get the answers, I get it, if I don't, I don't!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U111	I'll start at the end. Yeah, I've seen movies about killing meat animals. I haven't been there, but I think maybe a person on the ground doesn't always have to go. People don't usually go to concentration camps, they may have seen fragments of archival films, but that's enough to figure out what's been going on there. We don't have to see things to the details. As far as a rat is concerned, when a rat is kept on farms for the purpose of skinning, it is a fur animal. As far as I know, they don't. At least the information I'm relying on isn't about rat farms. What was the third question? It's right that they may be living in nature for a little while. The question is, how do they live on farms, whether they live a species - owned life and die without human pain, or die of their natural death, which can undoubtedly be painful. It is a question of human intervention, of this ethical aspect, of whether animals can live their own kind of life, which can, of course, be very scary for a rat to live in a sewer system somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U112	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U113	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! I understand that Estonia is a free society, where all people can make their own choices for self-realization. Entrepreneurship is one possible way in which people can exercise themselves. Aren't you going to restrict the freedom to conduct a business with this bill? In my opinion, this environment is certainly not more unhumane than that of freehouses. Our freerooms are not really freehouses, but closed facilities. I grew up on a farm where I went to herd cows with a chain, or there was an electric shepherd. I don't understand that logic. This area is, in my opinion, comparable to other animal farming sectors. Why are you violating the freedom to conduct a business?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U114	Once again, I would still know the difference. It is now a question of keeping animals that are considered for fur that are no longer necessary for man to survive today. I represent this view that eating meat and consuming dairy products are appropriate in Estonia's circumstances when a person chooses such a diet. Therefore, I do not believe that the two types of livestock can be compared and there is no need to compare in the light of this draft. Freedom to conduct a business I am also very much in favour of freedom to conduct a business, and I believe that a free person must be able to do what he wants if he does not cause suffering to others. At the same time, I also believe that there are some ethical principles in business, and it is clear that if any kind of enterprise starts to hurt any ethical principle, it will cause suffering to somebody, then we will not accept it. This is an ethical choice. There are certainly choices in all kinds of entrepreneurship; a person can have all sorts of crazy ideas. Society doesn't accept everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U115	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I listened with interest to Mr Helme's speech, and I would like to ask you how it seems to you whether his logic, that the cage is better, also applies to people. After all, those in prison are in some way better protected, they do not have to worry about food or a place to sleep. Looks like his logic's headed right that way. How do you feel, is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U117	Thank you for your question. I think that only Martin Helme himself can answer this question exhaustively. I wouldn't get involved in that thought development.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U118	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U119	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear waitress, Good colleague, I can. I'd still know the difference between humans and animals. I must admit here that, throughout history, a greater number of people have always chosen safe imprisonment, i.e. tyranny for unsafe freedom. It is unfortunately in the nature of the human soul. I'll ask the waitress. I heard there was some kind of Norwegian propaganda movie. My goal in politics is not to consume propaganda, but to still produce it. So I didn't look at it, indeed, but I heard that Finnish activists came here to incite hatred for bear breeding. Is social support for your strange enterprise in Estonia so insignificant that it is necessary to bring help from Finland? Don't you think it's totally undemocratic to import some crazy hippies from somewhere else in the world in order to influence the Estonian parliament and social opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U120	Animal welfare issues are global. It seems to me that the ethical issues concerning human rights and the protection of minorities are all global, cannot be resolved within the borders of one country. As long as animal welfare is guaranteed worldwide, the fight will continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U121	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, It turned out from your report that the consumption of furs and the need for them have been decreasing in the world. Do you not think that this law could become such a drawer law as the Central Party agreement with Russian friends that does not work? This industry will die out of itself if there is no demand, these animals will probably not be kept either.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U123	The impact of this debate in this Parliament should also be that awareness of fur animals will certainly increase. When you talk to people about these matters, you can really enlighten them on various matters. I didn't know how many animals were kept, exactly what they did to them and their skins until I got to know the details. In this sense, I hope that if this draft should go out in a drawer somewhere, then the discussion that this draft will bring about in this House will, in any case, make our society better and cleaner.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U124	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U125	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I want to ask you a little bit about these polls. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that only 12% of Estonian residents agree to the continuation of farm work in its current form. But this letter, which was sent to the Riigikogu by the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade, is based on the new study of Turku Research AS and there are other figures. This confirms that 69% of Estonians believe that the rearing of fur animals in Estonia should remain acceptable if it meets all the requirements. How do you comment on this great difference? What study to believe, and why?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U126	Yeah, there's a lot of research. I was working on it, too, and I saw that they were conflicting. The results of such a study also depend on the question being raised. I believe that the questions were different, and that is why the figures are very different. A slight difference would be understandable. But the questions are very different.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U127	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U128	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, To be honest, I am sorry that some of my colleagues have tried to make some kind of fun of this issue during the debate, or some ridicule. I myself believe that the success of the Estonian economy should in any case be based on technology and technological development, robots and good education, but not on breeding animals with the aim of skinning and skinning them. Yet there are now dozens of fur farms in Estonia. One question that has been asked about this draft concerns the transitional period. In the last practically 15 years, the rearing of fur animals has been banned in a number of countries in the European Union. Do you have available comparative data on the length of transition periods so that those companies that are active in this sector during the discussion of the draft can re-orient themselves so that people are not quite in employment and move elsewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U129	This ten-year term has been included in this draft by analogy with other countries, i.e. ten years have been considered a reasonable period of time. If companies have loan obligations, if they have any expectations of profit or if they have any contracts to comply with, these problems can be solved before the profile changes or, I don't know, the relocation of their activities, should this prove necessary. The biggest company is AS Balti Karuskät, which is a Finnish company. Finns have promoted bear breeding in other countries, including China. I do not think that we should stand up so terribly for Finnish entrepreneurs here, even though investments are very necessary. But I think that Finns could invest us in another area of life using their knowledge and skills. Very many small fur farms have recently emerged in connection with swine plague. Many who have had to give up pig farming because of the swine plague have created a small Chinchilla farm. These are one-man farms. In fact, Balti Karuskõt accounts for 90 to 95% of the entire Estonian fur industry, and there are less than a hundred people working there, so this is not a very large business area.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U130	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Barbie! I am very pleased that you boldly brought this issue to the Riigikogu and very well explain to the members of the Riigikogu why a ban on bear breeding should be introduced. I have a question. Now that you've seen the minds of the questioners, how do you think this vote is going today in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U131	Siret Eagle-Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U132	I know that some political groups already have a group position, but that my aim is still to win your favour, I would not now be predicting the outcome of the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U133	Igor Kravtšenko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good colleague! You mentioned repeatedly that the biggest farm was the Baltic Bearskin. It's too bad you haven't gotten to the village of Karjaküla where it is, to go and get to know the situation. I'm guessing, indirectly or directly, about three-quarters of the residents of this colony are involved in the farm. What do you think will happen if we take this piece of bread off them one day? Other employers are known to be one small shop and one small social centre, that's all. So what happens to these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U135	Certainly, social impacts must be taken into account when reorganising any business, but that is the long transition period, ten years. I hope that during this period, the people who are now busy there will find another occupation or retire. In my speech, I said that I don't think we can just rely on the argument that if people have any work in the country, it's all very well. We still want to be an innovative and smart country and encourage some other type of entrepreneurship in the country as well. It does not necessarily have to be the work of skinning fur animals on the ground. On the ground, you can take care of the rest economy, you can take care of people. It is an extensive activity that could develop in small rural areas. Why does it have to do with killing animals? If there's unethical work going on in a small country, I don't think that's good. I believe that these people themselves are not happy when they kill animals.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U136	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U137	Good manager and good waitress! In fact, cage animals cannot be compared to animals at large. By the way, Karjaküla began the career of a later Russian academician, who studied the effect of domestication on the silver fox. My question is that for some reason rabbits have been excluded from the bill, although they also provide a very beautiful coat and very dangerous coat and meat because of parking. What's the difference between chinchilla and rabbit? In a broad sense, one of the rats is all. Why is killing chinchilla very tragic, but killing a rabbit and making a fur coat is acceptable? Where's the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U138	I come once again to the text of the bill: it is only the issue of fur animals. Rabbit is also a meat animal. I do not know that Chinchilla meat would be widely fed in Estonia. Or do you have other records?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U139	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, I would like to open up another aspect of this debate that has not sounded today, and that is precisely the question of natural balance. The fact that foxes, minke and other animals are kept in cages has led to a situation where foxes, raccoons, minke and other small game hunters do not hunt. As these animals remain unhunted in nature, the sufferers are mainly canals, they are field fish, partridges, fredres and wild boars, whose numbers have decreased significantly despite the increase in our forests. Rabbits are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U141	Thank you for setting this up. I think this is a very important aspect. I understand that hunters are also in favour of banning fur farms, because in this case, hunting foxes and raccoons will become useful again. Their skins have a different meaning. I'm the one who treats the hunt like that. I understand that man has let the natural balance go away, and that's why some animals have to be hunted so that others can live. It is the birds that live on the ground, and the rabbits, who are really cut off by this fox and raccoon population. Thank you for setting this up.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U142	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U143	Thank you, good President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I really wouldn't have asked, but since you yourself said such an interesting phrase that we here in Estonia, in our climate, some people have chosen milk and meat to eat, so we can allow them to eat it. I know a lot of vegans who claim that it is scientifically proven that in fact, man can do quite well without meat and milk and eggs. Why do you still find that we don't need fur, milk and meat as if we need it? Perhaps you should have come before us from the point of view of animal protection at the most extreme and we would have been seriously discussing the ban on animal husbandry for consumption, whatever that is. I'm actually asking you this without a joke. Here before, it was suggested that some of the comrades here are asking us a joke, and I'm asking you a joke.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U144	The draft still concerns animals kept for the purpose of obtaining furs only for the purpose of obtaining furs. It seemed utopian to bring in all the animals kept for meat. This would still be too radical in terms of both economic and social impact. And I do not think that scientists have unambiguously justified that the Estonian climate can always cope without milk, meat and eggs. It may be appropriate on an individual basis, but I am not quite sure that it has been unambiguously demonstrated that as a vegan everything can be done in the Estonian climate. As far as I know, children are not advised to have a one-sided diet.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U145	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U146	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I actually really enjoyed the fact that quite a number of MPs have spoken about other agricultural animals today. It has been said about their living conditions that there is also a need to do something about it. I mean, there is, in fact, an alternative to organic production, where animals walk and live almost as if in the wild. I want to call on MPs to consume more organic products and to support such an initiative. At the same time, I would like to ask you, because I see that the consumption of organic products is constantly increasing all over the world, whether people are thinking more about how animals live, how food comes on the table and whether it is worth buying furs or whether it is wiser to choose an alternative.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U147	Thank you. I believe organic production is an area of the future. Fortunately, Estonia's natural environment is very clean; there could be much more organic production here. Skeptical experts have said there are limits. Organic production can never produce in size as much as intensive agriculture, but it is certainly good that we can make choices by buying and eating eggs and organic meat as we wish. I am very much in favour of, for example, the workers of the Baltic Bearskin family being able to continue to work on some organic farms, raising animals that will live for the rest of their lives and eventually reach someone's food table as painlessly as possible, should this be necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U148	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U149	Thank you, Barbi! Don't you think it's a suggestion that Estonian bear farmers should move their production to another country, two-faced and Pharisee? Well, it turns out you don't give a shit about animals. There are other interests here. I ask you this: whose interests do you and the other drafters actually represent, wanting us to destroy the entire industry?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U150	Thank you, very interesting question. I think it's a relatively sincere bill. There is no huge global network behind this, which means someone's interests. At least I don't know about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U151	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U152	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good waitress! In your introductory speech, you said that by adopting this law, Estonia could enter the family of leading countries that have partially banned bear breeding. In the explanatory memorandum, we read that Denmark has partially banned it. At the same time, we know that Denmark is one of the largest farmers of fur animals. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U153	As far as I know, it has something to do with growing foxes in Denmark. They have a ban like a species. However, I am indebted to the answer to this specific question on Denmark at the moment, and I must clarify that. But yes, it is one of the options chosen in some countries: one species is banned and the other is kept. There are such variants in those countries where the process of prohibition or authorisation is under way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U154	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U155	Thank you. Good waitress! I think that on the length of this transitional period we will probably be able to discuss this draft at the next stages of the procedure as well. But I couldn't find the government's position in this explanatory statement. The government also formulates views on the drafts submitted by Members. Can you tell me what the government thinks about this change?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U156	The government didn't give a position. This issue was in the debate and the government did not give a position.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U157	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U158	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You know, sometimes I get the feeling I'm in some weedy hippie meeting. What we are doing here is not serious. I'm embarrassed that there are some points of view around here that we'll let you eat pork and drink milk and even put eggs in the pan, but we'll get to that. I have a nice pamphlet that, by the way, has very thought-provoking figures. In Denmark, for example, the sales turnover of fur production was EUR 812 million in 2015. With what are we going to replace the money that we could get if we were to exploit its potential and also produce fur and sell them on the same scale as in Denmark? We basically have that potential. Socialists love to share money, but someone has to make it. Bear farms could be one of the possibilities of producing money in the Estonian economy. How do you feel about that? How do you compensate for this economic loss and loss of jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U159	The subject was already here for the speech. I think that organic farms would certainly be a much more modern area, and Estonia has great potential in this, because we have a clean nature and a competent agricultural workforce. Also, there in AS Balti Karuskõt people would be happy to do something more beautiful than what they are doing now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U160	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U161	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! This has already sounded here once today, but I am still stressing the aspect of the market. This bill approaches the subject, based on the understanding that if we no longer offer, there will be no demand. In general, however, if there is demand, there will be an offer. If one place isn't allowed to produce, another place will be allowed. The question is why our businesses should face unequal competition with our neighbours, either north or east. What's it based on?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U162	The aim of the draft is to ban fur farms, not to close fur shops. As far as I know, the fur business in Estonia is not very prosperous. When you look at the street pictures, we don't see the long coats and fur hats that were common a couple of thirty years ago. It seems to me that the demand side can regulate the fur industry itself. This is how it has gone around the world, with awareness of the ethical aspects of industry growing. We are talking about fair trade. Who would have thought in the past that we would look into buying coffee beans, where they were produced and not using child labour? This side of consumption in itself is shrinking the fur industry. The Chinese market has so far also provided food for the Nordic fur industry, but China is also changing very quickly. As I said, according to a film that could, of course, be viewed critically, when China started to deal more closely with corruption problems, their fur bubble collapsed because officials could no longer be bought with fur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U163	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U164	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Obviously, animalists are not familiar and are trying populistly to claim that fur animals are kept in farms under poor conditions, but I, as a lifelong farm worker, can say that we are doing very well with this. In particular, the conditions for keeping fur animals have improved recently. So this is no argument that these animals are under constant stress. Secondly, I want to say that there was a census here of how many vegetarian animal conservationists there are, but I would do another census: how many animal conservationists are there who keep their pets in apartments where animals are stressed, whiny and yawning for days? Don't they have stress? But on a big farm with normal conditions, like stress. I have a question: do you think this is not such a populist approach? Perhaps these animal guards should also stop keeping their pets in immediate order?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U165	Thank you. As far as I know, keeping pets isn't about getting fur. As far as these cages are concerned, even if they meet all the requirements, they must still be relatively small. Only then is fur production profitable. The conditions for these species are not fulfilled on the farm. That's what zoologists think. The foxes can't scrape there, can't run, the bottoms of the cage are from the net, their feet go through there, they can't hide, they don't have these little six in the back of the cage to hide there. In the opinion of zoologists, the specific needs of the species are not met in these cages, even if the cages comply with veterinary standards. But even veterinary standards cannot be too strict, because then production would become meaningless. After all, these animals cannot be regarded as snow leoparde in Tallinn Zoo, which basically live the way a species is appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U166	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the questioner has unlimited time to answer, and the questioner has one minute. The negotiations will come later. Please, Dmitri Dmitriev!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! A survey by the Estonian University of Life Sciences points out that to obtain export production, predatory fur animals are mainly fed with meat and fish waste to qualify for valuable export production. If we did not have predators, these waste from the meat and fish industry would have to be largely disposed of using fossil fuels. Thus, the enhancement of the meat industry's waste for the production of fur from fur farming will match its content with the development plan of the Estonian bioeconomy until 2030. My question is: would you have a more economically viable solution to this aspect of the environmental and bioeconomy?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U168	Thank you. Such technical solutions to exploit animal waste are certainly not my direct profession, but in the text you read out, the very fine scientific wording says that dead animals are fed in as flour to others and that it is eco. But the use of animal waste is certainly one of the areas on which I am not going to share my thoughts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U169	Please, Siret Eagle-Repinski, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U170	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Terje Trei indicated in its question that there would be no livestock farms if there was no demand. With a little further philosophy, could this idea not be extended, for example, so that drugs should be legalised, as demand is known to exist in society?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U171	It is such a very simplistic approach to the market that demand and supply are directly dependent on each other without any interference. Today there are also marketing and ten different factors that regulate demand and supply. I understand that when she asked her question, Terje Trei envisaged the possibility that the fur industry would die out of itself because demand would decrease. It seems to me that was the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U172	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned a number of countries where bear breeding is banned. Can you also name countries where the keeping of some species is banned, but those species that have historically been grown there are out of the ban?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U174	That is quite a specific question. I know that in some countries there is limited growth of foxes due to the lack of species-specific housing conditions, but it is allowed to grow mink or chinchilla. Yeah, there are differences, but I owe you a specific answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U175	Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U176	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! My question makes sense to Urmas Kruus, although we have not agreed to it. Did you discuss the solution with the people who drafted the draft as an option, such as in Finland, where some species are allowed? Perhaps a draft could have been drawn up, partly on the basis of the experience of the northern neighbours? Were you discussing it or were you being radical?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U177	We were radical at first. It seemed that this industry was so small in Estonia and that creating differences might be some sort of next step issue. However, if this seems to be more acceptable in Estonian society, amendments may be tabled. It had to start somewhere, and it seemed to make sense as a first step.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U178	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U179	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress. Once upon a time a zoologist spoke to Turovsky revealed that man was the only animal with free time. Other animals are always looking for food for themselves or fleeing or cleaning themselves. They're always doing something. If generalized, shouldn't a discussion be made about what might result from the abuse of free time? Can't a person learn anything from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U180	Do you mean the free time these caged animals have to kill? Yes, as a metaphor, you might think that if you give a person too much free time, you put him in a cage where he has nothing to do, whether he's gonna be circling around and chewing his feet, I don't know. Maybe as a metaphor, it could be usable, but it's a very cruel comparison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U181	Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U182	Thank you very much. Thank you to the waitress for her thorough answer to the questions. You've stood before us for an hour and heard things, including questions of 19th and 20th century mentality. My question specifically is about the Netherlands. The Netherlands is forced to ban fur farms on 1 January 2024. What can Estonia read from this message?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U183	I believe that the Netherlands is liberal and practical, while at the same time at the forefront, on a very large number of matters governing social life. Estonia could only take the example of the Netherlands here. Estonia's transition period is longer, but I think we could catch up quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U184	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U185	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! That's the kind of thing I'm asking. Are you personally prepared to make such a proposal to amend the bill? You have seen the discussion in this Chamber and can continue on the committees. The species that are grown in Estonia would be specifically banned and would limit enlargement. As society as a whole evolves, perceptions may also change. But then it would be possible to find new solutions. However, we cannot underestimate, as ladies and gentlemen have marked, the need for certain jobs in rural areas. Socially speaking, this has to be taken into account. The discussions on ethics are always very complicated and deep. I wouldn't dare throw such light hands at the message that one colleague is like the 19th century and the other from the 20th century.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U186	Once again, the painting can perform various jobs, not necessarily a bear farm. I imagine that amendments may be tabled during the procedure for this draft, which would be realistic and take into account the needs of interested parties. However, the current objective of the draft is to ban fur breeding in line with the example of the countries that have done so. But there may indeed be some options during the transition period. However, I will stick to the fact that the ultimate goal could still be to lose this activity in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U187	Igor Kravtšenko.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U188	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! I have to apologize to Marianne Mikko for partly repeating her question. The Netherlands is a little far away from us, but our closest neighbours, Finland and Latvia, are not banning, they are developing this industry. What can Estonia read from this message?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U189	I believe that we have always liked it when we are better than Finland or Latvia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U190	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U191	Thank you. Good waitress, I would like to congratulate you on your initiative. This bill is a bold step. There is always a great deal of discussion and contradiction in the process of making such major changes. I guess that's the subject of attitudes and moral comprehension. Therefore, I have never rushed to condemn those who condemn this bill for their part. Here, rational economic considerations collide with ethical considerations. But one such argument by so-called rational economics has always been that they think it is okay to keep these farms if the animals are guaranteed the prescribed conditions in that cage. The question is now of a slightly rhetorical nature, but yet, how can wild animals be guaranteed normal conditions in a cage? In essence, that is impossible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U192	Yes, in the opinion of zoologists, conditions complying with the veterinary standards do not meet the requirements for species. Animals can't run, scrape, hide in cages. The bunny should be able to swim. The necessary conditions are not guaranteed in this sense, although the cages comply with the standards. The conditions corresponding to the norm are guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U193	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. The Chair of the Environment Commission, Rainer Vakra, will make a presentation on behalf of the Steering Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U194	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was initiated by 14 members of the Riigikogu on 23 February 2017. The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed the draft on 18 April. Before that, the Committee on the Environment received 10,000 signatures of support from supporters of the ban on fur farms. The Committee on the Environment also stated that there were economic interests on the one hand, and that there were problems of animal protection and ethics on the other. I will say in advance that, in any case, this is a historic moment: this issue has been maintained in previous years, but today we all have the opportunity and the duty to state our position in concrete terms in this Chamber. I must congratulate my fellow Members in this great Chamber. I examined the protocol of the Committee on the Environment on a number of occasions, which was asked and discussed by the Commission, and I can say that I found only one question that was asked in the Committee on the Environment and which was not asked in this large Chamber. That's what I'm about to read. This question was raised by a good colleague, Meelis Mälberg, who asked both parties, i.e. on the one hand, the representatives of the livestock farming sector and on the other hand, the opponents whose interests they represent and who are financing them. Leander Pragi, who represents the interests of livestock farmers, replied that he primarily represents the interests of himself and all Estonian livestock farmers, as well as the interests of a member of the management board of Nuckö Farm OÜ. It shall finance this activity in conjunction with all other undertakings. On the other hand, Kadri Taperson explained that he represents the interests of the animals and that the annual report of his organization can all be consulted on the website, but the financiers are private individuals. All parties were invited to the Commission's debate, starting of course from Barbi Pilvrest, the initiator of the draft. The Chairman of the Board Leander Pragi, Aado Oherd, Member of the Board of the Estonian Bearstockers Association, Tarmo Kattago, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Bearstockers Association, Kadri Taberson, representative of the animal welfare organisation, and Anita Jürson from the same organisation were present. The Ministry of Rural Affairs was represented by Vice Chancellor Toomas Kevvai and Head of the Office for Animal Protection and Breeding of Agricultural Animals Sirje Jalakas. In addition, Liina Jürgenson, Head of the Office for Livestock Products, was present from the Ministry. The Ministry of the Environment was represented by Merike Linnamägi, Head Specialist of the Department of Nature Conservation. Following a presentation by Barbi Pilvre, the Commission took procedural decisions. The proposal was to conclude the first reading of Bill 392. 1 member of the Committee on the Environment voted in favour, 5 against, no one was impartial. The proposal was therefore not supported. In summary, it was decided to appoint Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Environment Committee (consensus), to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary sitting of the Riigikogu by today, 9 May (consensus) and to propose that the draft be rejected at first reading (5 votes in favour, 1 against). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U195	You have questions too. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U196	Thank you, dear waitress. You presented the Commission's views and, unfortunately, many feel that you yourself are in favour of rejecting this bill. Yet you are among the initiators. Do you have anything to say in addition to a very good Barbi performance?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U197	Thank you, very good question! I'll read the minutes in detail. Igor Kravtšenko, Andres Metsoja, Meelis Mälberg, Terje Trei and Toomas Väinaste were in favour of the rejection, against Rainer Vakra. I'll add that I'm really one of those 14 initiators. After listening to this discussion, I dare to suggest that every time you sign a bill, you should talk to the specialists first. I think that when we talk about fur animals and fur farms, there are a number of people in this Chamber who claim to be scientists in this area. The two men I talked to for hours before I signed this paper are Tiit Maran, the director of the zoo, who probably can talk about minks not just for days and weeks, but for years, and the other, of course, is Alexei Turovski. I believe that the knowledge of these men when we talk about the ethics of keeping animals in cages is impossible to question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U198	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U199	Thank you. Good waitress! I have a feeling today's vote is going in quite one direction. What can be the next steps to make progress on this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U200	I cannot tell you what direction Mr Luik is predicting. I hope that this draft will receive a majority and will support its further discussion. The same way that this debate came out of the way, additional proposals can be put forward, the text can be polished, it can be improved. I believe it would make sense to continue working on this draft. This morning, when I woke up knowing that I had to come here with this bill, I remembered Nõmme's legendary vicar Ove Sander, who sent a message of recognition and assured me that in any case our fight for this right ethics would continue. I think that at one point people realise that killing animals and keeping them in such conditions is only reasonable in order to be beautiful and educating themselves with their skins. As the minister said: "Those who rely solely on money in their decisions do not go far. '
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U201	Meelis Mälberg.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U202	Thank you. I do not have a direct question; I would just like to clarify one thing for the sake of the verbatim. In the Commission, I asked the question of who are the contributors to the activities of the parties involved. I later examined the annual reports of this Creature and, for the sake of accuracy, it should be said that not all donors are private individuals. Quite a lot of donors are from abroad. I'm not gonna make a comment on whether it's good or bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U203	Thank you. For my part, I can comment that, after the same exchange of e-mails, we also asked for clarification from the representatives of the animal guardian organization Creatus and we were sent a specific, accurate overview. All members of the Riigikogu who wish to become acquainted with this funding can do so. I believe that the Committee on the Environment can send this e-mail. So Meelis Mälberg's comment has been taken into account and we will try to send this information to everyone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U204	Thank you too, dear waitress. No further questions. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. Mikhail Stalnukhin on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U205	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Two marginal notes at first. I went down the hall to see who's sitting in this hall. As far as I've seen the initiators here, they're all in natural leather shoes. If you want to fix the world, start with you! I don't see any difference between fur and footwear. Another marginal remark is that there is no very important provision in this bill: there could be a sentence inside that all animals are equal, but some animals are slightly more equal than others. It also has a specific author there, orwell, as most people know. I'll talk about it a little later. Now let's get down to business. See, concrete examples are best understood. 17 years ago, I was in England, we studied the problems of racism and minorities, and that's why we were dragged along Scotland Yard and all kinds of police stations. In a small town in western England, about the size of Tartu, I asked the chief of police what they had the greatest incident in the past year. He said a month ago, the greens attacked a pharmacology lab. Two officers protecting the lab were taken to the hospital. Everyone who worked there got beat up. The animals were brought out of the house festively, taken to the woods, and released with beautiful speeches. Then I looked at his face and it looked like he wanted to say something else. I asked what happened afterwards. He said that a quarter of the animals came back, found their way, but the remaining three quarters were found dead in the woods. So what people who protect nature offer is not necessarily the best option. It could be something else entirely. In my opinion, this bill puts two questions before us. The first question is whether animals or animals. For example, Europe is being brought under our noses: see, the Netherlands is doing so and so. But I remind you of a giraffe, a very nice, young, beautiful, fabulous giraffe named Marius. Do you remember that video of him being killed at the Copenhagen Zoo last year? Do you remember what they did to him? By the way, it's a fur animal. He was held there somewhere in captivity, as they say. Then four lions were killed right there. But why do we even know the difference? We don't talk about cows, for example, but it's horrible! The way the killing process is happening is horrible! Most people who eat sausage don't want to see animals killed, don't want to know anything from the beginning of this cycle. It's a huge hypocrite! If you protect animals, protect everyone! Why are you talking only about fur animals? First stop eating meat, and then I'll have a real conversation with you. Then I believe you're trying to do something for the animals. But as long as you eat some Vienna sausage in the morning, and after that, you come to tell me how sacred it is to be an animal's life, I don't believe you. I just don't think so! The second question is a little more important. Animals or Humans? I think there are just as many problems with people. We have faced conflicts in other parts of the world that have killed millions of people. I'm talking about Africa, Central Africa, North Africa. Iraq's war has claimed a minimum of 700,000 lives. Has anyone ever said anything about this in this hall? No, we're protecting those minks. The minks who live in captivity much longer than their relatives in the woods. So there are a lot more questions here than answers. I don't think it's worth saving any bill that wants to destroy an industry that works in, they say, uh, just 150 people. Have you created a job for even ten people? Well, if you've done it, then good! Then tell me how to destroy these 150 jobs. But if you've never done such a thing, if you don't know how hard it is, stop talking nonsense. What we're doing now is arguing with God, if you're religious, or Charles Darwin, if you're an atheist. The first one's stupid, the second one's pointless. And that's what I'd say about this bill. Excuse me, I wanted to be polite, I wanted to be cute as these fur animals are, but if we continue this work in the same direction, sooner or later we'll be skinned ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U206	Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U207	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, unlike the author of the bill, Barbi Pilvre, I have been to bear farms, both in Estonia and in Finland. I can assure you that the horror pictures painted on us from the current situation are not true. Farming fur is an industry like any other. It employs many people, including those who are not directly involved in the rearing of fur animals. In other areas, it gives bread to builders, repairers, people involved in transport, fashion designers, seamsmen, animal feed manufacturers, meat producers, farmers, fishermen, veterinarians, accounting companies, sellers, not everything can be counted. Behind every man working in a bear farm is a large number of people who also get bread on the table. For example, in Keila rural municipality Karjaküla bear farm is the largest employer of the whole municipality and the biggest taxpayer through it. Prohibiting breeding and breeding will lead to a social disaster on the ground, because there is no other job to find there. And do you know that every year, up to 1000 Estonians go to Finnish fur farms for seasonal work when it is time for skin collection and treatment. Together with families, banning bear breeding would affect the well-being of thousands of people and would significantly reduce the country's tax receipts. Farming fur is extremely effective and sustainable. Everything is being used in this area, no residue left. Skin goes into the clothing industry, meat is mixed into food, fat residue is made of biofuels, manure is composted and fertilized. It is a production that truly preserves nature. By the way, the price of biodiesel produced from animal fur residues is significantly cheaper than the price of conventional diesel. In addition, fur farms are very large consumers of residues from the meat and fish industries and therefore the ban on fur farming would also directly affect domestic food production, the competitiveness of this industry and the price of food for consumers. Fur is significantly more durable than artificial materials and pollutes nature many times, not to mention energy consumption. Artistic materials are mainly derived from oil residues, their degradation takes hundreds of years or more, their residues and toxins enter the wild, accumulate in the oceans and living organisms. Is it really the goal of banners to further increase the footprint of people in the wild? No doubt we all support the good treatment of animals, but the claim that bear farms have poor conditions is not true. The situation is fundamentally different than it was decades ago. The requirements of the European Union are strict, the living conditions of the animals are as good as possible and the controls are strong. Estonia's requirements are even stricter than those of the European Union. The growing of alien species cannot be one of the bases for banning them. For example, double fences around farms, so that the American mink does not enter the wild, are mandatory only in Estonia. The false checks carried out by some groups by means of'sneak-break-in' checks, which reportedly resulted in the discovery of a mass of sick animals, and the propaganda of anti-carous animal husbandry based on them cannot be taken seriously. Someone among our 101 delegates is sick at times, can we conclude that we are all sick in this Chamber? I'm sorry! In addition to the veterinarians of the farms, official veterinary checks are carried out on fur farms, which are frequent, regular and rigorous. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U208	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U209	The direct interest of breeders themselves is to ensure the health and welfare of animals. No wild animal, as well as most pets, is as well fed and under constant control as they are in farms. Under bad conditions, no grower will get good skin and no grower will risk their income by endangering quality. The argument that rearing should be banned because the welfare of fur animals cannot be raised to what most people consider sufficient is absurd. Take these people to a pig or chicken farm somewhere, and you can be sure that the same arguments will come! In this context, it would be pointless to start talking about how much a wild boar runs off a day or flies as a bog. But in the context of fur animals, we're talking about it. Why? In fact, the inhabitants of fur farms are not wild animals. They're not wild animals! They are no longer wild animals, as explained in the draft explanatory memorandum. There is a hundred-year tradition in our region of rearing and breeding them. It means a hundred generations of fur animals that have been bred and bred. In the case of humans, a hundred generations would take us back 2,000 years, take us back to the times of Christ. If you ignore it, you might as well say that cows and pigs are wild animals, not to mention sheep and goats. It is wrong to believe that if we support the banning of bear farms, its demanders would be satisfied. Anyway, banning the rearing of other domestic animals and possibly banning meat at all should also be on the table. As long as it is not possible to propose what should be done instead and how to develop the economy, banning and eliminating the entire industry is a completely absurd proposal. It's unthinkable! The transitional period is also no solution, much less the transfer of this production to another country. Who fills a tax hole in the budget and why give economic and competitive advantage to other countries? Finland has a turnover of 500 million, Denmark has 800 million, Poland has 400 million, and Estonia has only 6 million. We could also have a much more important industry with great export potential and huge room for growth. I would have much more to say, but I would like to conclude by saying that I am surprised by the duality of the drafters. When EKRE submitted a draft last year aimed at prohibiting the killing of animals for religious purposes, which is slow, particularly in a cruel, painful and painful way, it was voted down. Where were you? Against this background, it should be embarrassing to talk about ethical dimensions and objectives in relation to bear breeding. This is an extremely populist, hypocritical and purely emotional draft. In this context, the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to reject this draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U210	Artur Talvik on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U211	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Free Party supports the decision of the Committee on the Environment. From our point of view, too, it is not right to over-regulate life with orders and prohibitions. Bear breeding, as Barbi Pilvre said from this remote control, is probably a dying industry. If he's a dying industry, let him die. Why do we have to speed this up? We are of the opinion that if such prohibitions are made at all, they should be done more widely. When it is said that we are banning bear breeding, we are doing so throughout the European Union. It would be right, it would provide solutions, it would not take the people of Estonia working in this field to work elsewhere, out of this country. We are of the opinion that consumption patterns also guide industry. If people really don't buy fur anymore, then the industry will disappear and let it die. But to today's bill, we are voting against. One more thing. I would like to stress that the Free Party has advocated positive changes in intensive agriculture to change animal husbandry. In our opinion, it is hypocritical to distinguish between two killings. Killing is killing. And if we kill for eating, we kill. In large pig and cattle farms and in large henhouses animals and chickens are kept under worse conditions than in fur farms. These things should be dealt with in a complex way. We cannot remove one marginal part of the set and begin to treat it as something specially important. And at all, human activity, according to ecologists, has taken it so far that we have crossed the line where nature can restore itself. If we speak today that all right, we may be showing off these furs only, many of our clothes are made on the basis of oil, and this has led to things so bad that climate change can destroy our entire lives on the planet. These issues should be viewed in a complex way, and we would like to do so in this area as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U212	There are no further requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 392 at first reading. As we have noted, the EKRE Group proposed the same thing. The Saalikutsung will bring us closer to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal by the commission and the EKRE Group 392 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 49 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 24 against and 1 abstention. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U213	The second item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft Public Procurement Act 450 initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs. For the presentation, I would like to invite the Chair of the Economic Commission, Mr Aivar Koka. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U214	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the draft Public Procurement Act at its meeting on 4 May. On 26 February 2014, the European Parliament and the Council adopted three new directives in the field of public procurement. One of these is Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the award of consensual contracts, the other is Directive 2014/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on public procurement and repealing Directive 2004/18/EC and Directive 2014/25/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on public procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors and repealing Directive 2004/17/EC. The second and third in the list replace the existing classical and network directives on the coordination of procedures for the award of public works contracts, public supply contracts and public service contracts adopted in 2004 and the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council coordinating the procurement procedures of entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors. The first one regulates the award of concession contracts, which were so far partly governed by Directive 2004/18/EC: separate procedural rules were laid down for the award of works concessions, while no European Union legislation concerned the award of a service concession contract. In the Concessions Directive, the award of concession contracts has been brought under uniform rules of competition. Under all three new directives, Member States had to bring into force and publish the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with the new directives by 18 April of last year. The aim of the draft is to harmonise our legislation with the new directives. In the case of public procurement with a budget exceeding the limits laid down in the new directives, the requirements of the new directives must be transposed in full and the draft must contain both mandatory provisions that are identical for all the Member States of the European Union and optional provisions that allow Estonia to take into account their circumstances. The aim of the draft is also to regulate public procurement below the international threshold according to the needs of Estonia, taking into account the optimal workload of contracting authorities and, on the other hand, the interests of economic operators. It is a desire to facilitate access to the market for small and medium-sized enterprises, while respecting the principles of equal treatment, transparency and control and the promotion of competition in public procurement. The development of a new comprehensive law was the result of extensive changes that will lead to the new directives. The amendment to the Public Procurement Act would have been excessive and would not ensure legal clarity. Among other things, Estonia also needs to transpose the requirements of the new concession directive, which is currently completely out of regulation. One of the objectives stated in the Green Paper is to enable contracting authorities to make better use of public procurement to support common societal objectives, including environmental protection, increased resource and energy efficiency and the fight against climate change, promoting innovation and social inclusion, and ensuring the best possible conditions for the provision of high-quality public services. In order to achieve this, the new Directives provide for measures that encourage the evaluation of tenders to focus on the lowest life-cycle costs instead of the lowest initial price. In addition, the aim of the draft is to transpose the discretionary regulation of the new directives in such a way that the most suitable solutions are taken into account both in the framework of the new directives and in the Estonian public procurement landscape. Public procurement below the thresholds of the new directives must also be subject to a set of rules that take into account the most important general principles of public procurement: transparency, verifiableness and equal treatment. The regulation must ensure that public funds are used transparently, with uniform rules to be laid down. At the same time, the award procedure must be effective, which means allowing for a certain degree of flexibility to avoid excessive formalism. Access to public procurement must also be transparent and as simple as possible. Unnecessary barriers to the market must be removed, persons participating in public procurement must be treated equally and any restrictions must be legitimate and proportionate to the subject-matter of the procurement. In addition, the supervisory and dispute procedures will be organised and improved. On Thursday, 4 May, the Commission also took the following decisions: to initiate a draft Public Procurement Act by the Economic Commission and to appoint Aivar Kokk as rapporteur. Both decisions were consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U215	There are also questions for the rapporteur. Starts with Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U216	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! When the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft law at its meeting on 4 May, did it also make any fundamental or corrective changes to the text we had in plenary last week? Or did the Commission discuss any more fundamental question as to how to proceed with the draft law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U217	Thank you for a good question. On 4 May, the draft was not amended by the Commission, but suggestions for improvement were discussed, which have also come from this Chamber. In the meantime, we have received an opinion from the EVEA, which generally supports this draft, but also makes its own proposals. The Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has proposed to change some of the commas and wording slightly. Today is the first reading. Before second reading, we will certainly review these proposals and we will include sensible proposals in the draft. I see that both EVEA and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry have good suggestions for improvement, and I believe that the Commission supports them in most of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U218	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U219	Thank you. I'm going in the same direction as the questioner. I hope that the Commission will once again consider the arguments that have become a problem during the last debate and will be ready to listen to the experts who have acted in this area and prepared these drafts. This concerns not only wage restrictions, but also the 70% principle, but also the procedure for the ex-ante control of subcontractors, as well as the procedure for contesting payments and acceptance of works. I hope that the chairman of the committee will be prepared to consider real arguments even during the current procedure, because a law is needed and the opposition is ready to provide support here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U220	Certainly good proposals are supported by the Commission. We can see that there are proposals on the table, both for small businesses and for larger companies, and they are relatively well aligned with this draft. There are only corrections to decimal places, and I, as a judge, see that in many places they are justified. Therefore, these corrections should be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U221	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U222	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. My question, too, continues the two previous ones. You said that the Commission would review these decimal places. In fact, there was a great deal of criticism about the issue of subcontractors here. Are you prepared to take this criticism into account and support the amendments to the bill, which have still come from the opposition?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U223	Thank you for a good question. The Riigikogu has received two proposals from entrepreneurs. One arrived at the Commission today. Yesterday, EVEA was a council meeting, where the proposals for amendments contained in the draft were unambiguously supported. The second amendment has come from the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and concerns subcontracting. They basically support the draft, but they want to make some clarifications in it. If you look at them quickly, they seem justified in most cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U224	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U225	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Do you think this time we will be able to deal with the bill so far that this law will be implemented in its entirety at the same time and it is well known to everyone that every part of this law will be applied on a specific date and no parts will be postponed for a longer period?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U226	Thank you for a good question. I cannot guarantee that today, because some decisions are not up to us, but to what date certain inputs can be made in the tax administration. Our goal is that all the paragraphs will be valid at the same time, but we are waiting for the opinion of the tax administration. The tax office asks for the procurement numbers of all economic operators.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U227	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U228	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I do not underestimate the views of business organisations in the slightest, but I think one very important figure was actually the same big hall here that did not approve the same draft last week. However, this is a somewhat misleading fact, bearing in mind this draft as a whole. If I were not a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I would like to congratulate myself on the work done by the Committee on Economic Affairs, so that this law on public procurement is mostly appropriate and acceptable and welcome. However, one nuance concerning subcontractors is like a tar drop in the honeypot, and therefore the Reform Party did not support the draft, although otherwise we would have supported it. So I do have a request to take this seriously, because the opinion of this Chamber is not of minor importance for the next vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U229	Thank you, Thomas! When I looked at the results of the vote, I saw that 49 people in this hall supported it, and a few were opposed. However, 51 votes in favour were needed and the draft was not adopted as a law last time. So everything is always relative. But I would like to emphasise once again: we have the views of entrepreneurs on the table and, of course, we will take them into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U230	Deniss Borodich.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U231	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm sure you've also heard that a lot of corrupt transactions and opaque business have recently come to light in connection with the Health Insurance Fund. In my opinion, at the time of the previous procedure on the draft law on public procurement, there was also a proposal to make the funding of treatment by the Health Insurance Fund more transparent and fairer. But then it couldn't find any support. Do you think that now that a new procedure is under way, there is hope that the use of sickness fund money will also become more transparent?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U232	Thank you, Deniss, for a good question. I'm going to be a little more specific. It was not the case that the Commission did not support your proposal. The Commission considered that this proposal could be converted into a new draft. I, too, am not satisfied with the work that the Health Insurance Fund is doing now, including how procurement is being carried out there. Bad examples can be found in the troubles. One of the most infamous may be an electric car hook, but the same hospital got another equipment contract a few weeks ago. If you look at the outcome of this procurement and at how the terms of this procurement were put up, it seems to me, as an observer, that this was not entirely justified. And there have been no decisions yet that should have been made at the Health Insurance Fund a long time ago. In any case, I support the fact that we are addressing this issue separately in the Commission. The simple question is that with this bill, as you have heard from my report, it is that 18 April of last year was already the date when it should have been adopted. Hospitals are not a one-day topic. There are 101 members in the Riigikogu, but there are even more interest groups than there are members of the Riigikogu in our Chamber. I'm gonna have to bring it up on the table. After all, you and I discussed a few days ago that we should choose a few areas where we could start a pilot project and show that, in fact, the Health Insurance Fund spends much more money in certain areas than this area requires. Private doctors may have brought services in some areas to Estonia, but now they have also passed on to public hospitals and competition has actually disappeared there. Competition always creates a low price pressure and prices cannot rise to heaven.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U233	Thank you, Mr. Waitress. As Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs, you have struck me twice in a week with a lack of such economic instincts. Yesterday I couldn't answer you and tell you that citizens' housing loans and business loans are very different from public loans. I can't imagine you could come to the remote with this version yesterday. And what amazes me is that in the Public Procurement Act, you have also tended to civil relations, inter-company civil relations, you want to regulate this area nationally. And you've commented on it in such a way that they get so much money to do the job. Please calm me down, I may not be so familiar with this subject: how is it possible that such intervention will not prevent public procurement and will not create endless litigation that owes to whom? And how do you really intend to regulate it, and what resources do you need?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U234	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U235	Thank you for a good question. It's just there's a little difference between us. I'm an entrepreneur, you're a politician, and there's a big difference. I have been an entrepreneur since I graduated from TPI to the end, and I have also created jobs as an entrepreneur. The construction sector is one of my areas, and I may see these things a little bit differently. However, in the case of the draft, we may have to shake the ashes on our heads, perhaps the wording on outsourcing was not the best. The point is very clear. As far as the main contractor and the subcontractor are concerned, it was legalised ten years ago, but I understand that, as a result of the work of certain interest groups, it was out of law that the main contractor always informed the contracting authority of its subcontractors. The point of this bill was that if the main contractor has published the money and the principal has paid the money for the job, the subcontractor who has done the job would have a legitimate hope that he will get his money. The holding of funds between the contracting authority and the main contractor shall be treated only from the point of view of being indebted to the subcontractor. The money's got to be up and down. However, it is very clear that demand for money must be justified. If the subcontractor has done something wrong, of course he does not have the right to receive the money. However, the current situation is that we know a lot of subcontractors who have been working on the Estonian market for at least ten years, but are there any subcontractors who have not been clipped for some procurement, who have lost some money? I don't know any of these. If last Wednesday's draft was not supported here, I received my e-mails from companies that are quite large but are subcontracting, be they ventilation or sanitary or concrete companies. They reported that the main contractor had failed to pay them, and when they turned to the principal, he disowned his hand and said that he knew nothing about it; it was not his concern. This is actually a major concern and most of the construction works are carried out by subcontractors. Main contractors are proper law firms and budgeting offices, they are very good. The fact that the customer knows who works on the site, who these subcontractors are, is not bad. Maybe somebody says it's a huge burden if I need to know the subcontractors. I myself have been the main contractor in the construction of relatively large objects and also the object manager at the same time. I know what it's like to work with subcontractors. It's not easy! But you just need to know every contractor and what he's done. In order to finally get a good job, we have a requirement that subscribers hire supervisors who do this work for the subscriber.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U236	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U237	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! Paragraph 238 of this bill on the entry into force of the Act also sets four different time limits for enforcement. Can you explain what this is about? Why is that necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U238	The Public Procurement Act has three parts and different parts enter into force at different times. If you're looking at exactly what they're dealing with, it's clear why. The last period of entry into force was simply because all parties involved in outsourcing had to know it first. The tax administration had a request for the introduction of what they are currently monitoring to ensure that entrepreneurs also pay official wages. Often, some entrepreneurs are informed that their average wage is considerably lower than the average wage in the region, and they do not suddenly pay envelope wages. Those who have to regulate all of this by implementing the law were asked to think very carefully about the dates to be set so that they could bring their regulations into line with the public procurement law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U239	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U240	Thank you! Mr President of the Commission. I certainly wouldn't have asked you a question, but there was a need when you answered Deniss Borodich's question. We have both been at all the meetings of the Commission, but I do not recall that we have taken the position that you expressed here as the Commission's position. You expressed your views, but not the Commission's view on the possible financing of the Health Insurance Fund under the Public Procurement Act. I am asking from this point of view: since when does the Health Insurance Fund have competence in the Economic Commission? Why is the Committee on Economic Affairs discussing how things should be organised at the Health Insurance Fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U241	Thank you for your question. I may have made a mistake, but I remember very well that when I put this point to the vote in committee, I said that it was a separate draft issue. If the draft is to be submitted to the Riigikogu, I do not know who will deal with it, either the Committee on Social Affairs or the Committee on Economic Affairs. But health is also an industry, so the Committee on Economic Affairs can always discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U242	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U243	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! I refer once again to what happened last Wednesday. I don't dare underestimate the signal from this hall that was given last Wednesday about this law. Yes, 49 votes in favour are more than those opposed, but clearly insufficient for this draft law to be approved. Secondly, you are an entrepreneur, but there are also such entrepreneurs, such as the Chairman of the Management Board of Riigi Kinnisvara AS, who have criticised the part of outsourcing. In the explanatory memorandum, we read that one aim is to reduce the administrative burden. But clearly, the administrative burden on subscribers will increase if this requirement is retained. My proposal and request are still here to cooperate with the opposition. I think it is unreasonable to risk whether or not this bill can now be adopted. If it fails, the European Union will be subject to sanctions because we have not transposed this directive by the deadline.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U244	Thank you, Thomas! As I said before, any suggestions for improvement are welcome. Amendments can be tabled until 5 p.m. on 16 March, and all of them will certainly be discussed in depth by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U245	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U246	Thank you. On the previous question, I asked you to reassure me that there will be no failure in public procurement, and to explain how it is proportionate and feasible to intervene in the financial relations between businesses. Instead, you talked about the difference between us. I can say that I also come from private business, including business consulting. But right now, I am a legislator, like you, and I am still specifically concerned about this and am surprised by this light-handed communication in the area of debt relations and the national decision-making on it. Please reassure me that this is proportionate and reasonable and that these large suppliers who have criticised it do not understand anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U247	I stress once again that we have the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry of major entrepreneurs. The Commission has also not received any suggestions for improvement from state-owned enterprises! At least the chairman of the committee hasn't got one, and if he's been sent somewhere else, I don't know about it. These proposals, which have come from the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry on this same point, are reasonable and I believe that the Commission will support them. You might want to unhook our e-mail, see all the letters that have come to the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U248	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U249	Thank you, President of the sitting. Mr President of the Commission. You have just said that you have not come with a critical opinion. Interestingly, I spoke to the entrepreneurs this morning and they were still very upset about this and pointed to major contradictions. Let me put it this way in short: the problem may not always be the lack of payment to subcontractors. Sometimes it happens that a local sub-contractor takes a couple with the municipality and they go to the main contractor. There are cases like this. To deal with such situations, it would have been a wise time to take it down, discuss it and find a solution acceptable to all parties, not to push the bill through. Why do you still want to push through regulation that obviously doesn't work? Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U250	Thank you, Maris, for a good question. That is the difference between the first and second readings so that all parties can sit at the table and try to find compromises together. You say that you have spoken to one entrepreneur, I can say that I have spoken to dozens of entrepreneurs, including large companies. The same 70% of the average wage is not proposed by the members of the committee, but is actually the offer and wish of the largest construction companies in Estonia that it is included in the draft. For a very simple reason: that there would not be the situation that is currently on the market. A good example is Facio Ehitus, who made offers and pulled a hat on the customers, not to mention subcontractors. We are somehow trying to guarantee that there will be no less bid on the market in such a way that it is known that the latest invoices will not be paid. This bill states that if the difference between the first and second offers is more than 10%, the contracting authority has the right to request additional materials to examine whether the price is real or whether it may happen that during half the work, the contractor says that he is unable to build an object with this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U251	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U252	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! The use of structural tools in construction or when ordering another service is always linked to very clear and rather narrow time frames. Unfortunately, I did not find in this explanatory memorandum how seriously the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed precisely this issue of subcontractors and the main contractor and all remuneration, just when structural resources are in place. Is this not one of the threats that could cause quite serious setbacks for us as a country? It is simply not possible to make use of structural funds because very long disputes arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U253	I should find this place. It is worded in a way that if there is a legitimate claim, the subcontractor will be able to contact the contracting authority. Our point is that the client will not stop all the funding, but he will be able to hold on to the amount that has not been paid to the subcontractor. But it is also clear that the main contractor should explain why he has not paid the money, and if that justification is justified, there will be no retention of the money by the principal. As a result, no procurement should change. If you stick to the whole amount, of course, it depends on the amount, but that's the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U254	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U255	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs. I'm just asking for a memory refresher. When I listened to the question of my colleague, Jaanus Marrand, and then to mention the issue of the Health Insurance Fund and the Social Affairs Committee, I came up with this question. Do I remember correctly that your position, when you didn't sit there, was a little different? The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this sometime and considered that the issue of public procurement was not a matter for the Health Insurance Fund. Is that what it was, or do I remember it wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U256	That's exactly what happened. I repeat: when we discussed the public procurement and Deniss came with his proposal, we said that it should be a separate draft, we are not discussing this issue within the framework of this draft. Everyone in the Riigikogu has the right to submit just such drafts as it considers necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U257	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U258	Thank you. Good chairman of the committee! One clarification first. I have not spoken to one entrepreneur, but to quite a few. The second explanation is that I was the original judge of this draft, I know this draft very, very well. The question is, however, that these last-minute corrections have been put to the fore by the bill, which is very much needed to be adopted. Now it's a little busy. Would it not be wise to delete these improvements, adopt this law and then calmly discuss the matter and find a proper compromise? Are we really expecting this rapid pace again, or are we now calmly putting everything together within a month and discussing these matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U259	Thank you for a good question. It's a question of faith who likes it. At the moment, I stress once again, I have here a letter from the EVEA, which contains yesterday's council decision, which supports the draft, supports the creation of rights by the subcontractor. I also have here a letter signed by Mait Palts, Director General of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, asking for minor corrections. That is my personal opinion, and not the Commission's opinion, the Commission has not yet discussed it, that these are sensible suggestions for improvement. If the Commission supports this, then we will bring these improvements in, and perhaps the problems that have been raised in this questioning-answering process will be resolved in most of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U260	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U261	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I still don't understand your last answer if one of you rules out the other. Does it really rule out discussing business proposals that you are currently withdrawing those amendments that failed to adopt the Public Procurement Act in the Riigikogu? What is holding this debate back? I don't see any contradiction. What are you fighting all the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U262	I don't understand what you're fighting again. The Commission has voted by majority vote on these amendments. I'm one of the people on their side. It is always said in this Chamber that these amendments were made at the last minute, but this is another false legend. Those thoughts were known before I even went to that committee. The fact that the final wording came from the Ministry when the Commission discussed sending the previous draft to second reading is correct. But this topic was in the Commission and in the working group, at least while I was up there all the time. Siim Kisler also claimed that the subject was up there before. So first, the committee decides which amendments it will introduce into the draft and the final decision will be taken by this hall with its 101 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U263	Dear waitress, your seats and your seats have been heard. I will open negotiations to the political groups if that is what you want. Please, on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U264	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Honourable Chairman of the Economic Commission. In general, in universities and schools, if the exam is failed, the next day the same subject will not be taken for the test. It is expected that in the meantime, learning will be repeated, discussed, considered. We also expected us to be able to discuss once again calmly before the Committee on Economic Affairs once again presenting the same public procurement law, which by its very nature is a very necessary and correct law, to the House. We assumed that all these different comments, proposals, questions that were also heard in this large Chamber would be taken into account. But it did not happen, and I regret that, and why, above all, regret it? Because it shows that for some reason we are taking the view that what was revealed as a result of the vote in the Chamber was a game of opposition. This certainly was not just a demonstration of the opposition. I know very well that in the Free Party Group, in the Reform Party Group and in the EKRE Group, almost everyone thinks that this law is very much needed. And so it was certainly not wise to start rushing on May 4th and to give something without changing exactly the same bill procedure. It was a very good opportunity to think about economic policy, to think about what this draft law on public procurement means for our entire economy and for the atmosphere of entrepreneurship, the same two things that we have talked about so much in this Chamber. The faction of the Free Party is of the opinion that subcontractors must be supported. There is no doubt about that! All those who do their job honestly, all entrepreneurs, they are big entrepreneurs or small businesses, must receive a fair reward for the work they have done properly. We should think carefully about how this § 122, which is primarily aimed at a subcontractor, to secure his payment, will best function in our society, and we will really achieve what we have set our goal. The faction of the Free Party supports each entrepreneur to receive his or her fair pay so that our business climate is transparent, everything happens in fair competition and companies can develop by doing the work they want and doing for Estonian society as well. I very much hope that this letter from the Estonian Association of Construction Entrepreneurs, sent primarily by electricity companies, has also reached the Committee on Economic Affairs, because their proposals for this particular section 122 are the same, but much more thoughtful, much better working and much more reasonable. I would like to see the Free Party Group working here to make this good law better, clearer and fairer. I'm not an entrepreneur, I've always been the supplier's side, but I've always stood for the contractor to get his money and get the best result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U265	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 450. The first reading is closed, and I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft by 16 May at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U266	The third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and other laws initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. For the presentation, I invite Aivar Sõerdi, a member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U267	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly present the content of the draft initiated by the Group of the Reform Party. As we know at the end of last year, a law amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and other laws was introduced, which was a comprehensive draft of tax changes, the so-called cluster bill, excise duties on natural gas until 2020. Consequently, the rate of excise duty on natural gas shall be EUR 50,65 per 1000 cubic metres of natural gas from 2018, EUR 63,31 per 1000 cubic metres from 2019 and EUR 79,14 per 1000 cubic metres of natural gas from 2020. The aim of this draft is to abolish the increase in the rate of excise duty on natural gas set at the end of 2016, which would be 95% until 2020, and to restore the rate of excise duty on natural gas to EUR 40.52 per 1000 cubic metres of natural gas. The point is that the increase in the rate of excise duty on natural gas is too steep, thus detrimental to gas consumers, the economy and also to the development of the natural gas market. The purpose of this draft is also in line with the views prevailing in Estonia and throughout the European Union that excise duties on fuels and environmental impacts should be linked. The draft also eliminates a situation where more polluting and energy-efficiently less valuable fuels are taxed at a lower rate. This bill will certainly have a positive effect on the majority of Estonian residents. If, according to the current law, the warm price increases by 20% after an increase in gas excise duty in four years, the impact of this bill will result in a significantly lower increase in gas prices. In Estonia, natural gas uses more than 100000 places of consumption for heating, heating and cooking its home. In business, around 2000 companies use natural gas and the lower rate of excise duty significantly improves their competitiveness compared to the Nordic countries and Lithuania-Latvia. This will, of course, have the most impact on companies with high energy consumption. It can certainly be said that, when this bill enters into force as a law, the accompanying changes will encourage foreign investment to come to Estonia. The growth of investment by existing companies will also be encouraged. The lower rate of excise duty on natural gas will have a positive impact on both consumers and businesses and will also allow for faster growth in the economy. Finally, the effects of abolishing the increase in the rate of excise duty on natural gas. The impact is that if the increase in the excise duty rate is avoided in the coming years, EUR 6 million will not be collected in 2018, EUR 11 million in 2019 and EUR 19 million in 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal is to support this draft. I hope that there will be supporters in the coalition, in addition to the opposition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U268	For now, there are questioners. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U269	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, When the Reform Party Group submitted a draft to cancel the gas excise increase decided by the new government at the end of last year, it was also pointed out that the exclusion of an additional increase in excise duty concerns 100000 households using gas for home heating and water heating. Do you think 100,000 households are big or small?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U270	Thank you for that question. I think that this is reliable information, this figure comes from a letter from the Gas Union, which they sent to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. This really affects a very large proportion of consumers. They have also pointed out that heating costs of one medium-sized dwelling or larger apartment will increase by 110 euros per year due to an increase in excise duty. This represents a significant increase in the cost to domestic consumers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U271	Honourable waitress! No further questions for you. The presentation by the commission is made by Andrei Novikov, member of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U272	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed draft Act No 412 amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and other laws at its meeting on 4 May. Mrs Urve Tiidus made an overview of the contents of the draft proposal. The aim of the draft is to remove further excise duties on gas by 2020 at the end of 2016, as this would have a positive impact on private and legal customers of gas. A situation where more sustainable and energy-efficient fuels would be taxed at a lower level would also have been eliminated. The Commission also received an overview of this draft from the Ministry of Finance, which was not to support draft 412 initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The reasons for non-support are as follows: According to the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance, the revenue collected from the state budget would be EUR 5 million, EUR 10 million and EUR 17 million for the period 2018 to 2020 when the draft came into force. The draft has not proposed a source of financial cover for the changes proposed in the draft. The forecast for gas consumption has decreased, which also reduces the impact of the tax increase on the state budget. In particular, the decrease in consumption is due to the exchange of fuel in the district heating network area of Tallinn. This year, a biomass-fired cogeneration plant will start work on the Tallinn border, replacing 35 million cubic metres of gas. In 2019, a boiler house upgrade will be completed in Mustamäe, resulting in biomass covering at least 35 million cubic metres of gas. In comparison between fuels, natural gas is also taxed at a lower rate than light fuel oil, but slightly higher than heavy fuel oil and oil shale fuel oil other than diesel, and solid fuels coal and oil shale, taking into account the energy content of the increased excise duty. According to the Action Plan of the Government of the Republic 2016 to 2019, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also submitted a memorandum on the possibility of improving the international competitiveness of companies with high energy consumption, reducing the final price of electricity and gas to the meeting of the Cabinet of 9 February. The Government of the Republic is aware that the increase in excise duty may have a more acute effect on certain large consumers than on ordinary consumers. The Government of the Republic has therefore adopted a decision granting these large consumers an electricity excise advantage. As regards natural gas, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will shortly submit a prior notification of State aid to the European Commission in order to be able to reduce the rate of excise duty on gas to companies with higher energy intensity operating in the mineralogical industry, if necessary. The Government of the Republic will take a final decision following a positive response from the European Commission. The Commission meeting asked about the dynamics of consumption and the assessment of the future forecast. The minister's rapporteur assured the members of the Commission that gas consumption would decrease. This is largely due to the replacement of gas by biomass and wood chips. Total gas consumption has decreased by 13% over the last five years and the quantities of natural gas used for heat production have decreased by 19%. Natural gas consumption is expected to decline moderately in the coming years, with an average annual decrease of 2%. The volume of natural gas used for heat production is mainly decreasing. The impact of the change on large consumers was also questioned. The number of large customers was estimated to be around 240 companies, with a financial impact estimated at EUR 2,8 million. An assessment of the possibilities of applying differentiated rates of excise duty to large gas customers was requested. It was answered that this could be problematic, as it could be classified under prohibited state aid given the shortage of large Estonian consumers. However, such a pre-notification has been submitted to the European Commission. It was also mentioned that the Ministry is preparing a request to the Commission for differentiated energy excise duties on high energy intensity production. Final alternatives can be considered after the European Commission's position. The following procedural decisions were taken: to appoint Andrei Novikov as rapporteur for the Commission, to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of 9 May (consensus) and to reject it at first reading (by 6, against 5). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U273	Aivar Sõerd opens the round of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U274	Thank you, manager. Honourable Commission waitress. Today we learned that entrepreneurs are extremely dissatisfied with the coalition's tax and economic policy at all. But I think it's just an introduction. Real dissatisfaction with the removal of jobs, reduced investment, etc. arises when the impact of these tax increases actually arrives. But I am asking you what we discussed in committee. Indeed, the government is developing some kind of state aid package. What is the point of us raising gas excise duties on 2,000 companies and then giving this money back to 240 companies again with subsidies or state aid? What's all this for?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U275	Honourable questioner! I would point out that the purpose of your bill is to reduce excise duties on gas. Of course, if there were to be a reduction, one would be the situation, but if the current situation were to continue, alternatives should be found that can be made possible by different measures, such as compensation for electricity consumption costs or a similar compensation mechanism for gas consumption. Since there may be restrictions under State aid rules, these decisions can only be taken once the agreement of the European Commission has been obtained.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U276	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U277	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You mentioned the reason why the government coalition cannot support this draft: EUR 5, 10 and 17 million will not be collected in the coming years. You are a coalition ambassador and a representative of the Commission, please state the budget lines that are affected by the non-recovery of these amounts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U278	Honourable questioner! I believe that as a person who discussed the state budget several times in this Chamber, you will understand that the budget is complete. There are different sources of costs and revenues and cost planning is based on the level of revenue available. And, according to the coalition agreement, according to the priorities of the government, the lines on which the expenditure is written will also be set according to the amount of revenue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U279	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U280	Thank you, Mr President. The rapporteur from the Commission. I will now take the role of parrot and ask you the same question I asked Aivar Sõerd. As you know, your involvement in the coalition increased gas excise duty considerably at the end of last year. The legislative amendment proposed by the Reform Party to stop the rise in gas excise duties concerns 100000 households using gas for home heating and water heating. Do you say that these 100,000 households are a large or small number of people who would be happy to stop the increase in gas excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U281	I'd say every person is important, 10, 20 or 100,000. I believe that if the Reform Party were to propose a 10% reduction in income tax, for example, then everyone who earns income every day would be delighted. But you have to look at it in a complex way. There are revenues, there are costs and there are mechanisms for the functioning of the state and the financing required for the functioning of the state. From the point of view of each individual, it is certainly a sensible way of functioning a country that is as favorable as possible. However, we must ensure the optimal number of public services, and that is what public revenues are used for.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U282	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U283	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Such a galloping, double increase in gas excise duty over just four to five years would only be understandable to me in one case: if the government coalition had decided to stop consuming gas in Estonia. If this is the case, then it should be said that entrepreneurs can at least count on it. But today it is very difficult for me to look into the eyes of those entrepreneurs who have built their heat or energy economy on gas. And two. You mediated the position of the Ministry of Finance on why they can't support this bill. One reason was that EUR 19 million is very high money. This is indeed a very large amount of money, also in the context of the Estonian state budget, but for these 2000 entrepreneurs and 100000 households it is relatively much higher. The State cannot cope with these disadvantages, but these 2 000 companies and 100,000 households will have to cope with them. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U284	I will answer this by not discussing this issue in the committee, as you did. And, of course, there was more evaluation of your question than the question itself. However, the specific nature of the assessments is that they are subjective.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U285	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U286	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! What would you say to a simple Estonian who is following the debate on this point and sees the government again trying to fill its purse by raising taxes? At the same time, in circumstances where taxes are rising, the state budget is being let down. What would you recommend to this simple Estonian family who should manage reasonably?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U287	I would say to the simple Estonian family that fortunately next year there will be an increase in the tax-free minimum, fortunately investments that will boost the Estonian economy, etc. But your question is not directly related to this bill. If you want to discuss some philosophical issues, we can do it separately. At the moment, the issues could concern the draft we are debating.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U288	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U289	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It has been said here that this bill is not suitable because it has a negative impact on the planned revenue of the state budget. At the same time, certain incentives will be introduced to mitigate the negative impact on business. I would point out that, when these benefits are introduced, firstly, this will also have a negative impact on the state budget. I do not understand why this negative impact is acceptable, but the budgetary impact proposed by this draft is not acceptable. All the more reason we're talking about something that's not done yet. Secondly, it is also a question of the fact that any preferential systems tend to be ineffective and unfair, and that is why it is also a question of the admissibility of State aid. Why, then, are only parts supported and others not? It's an injustice to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U290	Indeed, the support mechanism discussed by the government is aimed specifically at those who are more affected by this increase in excise duty. But certainly, if we look at subsidies generally, be they for private individuals or legal persons, they are by nature redistributive. Someone wins, somebody loses.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U291	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U292	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In your previous responses, you referred to a comprehensive state budget. Now we're talking about reducing gas excises, and you're saying it's losing something. At the same time, we know that in the near future, the government coalition plans to introduce at least six additional taxes. I would ask you the other way around: why is the state budget going up with the money from these taxes? In addition, loans are planned to be granted to companies in order to provide State aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U293	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are, however, discussing Bill 412, and not any other drafts that are likely to come to the agenda next week. My role here is to make a presentation by the Commission and this issue was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U294	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U295	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I am trying to be somewhat more specific on this issue. I ask you this: do you think that this double increase in gas excise duty over four years will strengthen or weaken the competitiveness of our 2000 gas-based companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U296	I would point out that every law is, however, a general act, not an individual act. Therefore, the impact assessment should be based on the overall impact rather than highlighting one or more specific undertakings with different impacts. Of course, any tax increase will have a negative impact; any tax reduction will have a positive effect. It's a common truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U297	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U298	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I don't know if we both mean the same bill. You said that my previous question had nothing to do with this bill. But I received a reply from another of your answers, where you said that nothing else was discussed by the Commission. That is the mistake of this government's attitude not to discuss the whole system and the whole effect. As far as possible, as far as budget implementation is concerned, as many individual decisions are taken. I ask once again: what do you say to the simple Estonian family, who gets certain gifts at Christmas, and when they have taken the presents off and started to consume them, a big bill comes home?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U299	I'm sorry, I didn't understand the connection to Christmas and the fact that the bill came home. Certainly, if some kind of services are consumed, either by gas heating or hot water or by other services, then, on the basis of this consumption, the figures are, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U300	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U301	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! Since I didn't get an answer to my first question, that's what I'm asking. You're saying this bill doesn't fit because there's a minus in the state budget. At the same time, you are talking about this, I stress! just that the government is planning to apply for a state aid permit to grant some of the benefits to companies. Do these benefits not have a negative impact on the state budget? And why is the negative impact that is likely to exist better than the current one? And state aid may not come at all if no authorisation is granted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U302	One thing is targeted at help, the other matter of general assistance. Here, I think we need to look at the overall picture. If there is a general decrease or increase, then it is one sum, if targeted aid is granted, then it is the sum of a completely different order of magnitude, and I believe that the budgetary implications are also different.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U303	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U304	Thank you. Good waitress! When, at the end of last year, you prepared this cluster law in haste and decided to double the gas excise duty by 2020, did you consider any more rational alternatives, or did you base yourself on a simpler solution and the idea that we would step up income tax, double the excise tax rate on gas and let the budget deficit go? That doesn't seem like the smartest idea. And when you tell the voters that we promise you many benefits, but on the other hand you raise excise duties and other taxes, do you not feel that this is a bit hypocritical and that people actually understand it very well?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U305	Honourable questioner, thank you for your question. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that draft law 412 is currently being discussed, not what took place in December or at any other time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U306	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U307	Thank you. Honourable questioner! We are now seeing a very rapid rise in the price level in the Estonian economy. There has been no such inflation in Estonia for years, and it certainly affects a large number of consumer groups, including those who are doing worse. Your fiscal policy steps will also increase inflation, and I think that its impact will be greater than that of giving them back with a finger by granting an exception or exemption. Did you consider in the coalition or in the Centre Party that it would be a good opportunity to forget some very expensive and low-impact election promises and mitigate the impact of rapid price increases?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U308	Honourable questioner, thank you for your question. Despite the fact that this draft was not discussed in the Commission, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are actually in the process of increasing economic growth. I believe that this will smooth out a number of negative effects.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U309	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U310	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You are a representative of the Commission, and that is why I will ask you a little bit more. Did you also discuss at the Commission's meeting which other taxes could in principle be increased or which additional taxes could be developed and imposed by the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U311	Honourable questioner! Tax issues are constantly being discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as they are part of the Commission's work. I believe that next week we will also hear about some tax changes that have different effects. Some changes make it easier to declare, for example, some change the tax rate. This is a completely ordinary process in our committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U312	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U313	Thank you. In previous years, when most of the gas sold in Estonia and the resellers were owned by Gazprom, the Centre Party was very opposed to regulation in this area, price increases, competition. Now that this market is open and the capital of Estonia has become a bigger role, you have started taxing it on a hunch. Is there a logical connection?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U314	There's no logical connection. As far as the origin of gas used in Estonia is concerned, 94% of this is still coming from Russia and the rest from elsewhere. But your references are frankly malicious and have no connection with this draft or any political debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U315	Dear waitress, No further questions for you. Thank you. I will open a round of negotiations for the political groups. Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U316	Honorable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The Free Party Group supports this draft into a law and recognises its initiators. We have heard here on several occasions today that the excise duty on natural gas has already risen at a relatively rapid rate of 20% per year, and there is no reasonable justification for an additional rapid increase. It is noteworthy, in itself, that while the government has been able to come up with some noble cover for other excise increases, for example, when it comes to influencing people's health behaviour, in the case of gas excise duties, the government has never concealed that the rise in which the coalition in December in the law, hidden in this very dirty and cluster law, is merely a desire to fill the state budget. This is how the Government of the Republic, as you may have heard today, announced that this draft cannot be supported, as the state budget will not receive 5 million in the coming year, 10 million in the coming year and 17 million in 2020. The new government coalition simply said it was very clever to use the situation that the price of natural gas on the world market, in the meantime, fell sharply with the price of oil. And there's no other reason for this increase in excise duty, and there's no other reason if you can take it from here, you can grab it from here, so let's take it and grab it. This was not or is not a state-manly behaviour. And, in fact, it makes it quite empty and unconvincing as well as the pretty words of the government about boosting economic growth, business-friendliness and the like. In my opinion, this increase in excise duty is a beautiful cynical phenomenon. Since a rapid increase in the rate of excise duty on natural gas is harmful both from the point of view of the consumer and from the point of view of the large producer, it has already been proven here today. The government's assertions that someday some form of tax relief may be granted to energy-intensive companies are, for the time being, a mist. The government probably hopes that the opponents of excessive excise increases will forget, agree, give up quietly. I'm not giving up on you! I am quite sure that the opposition will continue to propose in this Chamber to cancel unreasonable increases in excise duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U317	Maris Lauri, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U318	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I won't talk for long. My colleague, Aivar Sõerd, spoke thoroughly about why it is important to reduce excise duties on gas. However, I still want to draw attention to some points. 100,000 households are not a small group of people, it is 250,000 - 300,000 people. These are usually people who live in apartments, these are mostly people whose incomes are not very high. It has been said here how the current government, by lowering taxes, will make life better, but by raising this excise duty, it will certainly make life worse for many. He doesn't care about the people he says he cares about. And as my colleague said earlier, it is cynical behavior. I would like to point out another topic that Arto Aas was talking about. I'm going to translate that a little bit. Raising excise duty in a situation where the gas market is opening up, where other gas providers are coming, smells like doing everything to prevent new suppliers from coming, so that we remain dependent on Gazprom. Is that really so? There's one more thing I want to draw attention to. We are also talking here about the government's intention to start supporting large companies that are heavily dependent on gas. Listen, this plan depends on the authorisation of State aid, the authorisation is granted by the European Commission. Getting that clearance isn't certain, it might not come. I also agree with my colleague that it is hoped that it will be forgotten. An empty hope! And even if this authorisation comes, if this option opens up, it is unfair to companies that do not receive this advantage. Let us, then, leave the benefit to all companies. Let us leave everyone the opportunity to use gas in a favorable way, because it is not bad. And above all, let us give people the opportunity to benefit from the reduction in this tax. Now you're taking it off. I very much ask you to support our draft proposal to stop this increase in gas duty, because it is really beneficial for both businesses and ordinary people, and not for a few people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U319	Thank you. There's no more words. The Steering Committee has proposed to reject draft 412 at first reading. We shall put it to the vote, but first we shall proceed to the preparation of the vote. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal from the commission of reference to reject 412 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 48 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal, against 33. Draft 412 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U320	The fourth item is the third reading of draft law 397 on the amendment of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups want to open negotiations? No, it's not. The commission's proposal is to put the draft to the final vote on 397 and we will prepare the vote. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the commission to support this draft. I ask you to take a stand and vote. 72 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Bill 397 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U321	Today's fifth item is the third reading of draft law 386 on amendments to competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No, I don't. In that case, we shall begin preparing the vote. Draft 386 requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu and before the final vote we will carry out a verification of the presence. 65 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, and no 36. I will put to the final vote the draft law on the amendment of the competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in connection with it 386. Please take a stand and vote. 68 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there are no respondents or abstentions. Draft 386 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U322	Today's sixth item is the Energy Economy Development Plan for 2030. On behalf of the initiators, I would like to ask Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, to present a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U323	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll introduce you to the Energy Economy Development Plan for 2030. The previous national energy policy document, the National Development Plan for the Energy Economy until 2020, was approved by the Riigikogu in June 2009. This document, which is now in front of you, should replace it. The adoption of the previous plan was followed by a number of important changes in Estonia's energy policy. Estlink 1 started already in 2007 and was completed in 2014 by Estlink 2, which increased the power transmission capacity between Estonia and Finland to 1000 megawatts. The Estonian electricity market was fully opened to all consumers in early 2013. It was also decided to establish a new Auvere power plant using oil shale and AS Elering acquired the gas transmission network of the state. The construction of the transmission networks between Estonia and Finland and the construction of an additional electricity connection between Estonia and Latvia is underway, which increases the capacity of the interconnections between us by 600 megawatts. Companies operating in Estonia have made major investments to increase the use of renewable energy and oil shale oil production. More than expected, revenues from the sale of CO2 quota have resulted in the reconstruction of district heating systems, apartment buildings and street lighting systems. As a result of the changes that have taken place, we have achieved or are achieving the objectives set out in the development plan. In 2009, we set the goal of changing the energy balance structure of Estonia based on energy consumption, where the share of oil shale in 2007 was 45%. Despite being a domestic energy source, excessive dependence on one energy source increases risks in the energy economy. The share of oil shale in Estonia's energy supply has been steadily decreasing and in 2015 it accounted for a quarter of the energy balance resulting from the consumption of Eesti Energia. At the same time, the role of the oil shale sector in the Estonian energy economy remains important. Oil shale companies have shown their ability to adapt, but their contribution to the competitiveness of the oil shale sector was also due to be given to the country last year. Based on developments over the past years, we can be sure that Estonia will achieve the overall share of renewable energy agreed in the Renewable Energy Directive in 2009. According to the Renewable Energy Directive, by 2020 a quarter of the energy consumed in Estonia will have to be renewable energy. In 2015, this figure was already 28.6%. The changes in the oil shale sector and the introduction of renewable energy sources in recent years increased Estonia's energy independence. In 2015, for the third consecutive year, we were the European Union country with the lowest dependency on energy imports. Two of the targets set for 2020 are still in place, where Estonia, as a country of the European Union, will have to make efforts to fulfil its obligations. I am pleased that the Riigikogu adopted amendments to the Liquid Fuel Act in April, which are crucial for increasing the share of renewable energy in transport. In all EU countries, the share of renewable energy in transport must be 10% by 2020. According to the latest data in Estonia, the share of renewable energy in transport in 2015 at 0.39% is currently available, with the aim of achieving 10% by 2020. Our action on the introduction of renewable energy in vehicles must be robust and effective. The European Union Energy Efficiency Directive agreed in 2012 on a minimum volume of national energy saving measures to be implemented. Tax policy support for investment in Estonia fulfils this commitment to about 95%, but in view of the need to achieve a steady increase in energy efficiency, we need to develop more diverse measures to implement energy saving policy. One solution could be to involve energy companies more closely in the implementation of energy saving policy. Currently, 3% of Estonia's GDP is created in the energy sector and 6300 employees in electricity, gas and district heating companies. The number of workers in sectors closely linked to the energy economy is higher than this. The state of the energy economy affects Estonian companies and residents, and the total costs of Estonian companies account for about 3% of energy and fuel costs. On average, an Estonian resident with one car in his family spends 40 euros a month on heating his home, electricity and purchasing motor fuel. The future of the energy economy affects all our companies and residents, and we must carefully consider the activities of the energy economy in view of Estonia's future. Today's energy economic development plan for 2030 was prepared as early as 2012. It has therefore been dealt with by quite a number of successive coalitions of government. The document distributed to you was sent from the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu on 6 October 2016. So the Riigikogu has had the opportunity to get to know it for more than seven months, but the co-rapporteur will probably be more specific. A large number of specialists from the energy sector and related sectors have actively participated in the preparation of this document. The plan sets out specific principles and targets to be achieved by 2030 in the development of the energy market, security of supply, renewable energy and energy efficiency. I would like to explain in detail the principles and objectives at the heart of the plan, starting with the energy market. The plan foresees that in 2030 Estonia will have to operate a free, non-subsidised and open fuel and electricity market. In the electricity market, in particular, we are currently faced with solutions where the functioning of the free market has been interfered with by regulation, thereby creating advantages for one or another form of energy production. Despite the noble objective of eliminating market distortions, we also face a situation where the support provided is higher than necessary and more burdensome for consumers. In the long term, it will be more beneficial for consumers if the state intervenes as little as possible in the energy market. Price signals for the introduction of more sustainable forms of energy production or for the construction of new generation capacities must be provided by the market rather than by solutions to meet one objective or another, in addition to market-based instruments. With regard to the electricity market, the development plan considers the principle that new generation capacities will be built on the basis of the conditions of the electricity market and that the State will intervene only to meet the capacity criterion for electricity generation or to help the market for new innovative technologies. The gas market is an important part of our energy market. Despite the small share of gas in the Estonian energy market, gas offers the opportunity to reduce problems with fine particles in the air, for example by burning wood in the oven or in the fireplace. This does not mean that the document under discussion will ban domestic stoves or stoves, but it will see the possibility of offering alternatives. The use of gas is subject to the reduction of its supply risks. We request that by 2030 the share of the largest gas supply in the Estonian gas market does not exceed 70% and the share of the largest gas seller will not exceed 32%. The state will contribute to achieving these goals by developing gas infrastructure, where the most important projects in the coming years will build gas connections between Estonia and Finland and Lithuania and Poland. The future of district heating will have a significant impact on Estonian residents. The development plan for the energy economy considers it necessary to maintain district heating systems in regions where they are sustainable and are able to deliver energy solutions that are favourable to consumers and that take into account environmental requirements. In the coming years, we will continue to assess individual district heating systems and, with the support of the European Union, we will help modernise district heating systems where this is reasonable. The country's most important role in energy is to ensure the security of energy supply and energy security for consumers. With the development plan, we are pursuing the greatest changes in the electricity economy. ENMAK 2030 formulates the objective: electricity generation capacity in Estonia is sufficient if the "N-1 + 1" criterion is met, i.e. electricity must be available even if any of the two most important power plants or power plants fall out of the electricity system. Production equipment and power plants located in Estonia must enable all vital services to function at all times. To ensure energy security, the main strategic objective of the state is to synchronise the electricity systems of Estonia and, more generally, the Baltic States with the frequency band which is the leading player in the European Union. Whether the Baltic States join the continental European frequency band from Portugal to Poland or the Nordic frequency band depends on ongoing technical and political discussions. It is of key importance for Estonia to improve energy security with the synchronisation project and to continue the integration of the European Union's energy markets. We support a solution where maintenance costs for the electricity system would be the most favourable, so that the competitiveness of the Estonian economic environment would be improved alongside energy security. We can see that the best conditions for meeting these expectations are now being synchronised with the continental European frequency band through Poland. To this end, cooperation between the Baltic States, the European Commission and Poland should be based, in addition to the already existing separate pipeline corridor, where the transmission line between Lithuania and Poland would be located. The people of Estonia are most affected by interruptions in the distribution network from the point of view of the security of electricity supply. With the development plan, we want the average Estonian resident in the future to face disruptions in the distribution network 2 to 3 times less than so far. To this end, we need to achieve a climate-proof network in the distribution network of 75 to 80% instead of the current level of around 37%. We do not need to change the general principles of network charging for this purpose, but the development plan provides for a distinction between performance indicators for distribution networks depending on consumption density and potential disruption damage. The development plan also provides specific targets for the development of sustainable energy. The share of renewable energy in energy production can continue to increase in Estonia. With the development plan, we aim at 50% of domestic final electricity consumption from renewable energy sources in 2030. In the electricity market without significant distortions, it is possible that new renewable electricity installations will be built on the conditions of the electricity market opened in 2030 without additional national subsidies. The use of local fuels and, in particular, local renewable energy sources can also be expanded in the production of heat. With the development plan, we aim to produce 80% of the heat produced in Estonia from renewable energy sources in 2030. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In the past decade, we have been able to influence the Estonian energy sector in the direction we want. In this way, the structure of energy production has become more diverse and the development of infrastructure contributes to the improvement of security of supply. In the coming decade, however, in order to achieve the long-term objectives of energy and climate policy, we must also be able to have a clearer impact on energy consumption. So far, energy consumption has been driven by changes in the economy, and the impact of national measures on final energy consumption in Estonia has been very small. Energy saving will focus on two segments of final energy consumption: energy saving and transport of buildings. Energy use in these forms three quarters of Estonia's final energy consumption. Estonian buildings need updating. There are not many buildings that meet today's standards of thermal insulation in Estonia, and due to the lack of energy efficiency in buildings, consumers need to buy a number of sharp-hours more energy than is needed to maintain a good indoor climate in efficient houses. The modernisation of housing also affects the availability of housing in good condition for the population. In the event of a slow pace of reconstruction, due to the lack of state reconstruction grants, in 2030 around a few hundred thousand Estonian residents live in a house whose technical situation is bad due to its lack of modernisation. In order to preserve the housing fund and reduce energy consumption in buildings, we need to find ways to continue supporting the reconstruction of housing. By 2030, we want half of Estonian apartment buildings and 40% of small houses to meet the current minimum energy efficiency requirements. The total net area of buildings occupied by the central government must be 37% in buildings complying with the minimum requirements in force. Of these targets, the reconstruction of central government buildings will have the most negative impact on the state budget. Due to the large involvement of the private sector in the reconstruction of small and apartment buildings, where the private sector finances about two thirds of the cost of reconstruction works, tax revenue is as high as the possible cost of reconstruction grants to the state. In the absence of reconstruction grants, the renovation of residential buildings will stop, i.e. dozens of small construction companies will have to find a new market. A serious challenge for Estonia is to curb the growth in fuel consumption of vehicles. The measures considered in the design of the development plan can prevent the growth of energy consumption in transport. With the development plan, we request that the fuel consumption of the fleet in 2030 does not exceed the 2012 level. This requires decisions that affect people's preferences in their choice of means of movement and of goods. You can find the background, for example, on page 52 of the document. During the last ten years, the use of passenger cars has increased by 50% in Estonia, while public transport and its use are decreasing. So the development plan is trying to change that direction. In a little over half a day, we will begin the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. One of the most important and most extensive areas of work during the Estonian Presidency is the discussion of the draft new, clean energy package. These drafts will be guided by the European climate and energy policy targets decided by the European Council in autumn 2014. The targets of the new Energy Economy Development Plan are in line with planned trends in Europe. When the development plan is soon to be approved, we are one of the first countries in the European Union to have endorsed the national basic documents to achieve the 2030 climate and energy policy objectives. Under the State Budget Act, which was substantially amended in 2014, sectoral development plans are usually approved by the Government of the Republic. The Riigikogu can give an opinion on the draft development plan submitted to the Government of the Republic. I hope that you will agree with the principles and objectives that I outlined in my report. It is certain that in the coming decade Estonia will have a lot of work to do in the energy economy and related sectors. I also count on the support of the Riigikogu in implementing the development plan. I will also mention in the Rules of Procedure that the document was drawn up in 2012 and, as a basic document, it got between the covers at the end of 2014. After that, experts were consulted for two years. Therefore, in October the Government of the Republic provided some statistical data from 2013. We have now updated this data within six months on the proposal of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Since this has been input from the Committee on Economic Affairs to the government, an updated data file has already been sent, with the latest data from 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U324	There are also questions for the rapporteur. First Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U325	Good minister! I am very pleased that in just a few months in the government, your views have changed to 180 degrees. If, in the past, the Centre Party has opposed all proposals concerning opening up the electricity market, opening up the natural gas market, increasing security, improving security of supply, and focusing only on the short-term price impact, I can see that your idea has changed in the very right direction. You support the vision of a market-based and free competition-based energy market, and that is very good. In this respect, the question is: how can we actually achieve a situation by 2030 where renewable energy does not need support? At the moment these subsidies are, they are very large and, unfortunately, they have not been able to put an end to them. According to the pending draft, these grants will continue to be paid for a certain amount of 12 years and fewer offers will come later, etc. The renewable energy sector is highly linked to its subsidy scheme. How do we still achieve the transition to a market-based model?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U326	Thank you. First of all, the first part of the question. The Centre Party has always stood for energy to be more accessible to the final consumer, for people to have no pointless high fees. I think this year we have managed to achieve quite a breakthrough by reducing the network charges according to the order of the Competition Authority. It has not been possible to demonstrate such a reduction in network charges before. The Electricity Market Act is now waiting for a third reading in the Riigikogu. I think that, once this law is passed, we will take a pretty long step forward in the plan that renewable energy production will no longer need the expensive support scheme that it now needs in 2030.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U327	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U328	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Have you ever planned on buying electricity from Norway? If so, what are the trends? It seems that there is a lower price than in Finland, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U329	We have had an open electricity market for several years, where the electricity we consume may not have been produced in Narva Power Plants. Investments in current and future investments in our connections will certainly contribute to the connected electricity space. Therefore, coming back to the question of Arto Asa, I do not accept the argument that we have been against investments such as Estlink 1 or Estlink 2. Any better interconnection, less energy dependence, will ultimately also benefit our final consumers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U330	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U331	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I'm probably just as big a dilettante as I am, as, frankly, in my field of expertise, you are, unfortunately, too. In this sense, the situation of political ministers is extremely difficult. The area is highly problematic, and I think that it is difficult for people who do not know all these terms very well to understand the whole development plan. That is why I dare ask such a question to broaden my own knowledge: how much oil shale should be extracted annually? I liked a couple of nice terms here. Did the future belong to the dust burning of oil shale in a boiling bed boiler? I even thought it was a misprint or rather a retort process?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U332	Thank you for your question. The Energy Development Plan is not a substitute for all existing development plans. The National Development Plan for the Use of Oil shale for 2016 has been adopted and discussed in the Riigikogu. This provides input for ENMAK 2030. I believe you also read this bill and remember what was answered back then. Now this comment that I'm not an energetician. Indeed, it is not, and it is therefore a good thing to say that the implementation of this ENMAK will not be led politically. For this purpose, the Energy Sector Commission and the Energy Council of MKM will be set up under MKM. The members of the MKM Energy Council will be a number of umbrella organisations, research institutions, larger energy companies and representatives of larger energy consumers active in the field of energy economy. So today is not the final finish, we have the opportunity to set up a Commission that will continue to operate on a sectoral basis within this framework.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U333	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U334	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You don't often hear from your mouth that positive decisions have been made in the last decade, at least what you talked about in the remote, that was the idea. Here earlier, Andrei Novikov argued that the coalition and the government are planning to find additional bonus packages for energy-intensive businesses. If you listen to the review of the development plan, one of the goals is clearly to find more alternatives to oil shale. What is this accent, why should we make further concessions to very energy-intensive operations based on the fact that we want to reduce the share of oil shale?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U335	The future of oil shale, even if we want to reduce the share of oil shale in electricity production, belongs to the production of electricity from oil production and residues from oil production. It's in this document too. As such, oil shale remains a strong role in Estonia. Now it is why we are trying to make exceptions to large-scale productions, whether electricity or gas-intensive, which has not yet been granted in Estonia. Because such exceptions exist in our immediate vicinity. Since energy is a very large input to the production price, it makes choices on where to invest. We cannot rule out the whole sector because there are electro-intense productions that can still be located somewhere. As a result, we have discussed the issue in the government and also found the means to make this exception in the country's budgetary strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U336	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U337	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! After reaching page 27 in the cages of this document, point 3.2.1 states that in the distant future, the Estonian electricity transmission network will be synchronised with the frequency band in the European Union. I want to get smarter. What does that mean? What do you need it for? What's it gonna cost? Does this contribute to our energy security in any way, or why is all this important?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U338	Yes, so far we are working as part of the synchronous area of north-west Russia and Belarus. Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have nine connections. The aim is now to de-synchronize this area and join the European frequency. It's not cheap and not just for us. It is also not cheap for Poland, which must invest in its readiness. It's been talked about for ten years. We have reached the point that on Monday, the Prime Ministers of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland met here, who also reached a discussion on this issue. The exact price that the total cost is, cannot yet be calculated at this point in time. The Joint Research Centre with the European Commission has carried out a study on the various possibilities for the Baltic States to de-synchronise, but has not taken into account the costs incurred, either by the Nordic countries or by Poland. So, right now, we're working on a cost assessment. Why do you need it? Above all, this is a matter of energy security.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U339	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U340	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. I'd touch domestic solid fuels. I remember when we discussed this ENMAK in the Committee on the Environment, I asked about peat, which is important as local fuel. It is stated in this plan that this use and capacity could be 3 terawatt-hours at all, but there is not much talk about solutions here. At the time, too, the question remained as to how to encourage the use of peat in the same way was the problem of granting subsidies for the renovation of boiler houses, the other way around with EU directives. Can you name the solutions that ENMAK envisages then?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U341	I am afraid that this document does not concern the promotion of the use of peat. On the contrary, security is seen as a solid fuel, which is not intended to be banned, but if it is used, just as in the case of briquettes, the health risks of air pollution are greater in those areas where fuel causes such airborne fine particles. So I can't tell you what page this thick document deals with promoting peat use. The way I read it, I don't remember talking about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U342	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U343	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As we know, we have a number of important and even more important strategic documents in the country. Often, all the words read in them are very true. And here I also read that it is necessary to promote research and development to implement this development plan in absolutely all areas of transport, the energy economy, electricity supply, the heat supply of buildings, the indoor climate, etc. On the other hand, it has been said right here that a separate programme will be drawn up. We know that the mid-term evaluation of all R &amp; D has given a very critical assessment of both the teaching of energy technology and a number of other areas. How will we now proceed in the area of research and development?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U344	A little more will be invested in R &amp; D than so far in the energy sector as well. There will be no overnight revolution in this area. But the direction to prioritise R &amp; D is in this document.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U345	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U346	Thank you. Dear Minister, On the morning of June 24, last year, everyone read the news and discovered that a big mess had begun called Brexit. Recently, campaigns have been organised in Estonia under the name Põx, which should mean exiting oil shale energy. What is your position on this? Doesn't it make Brexit and Põx look like a crazy mess that, after all, might be a little hard to manage like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U347	Yes, we had the pleasure of participating in this discussion of the Põxit panel. It also said that we should not give up oil shale as Estonia's own energy source. At the same time, of course, we must look at it, especially when oil prices rise, so that oil shale is produced first and foremost by oil shale oil and by-products of oil production is electricity production. I also met yesterday with the leaders of the Energy Union and I assured them: the government is contributing to our ability to produce electricity on our own. The idea of shutting down companies in this sector has not even been put on the table at government level; it has not been discussed. This would not be the right step for Estonia's energy security.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U348	No further questions. Thank you very much for the waitress. I would like to ask Siim Valmar Kiisler, Member of the Economic Commission for a chair as rapporteur for the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U349	Honourable manager! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Economic Commission has discussed the development plan for the energy economy at three meetings. Two of them were ordinary Commission meetings and one was an open session, with representatives of the target groups invited. First, on January 17, the Bible said: " a ordinary meeting of the Commission, attended by Minister Kadri Simson and Vice-Chancellor Ando Leppiman, of the Ministry of Energy and Construction of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, who presented the development plan, just as the Minister of Economic Affairs did here today. That's why it wouldn't stop for a very long time. I'll give you a couple of points. Ando Leppiman said that the development plan seeks a balance between the three axes of energy availability, energy security and the environmental dimension. The Deputy Secretary-General noted that with the first two of them, we are doing well, i.e. with access and security of supply. The challenges are more on the environmental side. We have room for improvement, both in terms of energy savings and in terms of reducing energy intensity. The second aspect that I would point out is what Ando Leppiman said in addition. The energy intensity of the economy is compared between countries and is demonstrated by final energy consumption per gross domestic product. Estonia's energy intensity is very high, Estonia uses energy four times more per unit of GDP than Finland. Jaanus Marrandi said that Estonia's GDP is simply too small, but that is why. The third aspect. When Mr Metsoja asked about the use of peat, Vice Chancellor Leppiman explained that since peat is not considered as renewable energy, the use of peat in the energy sector also requires the purchase of an emission allowance and this makes it too expensive to use peat there today. A major open meeting of the Commission took place on 11 April. a. In particular, representatives of organisations and companies who had been involved in the development of the development plan in the Ministry since 2012. I will also bring out some aspects that have been brought to the attention of representatives of companies and organisations. First of all, the representative of the Estonian House for Renewable Energy Rene Tammist said that while ambitious targets have been set for renewable energy, he believes that Estonia could do more. He said that the proposal of the House for Renewable Energy was to formulate a long-term target for the full transition to renewable energy. The Estonian representative of the World Energy Council, Mihkel Härm, generally praised the development plan for the energy economy and said that it was up-to-date, but asked whether the dynchronisation of the Estonian electricity network was necessary and whether the electricity network should be synchronised with that of Northern Europe or Continental Europe. That's what Andres Ammas was asking. The answer of Vice-Chancellor Ando Leppiman was that negotiations are currently taking place with the European Union to find out what to synchronise with and to draw up a timetable for this. The objective of realising this project must be to ensure that it is carried out at the lowest cost and security of supply. Elering's representative, Kalle Kukk, pointed out that digitalisation was not mentioned in the development plan and that the possibilities contained in it should be taken into account. However, Elering recommends adopting the development plan because the objectives are correct, but more use needs to be made of IT solutions. Ando Leppiman replied that the future of distribution networks depends on the extent to which we are able to manage production and consumption and also to produce electricity ourselves, that the close connection between information technology and energy is natural and maybe that is why it has not been so thoroughly written. Commission President Aivar Kokk pointed out that there were no measures to improve energy efficiency in the rail sector and asked what measures were planned to improve energy efficiency in the transport sector. Ando Leppiman replied that the impact of electrification of rail or substitution of road transport by rail would be less than the impact of differentiated fuel taxation. The government is developing a concept of car tax to help achieve this objective. That was the state of the moment. The representative of Eesti Gaas, Raul Kotov, asked about the impact on Estonian industry of reducing gas consumption, while large investments are being made to ensure the security of gas supply. Ando Leppiman said that the share of renewable energy in district heating could increase to 80% of total consumption. As a result, gas grid tariffs may become too burdensome for today's consumers. The country is looking for new uses of natural gas without hindering the deployment of local and renewable energy sources. Electricity could also be produced from natural gas in the long term, although market prices do not currently favour it. The government has discussed that excise duties on natural gas and electricity could be differentiated for large consumers. It's a discussion place. Aivar Kokk pointed out that the use of wood chips in energy leads to the price of wood and that the burning of wood produces more carbon dioxide than, for example, the burning of gas. Ando Leppiman explained that carbon dioxide from the burning of wood is reduced to zero in the European Union's climate policy, as the new carbon will not be recycled. Biomass efficiency is close to 90%, which means that it is also a sensible activity in view of energy efficiency objectives. Toomas Kivimägi pointed out that the price of electricity in Estonia is one of the highest for the final consumer and asked whether it was intended to apply preferential measures to large consumers and whether it was also intended to introduce innovative ideas that could lower the price of electricity. Ando Leppiman replied that the price of electricity for the final consumer, together with taxes and renewable energy charges, is below the European average in Estonia, both in absolute terms and in terms of purchasing power parity. The problem is the servicing of large consumers. Other countries have reduced network charges or renewable energy charges for large consumers and energy price caps have also been set. Erki Savisaar asked why oil shale was not considered renewable energy. Ando Leppiman explained that he could not comment in the details, but oil shale ash does not bind carbon dioxide to the same extent as it emits in the combustion process, and therefore it is not renewable energy. Ants Noot, representative of the Estonian Gas Association, noted that he felt that the development plan was unbalanced, too inclined towards local renewable energy and away from gas. We were talking about the price of electricity again. Timo Tatar, a representative of the Ministry, explained that most of the time the electricity exchange price in Estonia and Finland is equal and that less investment in networks or increased consumption would be needed to reduce network charges. In Estonia, network charges are higher, as the costs of maintaining the network in Finland are shared between larger consumer communities. In order to reduce network charges, energy efficient industries must be attracted to Estonia. It is currently planned that electricity consumption will remain at the same level in Estonia until 2030. At the end of the day, we spoke again about desynchronousization. The representative of the World Energy Council, Mihkel Härm, said that this should still be discussed again as to whether this desynchronousisation is reasonable. Ando Leppiman replied that desynchronousisation was a political desire based on energy security. This is a brief overview of the Commission's open session. For the third time, this plan was discussed at the meeting of the Commission on 2 May, where procedural decisions were taken: to put the development plan on the agenda of the plenary session on 10 May, it was a consensual decision: another consensual decision was to submit to the assembly as additional material the text of the updated statistical data development plan received from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U350	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that it is possible for all members of the Riigikogu to ask a question to each of the rapporteurs. So if you wish, all those who have already asked Minister Samson can also ask the question. Kalle Palling first, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U351	Thank you for this thorough review. Indeed, the movements of all the people in the village and of the members of the Commission were accurately recorded, not to mention their words. But since these opinions were so bouncing from one side to the other, I ask that if the priorities for the coming years in Estonia's energy policy should now be ranked, what would be the three most important and in what order? Whether it's synchronising or desynchronous and then synchronizing, is this, I don't know, 'Home expenses down! ', which was once a very close slogan to your heart, is it, for example, a reduction in renewable energy subsidies, or even an end to them, an improvement in the oil industry, an increase or a completely so-called 'Turn'? I asked Kadri Samson that too, but what do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U352	Thank you. Well, first of all, I have to say that I did not point out the views of all the guests at all, but somehow tried to select the most important ones among them. The debate was much longer and more comprehensive, as is appropriate for this long and comprehensive development plan. However, the objectives of energy policy are set out on page 13 of this development plan, and here I think it is very important that the free, non-supported and open fuel and electricity market works first, that the power generation capacity in Estonia is sufficient and that the electricity system is synchronised with the frequency band controlled in the European Union. These are perhaps the three most important ones in my view, but there are still lists here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U353	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U354	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The honourable minister also mentioned that the share of gas is relatively low, but then it will be completely unclear why there is a need to increase the excise duty on gas. You mentioned in your speech that in fact, energy-efficient activities should be attracted to Estonia. At the same time, it is planned to provide support for energy-intensive operations. I'm going to ask you, isn't there a contradiction here? Is it not undermining the proportion of the introduction of certain alternative energy sources and the pressure on oil shale that will not increase because we are granting incentives for energy-intensive operations? Don't you see a certain contradiction here? Shouldn't we be acting the other way around?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U355	I understand that the prerequisite for the development plan is that energy use in existing production becomes more efficient and ultimately the volume of energy consumption in Estonia remains broadly the same. Perhaps then we could further attract production here, in particular energy efficient production, at the expense of the volume released.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U356	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U357	Thank you. Firstly, I take this opportunity to remind the Minister who was in the Chamber, who was concerned about the price of electricity, that the price of electricity has been even more favourable in the open market than in the captive market. So, in any case, free competition is in the interest of consumers. However, I would ask Mr Kiisler what has changed in the energy economic development plan over the last few months. We can see that there has been an increase in the rental house programme, probably under the pressure of the social democrats. Has anything else changed with the change of government? I remember this debate, from the past, an enormous attack on the interests of the wind-energy business. Have any percentages, limits or targets changed significantly here? Later on, there will be a reference to the development plan, a request for grants, a request for certain policies. All of this materializes, all of which could mean billions of euros in costs or revenues for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U358	Thank you. Since the government submitted this draft development plan to the Riigikogu, the latest data have been received in the tables that are in this development plan and the updated text has been sent to the Riigikogu for information. So only data has been updated, not the content of the development plan. Simply data from later years have now become available. We are officially processing the version that the government has submitted. In addition, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has also provided us with a housing supplement, but this is not part of the development plan sent to the Riigikogu from the Government of the Republic. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has informed the Commission that the Government wishes to incorporate this annex into the Energy Economy Development Plan. The final decision is known to be made by the government, not by us here. The intention is to add this housing supplement to the development plan. No other changes have been made here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U359	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U360	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'm still going on with the peat issue, because it's driving me so hard on my mind. I read page 64 of the development plan and see that, given the considerable energy potential of peat, its local origin, its good availability and the favourable price compared to other energy carriers, opportunities to encourage the deployment of security equipment should be improved. On the other hand, you pointed out Ando Leppiman's speech, which made it very clear that security is too expensive, expensive and unreasonable. Now, where is this anomaly between plan makers and waitresses? Is it really because, in Europe, security continues to be considered as an issue of CO2 and is not intended to be dealt with in the context of the development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U361	Obviously here this contradiction is that the desire to use more, and the development plan also refers to it, but real life shows that in the current context it is expensive. But what businesses have pointed out, and what I can add for my part, by quoting from the text of the development plan, is that the wider deployment of peat has been hampered, for example, by restrictions on its use in boilerhouses established with the aid of investment subsidies granted by the State and in CHP plants. Certain commitments were made at the time when the grants were applied for. Among the commitments, there was no use of peat, and now the requirements for obtaining support are met that do not include the use of peat. And in its own way, it simply blocks such a flexible transition to use peat. Even if the companies might want to, I find it difficult to say this with certainty, cannot speak on behalf of the companies to switch to peat, they are linked to earlier investment support.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U362	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U363	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Browsing this development plan caught my eye on the issue of energy security. From the point of view of ensuring this, instead of continuous generation of electricity from oil shale, it becomes more important to have the capacity to extract oil shale so that the need can be directed towards producing oil shale electricity. That's what I read in the development plan. Maybe you'll open up a little bit of energy security. How much did you discuss in your committee? How much oil shale should be mined a year to make us feel confident? I didn't get that answer from the minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U364	Interestingly, we did not discuss oil shale issues in the Commission for a very long time. Rather, other subjects were discussed, as I pointed out to you. From the point of view of energy security, it is important that we have production capacities or, as an alternative, good connections in order to buy more energy from elsewhere. On the other hand, security of supply is so that our equipment is reliable. The third point that has already been mentioned here today is the question of synchronization with which energy grid we are synchronized with. Why it clearly states here the political will to be in a single room with the countries of the European Union, not with Russia and Belarus, is that otherwise a country outside the European Union would have the opportunity to influence our security of supply. But we must take this into account in the future, too, that oil shale is our largest source of electricity generation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U365	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U366	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! First of all, thank you for a very thorough review, as well as for a very good choice from the public debate you have presented here today. But my question, which I then asked Ando Leppiman, was still borne out by the concern that electricity prices for energy intensive companies are significantly higher than in our immediate region, compared to Finland and Sweden. The European Union average is not helping us here; we are competing when we are talking about investments in the paper industry, for example, especially with Finland, but also with Sweden. In fact, Ando Leppiman claims one thing, the entrepreneurs claim another. At this same meeting, I asked Ando Leppiman to provide an overview of electricity prices, of course with transmission charges, excise duties and renewable energy charges, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Finland and Sweden. I have missed a committee meeting, but I have not received this paper. Has it come to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U367	No, I haven't. I would add so much that during the public consultation, Tõnis Vare, the representative of the Electricity Industry Association, pointed out that the price methodology was harmonised only this year, which is why earlier price comparisons may not always give the right picture. His view was that the price of electricity in Estonia is more expensive, mainly due to the price of renewable energy. In many countries, renewable energy is not included in the price of energy or is only partially included. Another thing is that there is a lower fixed fee for network charges in Estonia than for neighbours. If the fixed fee is lower, business customers will subsidise the consumer. This is definitely a question that could be discussed in Estonia. If we have a large number of consumers whose consumption is essentially close to zero but who need to be guaranteed consumer security at all times, it is now paid for by larger consumers. This will, of course, make our competitiveness worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U368	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U369	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Commission waitress. I am asking about the energy efficiency of buildings. Looking at the targets set, I see that the target for nearly zero-energy buildings by 2020 is relatively low. Did the Commission discuss the appropriateness of this benchmark and also whether it could not or should not be higher?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U370	No, it wasn't discussed separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U371	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U372	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, My question concerns the production of biofuels and, in this context, the planned introduction or increase of unused agricultural land. Would you expand this issue a little and appreciate how competition will then develop between agricultural production and biofuel production. What types of biofuels could make us popular? Will this affect the price of land before and after 2030?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U373	Thank you. I'm sorry you didn't ask the Minister such a thorough question. I must admit that I am not very familiar with this area personally, but there was also no more in-depth debate in the Commission. I can say so much that the answer to your last question, whether it affects the price of the land, is certainly yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U374	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thanks to the waitress! It is now possible to open negotiations for members of the Riigikogu. Any requests? Doesn't look like it. As the Riigikogu does not take a decision on this item, the item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U375	The seventh item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Traffic Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, would you like the initiator to present his speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U376	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The government has submitted a bill to you to amend the law on traffic and state fees. The amendments are the result of changes in European Union law. The aim is to make the vehicle roadworthiness system more flexible for people without compromising road safety. Cars registered in Estonia and their trailers must undergo roadworthiness tests at a certain frequency, which check their compliance with the established requirements, i.e. their suitability for road traffic. In the event that deficiencies are detected in the technical condition of the vehicle leading to the failure of the vehicle to undergo roadworthiness tests, the use of the vehicle in traffic is essentially prohibited under the current law. Only a repair site, a parking space, a service office of the Road Administration and a inspection station are allowed. Such a restriction is not always justified, as in the case of all deficiencies the vehicle does not pose a risk to traffic which should result in its immediate withdrawal from use. The purpose of the amendment is to allow the use of a vehicle in traffic for a specified period of time which, while showing significant deficiencies, nevertheless does not present such a risk that the use of the vehicle should be restricted immediately. This gives people the opportunity to repair the vehicle within a certain period of time and then go back to the roadworthiness test. At the same time, daily journeys can continue. Another major change is the abandonment of the obligation to test vehicles used in the smaller islands of Estonia. Due to the very low traffic density in the smaller islands, roadworthiness tests are not as important in terms of ensuring road safety as in the densely populated areas. There are no inspection points in the smaller islands, which is why the Road Administration carries out roadworthiness tests there. However, this activity is burdensome for the State as the amount of the state fee does not cover the actual costs incurred by the Public Road Administration in carrying out inspections in the smaller islands. The increase in the state fee was not planned as the costs of vehicle roadworthiness and the benefits of road safety would not be balanced for the inhabitants of the smaller islands. However, these vehicles are still subject to technical requirements. For example, if a police check reveals that a vehicle is dangerous for road traffic use, the police officer may remove the driver from driving such a vehicle. Such relief applies to vehicles used only on small islands, i.e. islands other than Saaremaa, Hiiumaa and Muhu. In order to travel on the mainland or on the large islands, the vehicle must first be taken to the nearest inspection station. As a third major change, the Public Road Administration will be able to revoke the roadworthiness test of a vehicle tested in another Member State of the European Union if significant technical deficiencies have been detected. In such a case, the national authority shall send to Estonia, in accordance with European law, a notification informing that the vehicle has been inspected and that significant or dangerous deficiencies have been detected and recommending that the vehicle should undergo a roadworthiness test again. According to the current law, the Road Administration does not have the right to revoke roadworthiness tests in such a situation. The amendment only concerns commercial vehicles, as such information on passenger cars is not exchanged in the Member States of the European Union. In addition, manipulation of the car mileage meter, which has been a long-standing problem in the market for used cars, will be made punishable by the adoption of the draft. The purpose of this type of fraud is to show the vehicle better than the actual one and thereby deceive the bona fide buyer, since the market value of the vehicle may in certain cases depend heavily on the reading of the odometer. Therefore, the Traffic Act provides that such activities are prohibited and that in the event of a breach of this requirement it is possible to impose a financial penalty of up to EUR 200 on a natural person or EUR 1800 on a legal person. At the meeting of the Economic Commission, there was also the question of whether these penalty rates were too low. The Ministry considered this issue and we intend to propose to the Committee on Economic Affairs to increase this penalty and impose a financial penalty of up to EUR 400 on natural persons and up to EUR 3200 on legal persons for such acts. Thank you for your attention. I'm waiting for questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U377	We, in turn, thank the Minister for his presentation and there are questions. First Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U378	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You noted in your report that life is going to be more flexible. I'm telling you, so far the life review was pretty flexible. In some places, pensioners, for example, received half-price reviews, cheaper than others. But there is now one point that the Minister will set the price caps. We did well so far, but what happens now? Maybe the inspections will get a lot more expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U379	So far, the price caps are not fixed by ministerial decree. These price caps actually create a uniform price scheme and this draft law really empowers the Minister to fix the price limit by means of a regulation. Are prices getting more expensive? Prices are converging. Why do you assume that the aim should be to create price increases in roadworthiness tests? The minister is trying to set the price at which the actual cost of work is taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U380	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U381	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! My question is about abandoning the requirement for roadworthiness tests in the small islands. I dare say that, in fact, at the initiative of the Road Administration, this has already been quite flexible. This means that it has not been necessary to transport the car to the mainland, but the employees of the Road Administration have themselves visited the premises to inspect the cars and carried out a roadworthiness test under a simplified procedure. What was the main motive for abandoning the requirement for simplified roadworthiness tests? Was it the same traffic density you were referring to, was it the initiative of the Road Administration, or was it the desire of the local community? Indeed, in the islands, life goes a little by other rules. Or was it a directive of the European Union or something else? Secondly, do you admit that there is a slight increase in the risk of continental people on these islands? Once again, I would rather understand these views, especially after today's conversation with Ahto Ilves at the Road Administration, but I ask your opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U382	As I said in the report, the fact that no roadworthiness test is being carried out does not mean that you can drive a machine with dangerous defects. I can only guess what the intention was for this law to be drafted. I wasn't at the beginning of this development. However, I do have on my desk data showing that since the adoption of the Traffic Act, even in the smaller islands, roadworthiness tests have been carried out, i.e. since 2011, the Road Administration has carried out inspections of the technical compliance of 291 vehicles in the smaller islands. So, broadly speaking, it has not been very massive and it is expected that this change will have a positive effect on the inhabitants of the smaller islands who use vehicles with which they will never leave the island. The Commission also asked whether this change could cause them some problems with regard to insurance. I studied it, and I got the answer that there would be no need to have been a roadworthiness test for insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U383	Einar Vallbaum, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U384	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, We international car drivers have such a concern that why we have to bring our car home to Estonia for technical inspection, if it is a year, two, three abroad. All previous ministers have promised to resolve this problem. For example, Lithuanian carriers can carry out inspections in Germany, Sweden and Denmark, as we are all members of the European Union. Why do Estonian carriers not have this opportunity, and can it now be resolved in such a way that we can carry out technical inspections in other countries as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U385	Not with that law. I have also asked the Ministry why several previous ministers have made this promise, but no action has been made. In autumn, it is planned to launch a bill where these problems will be solved in a complex way and where it should also be stipulated that we will recognise an accredited supervisor in another European Member State. The problem is currently the coordination with the Ministry of Justice, who wishes to analyse whether the Estonian state can delegate such supervision tasks to another state. I believe we can overcome this problem, and in the autumn the solution is here as a draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U386	Raivo Põldaru, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U387	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. When you were sitting in the hall, you fought fiercely for people, but now you want to regulate another situation that the market has regulated anyway, because the number of inspection posts in Estonia is still very high. Why don't you let us do the same thing? Why is it that you want to bring in the point you want to justify it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U388	Dear Raivo Põldaru! It's not my personal wish that I get another responsibility. In principle, the fact that this has not been done so far is rather a mistake, because the remuneration for roadworthiness tests is in fact a public financial contribution. The technical inspection centre performs its task on the basis of an administrative contract with the Public Road Administration and, according to the Constitution, the basis for each public financial remuneration must be governed by the law. The amendment introduces the principle of remuneration in the law. Specific rates shall be determined by the Minister by means of a regulation. The conclusion has been reached, rather than lawyers, that the remuneration for roadworthiness tests is a public financial contribution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U389	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U390	Thank you. It's very sympathetic when you say you don't want excessive responsibilities, I totally agree with that. But understand, it's not up to you or me, the country always wants more power, no matter how opposed we are. Let us now come back to the main issue. We'll remember Mats Wire "Dance Around the Steam Boiler." What is the legal difference between a self-propelled rake machine and a motorcycle? How do some go under technical review and the others don't go? Like the bikes running around Kihnu, what are these things legally?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U391	With regard to self-driving motorists, where there is no driver, you also have a draft law covering them here in the Riigikogu. If you increase the gabarites, the rake machines will also go under the parcel machines' law. Kihnu motorcycles, however, are a means of transport used in the smaller islands, and only in the smaller islands. If Kihnu's grandmother puts on a helmet and wants to go to the mainland, then the roadworthiness test must be complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U392	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U393	Thank you. I really hope that the parcel machines won't drive themselves, still the delivery robots. [[Laughter.]] I can't tell you the type of question I'm asking, but let's imagine living on Prangli Island, where local people live, about 70 people. They have various means of transport there, most of which would certainly not pass a roadworthiness test on the continent. Some of them probably can. But the island of Prangli is visited by a lot of people, and if continental people or tourists go there on their bicycles, they expect the vehicles that are on the island to meet the requirements. How, then, can the small islands be piled up with infinite amounts of waste that do not meet the requirements and are actually dangerous to the driver himself and to everyone else?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U394	In fact, there is a list of parts, equipment, assemblies and the methodology for the verification of errors detected in the vehicle inspection. This is an annex to the regulation issued by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications in 2011 and it states on page 28 what shortcomings are dangerous failures and what are particularly dangerous failures. Those particularly dangerous failures, which do not allow traffic, remain in force when this law is adopted. If I were to give some examples here, starting with lights, for example, in case no fire is working, you wouldn't be allowed to drive. If the passing beam is not functioning, it shall not be regarded as a particularly dangerous failure. Such technical lists are available on 28 pages. So blind, unbraked and, let's say, a vehicle with a non-transparent windshield doesn't allow this law to harm tourists on the island of Prangli.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U395	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U396	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, According to my information, a number of European Union Member States also have the possibility to carry out inspections at car service points. This provides an opportunity for minor faults that the driver has not noticed, to eliminate and to carry out a review after they have been repaired. There is no such possibility in Estonia. This means that there may be a situation where the car is simply sent back from the inspection and the driver therefore bears additional costs, although, I repeat, he himself may not have noticed these failures. Would it not be advisable to introduce such a system in Estonia or to start using it in parallel?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U397	This bill seeks to make it as comfortable as possible for the owner of the car in case of low-risk or non-high-risk failures. According to the current law, such a car should simply be removed from traffic until it is repaired. Now we're giving a two-month response time. Now the question of where the roadworthiness test points are. Road inspection posts are where there has been an initiative to conclude an administrative contract with the Road Administration for the provision of this service. These points are quite numerous. Car salesmen are not obliged to be a technical inspection point by law either. I haven't heard that need really exists either.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U398	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U399	The question of life itself. A year and a half ago, I updated my driver's license, and look at the miracle, it all happened automatically! Only the doctor had to see him and then put his medical certificate in e-health. But to my great surprise, if you apply for permission from the same institution for a recreational boatmaster, if you have already taken all the examinations and necessary actions and you are going to apply for a permit, you may not use, for example, a picture in the PBA database that comes from there automatically when applying for a driver's licence. What's the problem? What's going on at the Road Administration?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U400	I didn't understand if the question was that the driver's licenses and the data bases for applying for the boatmaster's licenses were not compatible. Yeah, I've heard that before, and the Maritime Administration has promised to do some serious work so that the four databases that are currently linked to shipping registers can be combined.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U401	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U402	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I experienced this concern myself: I went to the inspection several times because I could not keep my brakes as much as needed. And then I discovered that buying the brake control service from the same office was more expensive than re-screening. At the same time, we are doing repeated surveys. My idea came to the point of whether we should not start increasing the price of re-screening so that people do not go into re-screening in order to get the service at a lower cost. Because it's not exactly the statistics that decorate us when people go through many inspections and don't get along. Do you think there's something we should do, or are we going to let people go over and over and over again and fix the car?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U403	I suppose there's not always a repetition of malice. The latest data available to me dates back to 2015 when technical compliance checks were carried out in Estonia to a total of over 540000 and re-verification checks were made on more than 50000 vehicles. Now the question is that you come to your car to try your luck, and this creates an extra burden. In fact, however, it is price-based, i.e. ex-post controls are no more expensive than initial controls. I'd rather not punish repeat tech inspections at a higher rate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U404	Toomas Kivimägi, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U405	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! I, too, would like to claim today's humor award. My question is very simple: does this bill make life easier for Kihnu Virve?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U406	It was very humorous, but it's hardly funnier than the funniest of my traveling parcel machines. This may make Kihnu Virve's life happier when Kihnu Virve becomes a merchant with the people who bring him to Pärnu and does not have to take Pärnu tea on their motorcycle. I believe that with his ability to communicate, he can find people who often go to the mainland and have done a roadworthiness test. If this bill did not make life easier for the people of the smaller islands, they would certainly be so eloquent that I would have already heard if they had something against it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U407	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U408	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! On a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior, a penalty is added to the owner or holder of the vehicle if the vehicle's mileage has been changed in order to give a false impression of transit. The amount of the penalty is set at 50 daily penalty units. It is amazing, however, why such a small number of fine units: it does not pose a threat to the life, health, property or the environment. Of course, I think the buyer of the vehicle and his property will still be affected. If it doesn't affect anything, why the fine at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U409	The members of the Economic Commission drew attention to this. Rather, this fine is symbolic, which may not call off the really malicious display cripplers. I therefore imagine that the Committee on Economic Affairs could increase these fines before the second reading, for natural persons up to 400 and for legal persons up to EUR 3200.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U410	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! I would now like to ask Mr Kisler, Member of the Economic Affairs Committee, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U411	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 17 April. First of all, Minister Samson and Head of the Ministry's Transport and Traffic Services Hindrek Allvee introduced this draft. Two issues were discussed in the Commission. First of all, the subject of compliance with the technical requirements of a vehicle on a small island. I will take this opportunity to talk about how this intention to change has arisen, because it was here to talk. Some years ago, the small islands had exactly the same requirements for roadworthiness tests as anywhere else in Estonia. At the time, the Small Islands Committee with the Minister for Regional Affairs proposed that this procedure be changed, as it would bring the vehicle to the mainland simply for inspection, to carry out the inspection and to return home was simply a very expensive pleasure for the permanent residents of the smaller islands. It was therefore proposed to adopt a simplified procedure for the on-the-spot inspection in the small island. Already at the time, this meant some simplifications in the inspection, as not all the normal requirements of the inspection could be met in the small island anyway. But that time, thanks to the Road Administration, who was thinking along, came up and helped to develop a bill here a few years ago! However, this change was made. The lives of islanders were made much more comfortable. There was also a requirement that in any case the vehicle should be in good condition, regardless of whether the inspection was carried out in good time or not. Of course it was the solution. However, although the amendment was adopted here in the Riigikogu by law, it was technically difficult and disproportionately expensive for the Road Administration. I am pleased that an even simpler solution has now been proposed and that the Ministry has come with it. More specifically, if we come to the Commission's debate, the obligation to drive a technically sound vehicle in a small island is still, regardless of whether or not the inspection has been carried out. So driving technically out of order is, in any case, a violation, simply a technical inspection is no longer required if the vehicle is located in a small island and does not leave it. There was a debate in the Commission on what happens to insurance - whether insurance compensates for the damage suffered by a vehicle located in a small island if a roadworthiness test has not been carried out. As the Minister said here, there is no need to have a roadworthiness test for insurance. It is not really controlled when making insurance, but I think that we in the Commission should, just in case, clarify whether it is certain that in the event of an accident, the insurance will still compensate for the damage, even though there is no inspection note. The second round of topics related to the odometer reading. This is a requirement under the Directive. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply here. We discussed in the Commission that penalties for rewinding for fraud could be far more severe. Well, then, the Commission will discuss it. Proposals from members of the Riigikogu are welcome. Would an increase of EUR 1800 to EUR 3200 for legal persons be sufficient? Of course, the question is how to prove this fraud, but I think the fine could be even tougher. The price of such a scrolling vehicle is likely to be increased so much that the difference can be much greater, as well as the damage, because it is essentially about cheating on the consumer, not to mention driving safety. This temptation may remain with the current fines. Members of the Riigikogu could consider proposing amendments here. It was decided on a procedural basis to propose that this draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 4 May. Today is May 10th, but at first we considered that the bill was in the hall on May 4th. A consensual proposal was made to conclude the first reading and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments as early as 16 May, as it was expected that the debate on the draft would take place in the Chamber on 4 May. The intention, the desire and the request are to adopt this draft before the summer break, and therefore the deadline for amendments is now that the draft procedure has been postponed, particularly short. I would like to draw the members of the Riigikogu's attention to the fact that, if there are any suggestions on the fine rate mentioned here, we ask that they be submitted by 5 p.m. on 16 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U412	Thank you. There are no questions for the rapporteur. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 406. Yes, indeed, it is also possible to open negotiations now, but I do not see that there is any wish for words. Did I make the right conclusion? That is the case, which is why negotiations are not opened. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 406. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 406 amendments, including 16 May at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U413	The eighth item is the first reading of Draft Explosives Act 418 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Samson!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U414	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This explosives law that I'm in front of you is a law that has been prepared for a very long time. The draft will replace the explosives law that has been in force since 2004. The development of the new law was due to the need to update and simplify the law and to close some gaps. As a matter of time, the current explosives law was developed in a hurry and in particular with a view to transposing European Union directives. In the meantime, life has moved on, new phenomena have arisen and problems, such as e-commerce, have also increased the share of illegal pyrotechnics sold. Therefore, feedback has been gathered on the existing law since 2010. Several gaps and inconsistencies have been identified, as well as possibilities for simplifying the law. In addition, one important transitional period will be completed in July of this year: only pyrotechnic articles complying with the new requirements may be placed on the market from 4 July. And since the new requirements mean safer products, the restrictions of the current law prove to be too strict in many respects. In view of all this, it was more appropriate to draw up a new whole text of the law, and although the amendments are not of a very fundamental nature, there are many. Not all changes can be read at the moment, they are discussed in more detail in the draft explanatory memorandum. In general, most of the changes concern the area of pyrotechnic articles. Most of these changes are justified either by the full application of the new requirements for pyrotechnic articles or by the need to reduce the advantages of illicit sales of pyrotechnic articles. The new requirements mean safer and lower performance pyrotechnic articles for the consumer. Their safety and compliance have also been previously checked. Since pyrotechnic articles that meet the old requirements will not be available to consumers, the law needs to be updated. For this reason, a number of requirements for the F-3 category, the most powerful fireworks product available to the consumer, will be abolished. For example, the requirement that fireworks in categories F-3 may be sold only at least four consecutive monthly points of sale is abolished. The requirement to register the sale and to keep records will also be abolished. Based on the example of other European countries, a category F-3 fireworks product can be purchased from the age of 18 onwards (the earlier age limit was 21). However, the restrictions on the handling of the essential pyrotechnic articles are left unchanged. Firecrackers remain prohibited and the use of the pyrotechnic article must continue to respect the rules of conduct in the public domain. The requirements for public conduct are the result of the Law Enforcement Act and are not repeated in the draft. Several gaps will also be eliminated. The current law does not specify the quantities of pyrotechnic articles that a private individual may hold without special conditions. At the moment, the only legal limit is 1000 kilograms due to chemical law. Clearly, such a quantity of pyrotechnic articles is not necessary for personal use and requires special conditions to be maintained. In this way, a person may collect large quantities of pyrotechnic articles in the dwelling, causing an increased risk to other persons. In order for law enforcement authorities to be able to deal with this in any way, an indicative threshold as defined by law is necessary. The law provides for a total quantity of 20 kilograms of pyrotechnic articles to be held for own use. The same is true for legal persons operating under the Arms Act. For them, the law also does not set a limit on the amount of gunpowder that can be held by the gun shop without complying with any additional special requirements. This gap will also be eliminated. The law is intended to enter into force on 4 July 2017 and is due to the end of the transitional period under the pyrotechnic articles directive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U415	You have questions too. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U416	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I quickly reviewed that the law in force really contains much more paragraphs than this draft. In itself, this shortening is sympathetic, and the part of the objectives you described to reduce the advantages of illegal sales is perfectly understandable. But maybe you'll give an overview of what is in the current law and by which now the new law really shortens the entire text of this law and reduces the scope of regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U417	I'm trying to give you an overview. First of all, the restriction that a pyrotechnic article may only have been introduced into Estonia from another European Union country by a person authorised to do so is removed. It is based on the fact that not all pyrotechnic articles require authorisation and therefore it is unjustified to restrict the possibility of bringing a compliant product from other Member States. In the past, there was an obligation to notify the Technical Surveillance Authority, regardless of the quantity involved. In reality, in the case of open borders, it wasn't always working, that's the extra market. The amendment then concerns, in particular, international chains of goods whose nomenclature may contain pyrotechnic articles, such as sparklers. Shortening the scope of the authorisation for the transfer of pyrotechnic articles, making the conditions more flexible. The advertising requirements of the pyrotechnic article are amended. According to the current law, advertising of a pyrotechnic article is permitted, while there is a requirement that advertising should not be inviting to purchase a pyrotechnic article. It was found that such a requirement was not purposeful and had been the subject of ongoing disputes. According to the draft, advertising requirements are amended so that the general provisions of the Advertising Act do not have specific rules in this Act, including advertising requirements for products containing dangerous substances. So, on several occasions, these provisions are based on other laws, and there is no need to come up with specific rules here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U418	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U419	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My question concerns page 16 of the explanatory memorandum and Article 13, which sets out the provisions on the authorisation procedure for the operator of the pyrotechnic article and the explosive. They are now considered to be a single procedure and the authorisation of an explosive operator has been withdrawn by the authorisation committee. Neither the Rescue Board nor the Tax and Customs Board have been involved in the authorisation process, but the Police and Border Guard Board and the Defence Police Department are involved. I'm asking for an explanation here!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U420	The question here is that it is a licence granted by the Technical Surveillance Authority. The Technical Surveillance Authority is also bound by several laws in these matters. A number of dangerous substances are no longer covered by this law, for example, by the Law on Chemicals. I will also tell you immediately what was decided to do in the case of a licence. It was decided to provide relief as the existing restrictions did not significantly reduce the availability of pyrotechnic articles. Maybe it's from the same idea of how to reduce the shadow trade. I did not really understand your question as to which organisations are involved in this process and which are not. There are synergies between several laws and the existing rules are also taken into account. In the case of pyrotechnics, for example, there is interaction with the Arms Act and the same organisations mentioned on pages 16 and 17 of the explanatory memorandum are involved in its handling. If there are any technical provisions, I must admit that this is the result of official coordination, that the Police and Border Guard Board and the Defence Police Department are involved in the application procedure, and that the list is limited. I don't know what else to add to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U421	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U422	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! I have this question of interest: what led to the need to alleviate the conditions for becoming a blaster so decisively? If there was a need for a year's work experience in the past, it is now only four months. There must have been some reason for such relaxation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U423	I asked for it myself. The draft law was drawn up in advance of the law's entry into government and all stakeholders were involved. This change is evidently the result of a proposal by an organisation linking mines or mines. They believe that with the safety of modern materials, it is also possible to train the blaster within four months.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U424	Any more questions? No, it's not. Thanks to the waitress! I would like to ask for a joint presentation by the Commission by Mr Sults, Member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U425	Mr President! Colleagues! At its meeting on Monday 17 April, the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the first reading of draft Explosives Act 418. He led the meeting as usual Aivar Kokk, Margit Ubaleht, Toomas Kivimägi, Deniss Borodich, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marrandi, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru, Siim Kiisler, Kaido Rosin, Marin Daniel and Piia Schults took part. Kristen Michal was missing. Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, was invited and Ago Pelisar, Adviser to the Ministry's Internal Market Department for Product Safety and Consumer Protection. The draft law on explosives 418 was on the agenda for the first reading of the debate. Mr Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, invited to the meeting of the Commission, and Mr Ago Pelisar, Adviser to the Ministry's Internal Market Department for Product Safety and Consumer Protection, presented the content of the draft and answered the questions. There were questions and there was a debate. Mr Sults asked that the specifications of the pyrotechnic articles are included in the draft, but that there are no requirements for storage and storage of the ingredients and their components. Take, for example, port storage facilities and other places, things that are filled with nitrate, phosphate and saltpetre are just under the tarp. It's all actually a very dangerous explosive. In the course of the debate, we found out that this was covered by the chemicals law and this draft had nothing to do with it. With regard to the next questions that I, Märt Sults, found that they were also related to the chemicals law and did not touch on this bill again. Toomas Kivimägi was interested in what are the components of fighting the secret market in the draft. A representative of the Ministry replied that in the case of contraband, it should be considered, from which its sale is motivated, for example, whether it is cheaper to buy a product elsewhere than here. It was claimed that the price of the product would normally determine the movement of the market. Kaido Rosin wondered whether the monitoring part, such as the use of pyrotechnics after midnight, had been analysed in the drafting process. The Ministry replied that it was difficult to control in legislative terms. If someone's using pyrotechnics when they're not allowed, the police may be gone by now. Rather, it is a matter of a general culture of behaviour. To be clear, I can give the day before yesterday an example of where I live. One funny person started banging a hunting gun at 3:00 a.m. and banged the next day until 2:00 p.m. Nobody caught the bouncer. Missiles flew, too. So internal culture is certain, and the fact that a person can handle some kind of pyrotechnic material and mix it with explosives is not the most dangerous place. But here's the breeding place that I know how to do something, but I'm not doing it because it's dangerous and it can cause harm to others. So it's this education: I can, but I don't, I have it, but I don't use it because it's dangerous for others, I have pyrotechnics, but I don't use it against others. That is the main objective that this law must achieve. At the end of the debate, it was decided to consensually propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 4 May. Aivar Kokk, Toomas Kivimägi, Deniss Borodich, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marrandi, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru and Siim Kiisler voted. Secondly, it was decided to propose the completion of the first reading (Aivar Kokk, Toomas Kivimägi, Deniss Boroditš, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marrand, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru, Siim Kiisler unanimously) and to set the deadline for the amendments including 16 May at 17 p.m. (Aivar Kokk, Toomas Kivimägi, Deniss Boroditš, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marrandi, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru and Siim Kiisler unanimously). Here's another illustration of the fact that nothing ever happens. There is no such rule now, but during the consultative period, the schools had such a requirement that the chemical office had to be located under the roof and in the corner of the house. That if something blows up, there's only two walls of the office, the rest of the school's gonna be fine. So, in any way, a nice bill, please support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U426	Thank you. There are also questions. Please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U427	Good manager! Good waitress! So far, no provision has been made for the quantity of pyrotechnic articles used for their own use, but now it is 20 kilos. Was it discussed how many people could be in need of 20 kilos of pyrotechnics for their own use, and who would then have to start asking for a treatment permit?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U428	Thank you very much, very good question. It was discussed for quite some time where this boundary goes and what one person does at home with 20 kilos of pyrotechnics. A person holding such an amount of explosives at home without special conditions should start reaching the interest of the defense police and other bodies, or others should report that someone is holding a mine under the bed, for example. So it's difficult to regulate it by law, because who's considering it at home? And you don't weigh it at the store. If you buy four packs of some kind of missiles, whether it weighs 21 kilos or 25 kilos, nobody's gonna measure it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U429	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U430	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! You said a few minutes ago that, according to the original plan, the draft had to be in the Chamber on 4 May and, accordingly, the deadline for amendments was 16 May. It's May 10th. Has the deadline for amendments now shifted, or has it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U431	Very good point, thank you! I'm gonna have to ask for advice now. I was just looking at the dates in the record. There might be some repairs. I'm sorry right now! There's been a misprint here somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U432	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U433	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Commission waitress. This draft law also reduces the age limit for sales of category F-3 products to 18 years of age. How justified do you think your old school dad's right to bring down this age limit?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U434	Thank you, Krista! Good, very good question! The nightmare of a former school dad is Christmas time and New Year's Eve. It's a complete nightmare, and I'd sell these things with psychiatric evidence at all. But I don't think it can be imposed, and then it doesn't really matter if the buyer is 18 or 21.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U435	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U436	Good manager! Good waitress! I'll come back to that 20 kilos. In the meantime, my colleague Savisaar told me that 20 kilos is four such batteries. But my vital observations show that the use of pyrotechnics has increased dramatically lately, and not only at the turn of the year, but every month. Isn't 20 kilos too little, considering the real circumstances that a bang is made every month and quite a lot?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U437	Thank you, good Peter! That's a good question. There is now a proposal for a commercial network, and this is certainly a hint to be given. During Christmas and New Year's, these pyrotechnics are sold in chains, Selver and everywhere else. It's that month, okay, okay, but for the rest of the year, the pyrotechnics shouldn't be sold in supermarket chains, they should be sold in specs. And here are the rules of good practice and common life, how and when this banging and firing missiles could work. It's not gonna be possible for a policeman or a muponaut to control it again, here's an internal upbringing and a neighborhood watch. Let's just say that if you've screwed up your neighbor a couple of times at 2:00 a.m. and blew up your two batteries, the next morning, you're gonna get kicked by your neighbor. So it's quite okay, the attitude of society and the level of socialisation will regulate this market.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U438	There are no further questions for the Commission's rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 418 is complete. I will set the deadline of 16 May at 5 p.m. for the amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U439	Our next item is the first reading of the draft Act amending § 7 of the National Defence Act initiated by the National Defence Committee. Commission waitress Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U440	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you the draft law amending § 7 of the National Defence Act 438. The National Defence Committee started the draft under discussion consensually on 20 April. The Government of the Republic discussed the draft at its meeting on 3 May and decided to support it. Why did we do that? The basic law of the state budget lays down, as a general law, the requirements for drawing up, implementing and amending strategic development documents. § 1 of the draft under discussion provides the following distinction in § 7 of the National Defence Act, which is a special law: the development plan in the field of national defence containing state secrets is not subject to the obligation laid down in § 20 (2) of the State Budget Act to submit it to the Riigikogu for discussion. Before submitting a development plan or a draft amending it to the Government of the Republic for approval, the Prime Minister listens to the position of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. The Sectoral Development Plan refers to the National Defence Development Plan, which will be established for a period of ten years. There is nothing new about the regulation laid down in the draft. The same principle and distinction were laid down in Chapter 7 of the Peace Period National Defence Act, which was in force until 31 December 2015, entitled "Principal plans for state defence', and more specifically in § 27 of the Act. According to this section, the Minister responsible for the field submitted a national defence development plan to the National Defence Commission. However, the drafting of the National Defence Development Plan as an area development plan is now cross-ministerial, as it does not only include military defence. Therefore, the development plan of the field is prepared by the State Chancellery and in practice the Prime Minister is the person who will introduce the development plan to the National Defence Committee. And more. The need for differentiation is also justified by the fact that the National Defence Development Plan is a predominantly state-secret document that also has contact with external classified information, specifically those containing NATO secrets. Pursuant to § 19 (4) of the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu, members of the National Defence Committee pass a security check in order to obtain the right of access to NATO secrets necessary for everyday work. § 2 of the Bill states that the Act will enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the State. Setting a time of entry into force faster than the general regime will give the Government of the Republic the opportunity to confirm the National Defence Development Plan 2017 to 2026 in time. The procedure. At its meeting on 2 May 2017, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to invite the Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu including the meeting on 10 May and to invite the Riigikogu to conclude the first reading. The draft was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. On the basis of § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, the National Defence Committee also decided, by consensus, to propose to the Chairman of the Riigikogu that the draft amendments be submitted by 10.30 a.m. on 15 May. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U441	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Madis Milling! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 438 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 10.30 a.m. on 15 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U442	Next on our agenda is the draft Act 432 amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws resulting from the cessation of the activities of rural governments initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mikhail Korb, Minister of Public Administration, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiator of the draft act. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U443	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Let me briefly present the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws resulting from the dissolution of rural governments. The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft for discussion to you, according to which the activities of county elders and rural governments as an institution will be terminated as of 1 January 2018 and the functions of rural governments will be transferred to local authorities and existing public authorities for the purpose of carrying out their duties. Analyses and discussions have been on the subject of changing the administrative organisation of Estonia for years. As a result of political choices, the number of tasks of rural governments has decreased considerably over time. If there were nearly 1 000 employees in rural governments 15 years ago, the job now needs to be done with fewer than 500 people. The administration of museums, sports establishments, boarding schools and children's homes and the organisation of a family doctoral competition are no longer the work of rural governments, and the reduction of the role of rural governments is not foreseen. One of the objectives of the ongoing administrative reform is to increase the role of local authorities. Rural governments currently carry out a number of tasks where decision-making is better suited to the local level. The development of the county and public health priorities, the designation of island guards and the organisation of public transport do not have to be decided by state officials; this can be done very successfully by elected representatives of local residents. As far as the public functions of rural governments are concerned, they will also be significantly reduced once the ownership and land reform are completed. The aim of the rural government reform is to make the division of responsibilities between public authorities clear and orderly, to reduce the fragmentation of tasks and to strengthen the local level by bringing decision-making closer to people. There is also a desire to make the performance of national tasks in the future more uniform in the counties. The draft intends to amend 59 laws that include the functions of the County Elder and the County Government. The following is an overview of the planned distribution of the main tasks of rural governments between local governments and public authorities. Firstly, according to the draft, the following tasks are intended to be assigned to the local level: civil status procedures, such as the registration of marriage and divorces by the local authorities of the county centre; public health tasks and the organisation of the work of the county security councils for the joint performance of the county or regional authorities; coordination of the county's cultural co-operation and organisation of events for the joint performance of the county or regional authorities; island watchdog tasks for local authorities with permanent settlements; selection procedures for all local authorities; tasks related to the authorisation procedure for the acquisition of immovable property for all local authorities. Secondly, according to the draft, the following tasks have been planned for the existing public authorities: supervision and educational management tasks of the educational institutions to the Ministry of Education and Research; land reform tasks and land operations to the Land Administration; supervision of civil status operations to the Ministry of Internal Affairs; supervision of public libraries to the Ministry of Culture; supervision and coordination of the organisation of elections to the National Election Service; supervision of the administrative acts of local government to the Ministry of Justice; preparation of county and thematic planning and supervision of general and detailed planning, coordination of regional development programmes, legal advice of local authorities, operation of amending administrative territorial organisation, supervision of property reform and functions of land mortgage keepers to the Ministry of Finance. Together with the functions of the county administration, local authorities and public authorities will also be provided with the necessary financial resources to carry out their tasks. The restructuring of rural governments does not lead to the abolition of counties as administrative units. This does not mean abandoning historic counties when other institutions begin to carry out the duties of county elders and rural governments as of the first January 2018. People do not equate their county with either the county government or the identity of a particular county elder. The counties are maintained as the closest national administrative unit where the state provides the necessary services to its inhabitants. The counties will continue to organise Olympics, sports competitions, singing and dance parties, the mother, father and teachers of the year, and recognition events. Both I and colleagues from the Ministry of Finance have visited all the counties on the reform of rural governments and met with a large number of local authorities and the leaders of all county councils. On the basis of the meetings, I dare say to you that, as from 1 January 2018, both municipalities and ministries and agencies will be ready to carry out additional tasks, and we will be able to reshape the administration of the state over the next six months. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U444	Questions. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U445	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Unfortunately, there is much more in this law than what you just gave in your speech. Therefore, I ask about the hindsight of § 26 'amendment of the Land Reform Act', for example. It complements section 6 "Returnable land' of the Land Reform Act, which lists the cases in which land is not returned in whole or in part, adding a new point: the location of the unlawfully disposed land cannot be determined. Please comment on the content of this amendment regarding the cessation of rural governments. Why has this point, which I believe is not directly relevant to the activities of the rural governments, been brought here into the cluster bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U446	Thank you for your question. I can assure you 100% that all the changes proposed by this law concern only the organisational issues of the rural governments. There are basically two types of changes. Indeed, one type of change involves tasks that are assigned from rural governments to local authorities or public authorities. Other changes relate to tasks that are taken away from rural governments at all because these functions have exhausted themselves over time and are no longer needed. As far as the specific point is concerned, its content is related to land operations and their organisation. All of this is directly linked to the reform of rural governments, I assure you once again.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U447	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I have an analogous question about § 34, which concerns the amendment of the law on the use of funds from privatisation. I ask you to make it clear to us unbelievers that what is stated here is only about changing the status of rural governments or abolishing them, and no substantive aspects!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U448	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U449	Thank you for your question. Here I can also assure you that the functions of the rural governments on this issue are simply excluded from the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U450	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U451	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My interest came from Chapter 9, entitled 'Social Laws'. When I look at what laws are being amended there, I honestly do not see any social law here. The Act on collective labour dispute resolution, prevention and control of communicable diseases, public health and health insurance will be amended. I'd rather call them health laws. But that's it. My substantive question concerns the amendment of the Public Health Act and the link between the abolition of rural governments. The first three amendments are purely adding concepts, which is public health, which is a health effect, which is a health support service and which is public health at all. It seems to me that this law also wants to make other necessary changes, because there is no direct connection to the abolition of rural governments. Or how do you see it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U452	I repeat, I see a very direct connection with the abolition of rural governments. All the changes that have been incorporated into the law are directly linked to the abolition of rural governments. Of course, pointing out the different aspects of the law, you're trying to confuse me and show me that these things are not related to the abolition of rural governments. I assure you that all the activities described by this law are linked to the abolition of rural governments. When we are talking about legislation, it is clear that a number of concepts or points concerning various functions and tasks need to be taken out of one law and entered into other laws. I think that once these concepts are introduced here, it's probably needed to perform these functions. I can give an example of why such a provision needs to be written into the law. For example, some assignment was not specifically assigned to anyone, but was formerly part of the government's duties by law. Now that this task goes to state or local government level, the law must be amended in such a way, introduced into it and later referred to in other laws or other sections. I assure you once again that once the concepts have been introduced, they have been introduced so that these tasks can be successfully carried out either by the local government or, specifically, by one of the structures of the government. As regards the areas specifically mentioned by you, the local government will be responsible for these areas to a large extent and the Ministry will be responsible for monitoring these areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U453	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U454	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I understand very well why the section of the public libraries has been written in here and what needs to be changed. Rather, my question is about § 31 of Chapter 4, where there is an amendment to the People's Library Act and the Sports Act. If the municipalities cannot decide to appoint the county library themselves and this has to be decided by the Ministry of Culture, why is there no deadline here? It has been left completely without a deadline. Has it been discussed that the decision of the Ministry of Culture or the Minister must come within a certain period of time? Otherwise, the performance of the functions of the central library will be neglected if the municipalities argue with each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U455	Honourable questioner, thank you for your question. I think there were various proposals and considerations. But we preferred that the provisions or parts of the law in different areas be prepared specifically by the ministries of the relevant profile. I assume that this issue was thoroughly analysed by the Ministry of Culture, which has a key role to play in this matter. This input is from the Ministry of Culture and everything is in line with it. I think they didn't think there was any reason to set the deadline. Apparently, they assume that this can be done naturally. At the same time, I must also stress that this is a draft amendment to the law, so you will have the opportunity to present your proposals. This issue can certainly be considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U456	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U457	Good manager! Good waitress! As I understand it, so far the mayor has told me what the county library is like. Now the minister will be told by all the remaining municipalities or cities, and if they don't get an agreement between themselves, the minister will just say that the new central library is located here or there. Let me get this straight. But why should the existing central library change the context of the abolition of rural governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U458	Thank you, good questioner! I think the main reason is to remove the role of county government from this decision-making process. He's part of this process now, but if the county governments no longer exist, this function will be removed from the law. That's the main reason. But we assume that in the future, the local authorities will still say, which is the central library and where it is located. Regulation must be maintained so that there is a clear process. But, of course, there is no reason to change the location of the central library without any particular reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U459	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U460	Good Chairman! Dear Minister, There are certainly thousands of details involved in the abolition of rural governments, but I would like to touch on one of them as an important symbolism. What is specifically meant by symbolism? Each county has its own flag and coat of arms, the counties as such remain, but who would then be the keeper of this symbolism or storer and, in certain cases, the transmitter of this tradition, the highest prize in the county?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U461	Thank you, good questioner! A very important question. In your question, you are quite right to point out that counties really do survive. The symbolism of the county is also preserved. There was also quite a debate on this issue, but it was decided that local authorities' associations would be the bearer of the region's symbols. They will continue to be responsible for carrying out ceremonial events and doing so together throughout the territory of the county.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U462	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U463	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! You see, the reason why we are puzzled is because we have taken the existing law as a basis and started to compare all these points. It seems that you have not done so and that is why we do not understand the question. Our analysis shows you're going totally fucked up. I understand that one mistake is that the duties have been assigned to the ministries. My question is this: why have you become increasingly round in the division of responsibility, using in particular the words 'Minister in charge of the field', 'Office in charge of the field', etc.? We take the same Government Act §753 'Administrative supervision of the activities of local government units', where different paragraphs include the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and then the Minister in charge. Do you not feel that this will make our country's system opaque?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U464	Thank you, good questioner! I'd say I totally disagree with you. This bill was being worked on by lawyers from all ministries, and I think it is a very well-developed and prepared document. Let me remind you that this bill amends 59 laws. The work done is pretty big, and it's done in a short time. As far as your question of supervision is concerned, it can be answered in such a way that it is a common practice: for it to be more flexible, it must be done so that, when the ministers of the sector change, there is no need to change the law again. If the government decides to restructure its activities and hand over some tasks to another minister or otherwise, then there is no need to change the law again. That is why this concept has been introduced. As for the fact that there are several ministries of supervision, I can respond to that. Indeed, there will be quite a number of institutions monitoring. Sectoral monitoring will be carried out by ministries that match the profile. The Ministry of Justice will monitor individual acts exactly as we discussed in Question Time. The planning is supervised by the Ministry of Finance. Some things have been written out very clearly and those things where flexibility is expected were left open.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U465	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U466	Mr. Minister! Ten minutes ago, you accused my groupmate Monika Haukanõmme of trying to confuse you. I think you're wrong. You're confusing us, but I don't blame you for doing this. I think you are doing this because you do not know the text well. And the other thing is that you, in turn, have been confused by your subordinate officials. From this point of view, this law amends 59 laws. That is the wrong argument, however, 57 laws will be amended and one law will be abolished, which has absolutely nothing in common with this reform. Let's go to the details. If you look at the article 54 that Monika Haukanõm asked about, the vast majority of it is to replace the three basic definitions in this law. But the definition has absolutely nothing to do with the idea of this reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U467	Good colleague, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U468	I have a feeling that right now you don't understand the mission you've been sent out here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U469	Good questioner, thank you for your question and opinion. That was more of an opinion. Each leader is just as strong as his colleagues who prepare materials for him. If you thought I was hurting someone in my assessments, I apologize for that! As far as the concept is concerned, I will say once again: if the lawyers found that it was necessary to clarify the terms, this law did so. I fully support their actions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U470	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U471	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question concerns the amendment of the Health Insurance Act. In fact, the law in force says that a rural elder has the right to establish a quarantine for up to seven days if there is an epidemic in the area. The right to quarantine will now be transferred to the local government unit. If there is an epidemic, it can also cross the borders of the municipality. For what reasons did you assign this task to the local government? Did you also consider that it might be reasonable to entrust this task to the local government association as an entity covering the whole county or even several counties? Where did such considerations come from? It might get a little tight.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U472	Thank you for this question. You have rightly noted that we have assigned this task to the local government. Our starting position was always that we wish to delegate tasks to local authorities as much as possible. The aim is for real power to be as close to people as possible, because it is the people who have been elected to councils who can make the best decisions. With regard to the specific question of whether the municipality association or local authority were found to be a better form of local government. If it is decided that this option will be narrow or that the situation may leave the territory of the municipality, then the municipality can certainly delegate the matter to the local government association. I think this is one of the forms of cooperation promoted by this whole bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U473	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U474	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am going to have this unimportant issue of redistribution of tasks and money. Perhaps it can still be assumed that the responsible ministries, as you call them, have the fat to carry out additional tasks. What about the municipalities that are going to carry out tasks that have not been carried out so far? I didn't quite understand this bill or your presentation how this financial party works.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U475	Thank you, good questioner! On the financial side, quite a lot of work has been done, and now the funds that are currently being used by rural governments are being discussed first and foremost. We're talking about a sum of 9 million for all 15 county governments. It has been made very accurate cost allocation according to functions, mapped out in all professional activities and consequently made for each function an accurate cost allocation. Accordingly, the cost lines are divided and the funds are intended to be transferred in such proportions either to local authorities in order to carry out tasks or to the Ministry in accordance with the functions to be transferred. As far as specific amounts are concerned, it can be said, for example, that all funding that goes to local authorities amounts to 2.9 million. The Ministry of Finance receives 2.2 million for functions, the Ministry of Education and Research 750000 euros, the Ministry of Environment 660000 euros, the Ministry of Social Affairs 568000 euros, the Ministry of Interior 156000 euros, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications 54000 euros, the Ministry of Culture 54000 euros and the Ministry of Justice 33000 euros. All costs are very accurately shared, and there is currently a more precise breakdown of costs by local authorities and local government associations.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U476	Good manager! Good waitress! According to paragraph 44, you are repealing the Agricultural Reform Act, but at the same time I read in the explanatory memorandum with surprise that there are actually seven more colkhos and sovkhos to be completed. There are, for example, Holdre and Viljandi kolhoos, Saida sovhoos, Viiratsi and Jüri state holdings. The explanatory memorandum states that 'in view of the small number of unfinished joint holdings'. But if there are seven collective farms and sovkhozes, how will you complete the agricultural reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U477	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U478	Thank you, good questioner! The completion of the agricultural reform is the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, mostly the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. However, according to the law currently being amended, no action has been taken for a long time, and that is the main reason why this provision is deleted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U479	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U480	As the representative of the people, Ernits, actually took away my question, I will rephrase it because it is probably the easiest way to demonstrate what shortcomings there are in this law. Indeed, the Agricultural Reform Act of the penultimate Supreme Council, which has been sleeping for many years and which would have been a reason to cancel long ago, is now being annulled by your draft. But please tell me what connection this country's government has to reform. Just tell me one logical reason why these two things are connected to each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U481	Well, it's very simple: the county government was involved in the land file process.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U482	Einar Vallbaum, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U483	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, All tasks go as if to the local government manager, but the local government manager sets up the rural municipality elders. Let us look at the situation, for example, when there are several rural municipalities in one county and they are approached, let us say, by the embassy wishing that some entrepreneur would like to invest in some rural municipality in that county. If the municipality manager recommends one rural municipality, the other rural municipality manager asks why he was not recommended because he is on the payroll of the local government managers. How do we solve this problem so that such a situation does not arise?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U484	Thank you, good questioner! That is a very interesting question indeed. I think all these kinds of problems can be solved by communication. You have to communicate with each other, and you have to settle the middle way. It seems to me that local authorities can ultimately find this middle ground quite well with each other. I think communication is the key to this solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U485	Good manager! Honourable Minister. Two questions at a time. What's going on in the county government houses from January 1st? Secondly, by what date would those who are now working in rural governments find out if some of them would go under a ministry or somewhere else? They'd know what their future is. The fear is that good specialists will run away before it arrives on January 1st.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U486	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U487	Thank you for your question. I think if everything goes according to plan, a clear message can be sent to people after the law has been passed. Once the law is passed, people will receive a very clear and united message. Of course, a message about their future must be given on time, as required by the law. As far as rural government buildings are concerned, this issue is a little more complicated because these buildings are different, built at different times and are certainly suitable for different functions. One project that is currently being developed by the Ministry of Finance is the project of state buildings. The purpose of this project is to give content to rural government buildings. In particular, it seeks to bring together the national representative functions and institutions from the whole territory of the county centre and to create synergies that would give people better service outcomes. Secondly, there is a project to remove a thousand jobs, where certain public authorities want to use rural government buildings when moving. And thirdly, it is known that at least two local governments want to use the county government building. There are other proposals. I think the fate of the rural government buildings is still a little loose right now, but it seems that they will definitely find an application for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U488	Einar Vallbaum, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U489	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Since I've been a governor of my own country, I know how the parish elders fight for investments. It doesn't go that easy, we have to figure something out. Don't put local government leaders in such a difficult position! Think of something that can still be solved. It's not a good word that solves this thing, whose vast investment goes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U490	Thank you, good questioner! I think that whose investment is going to take place is now decided to some extent by the Commission, which has been convened by the governor of the country. According to the measures, the additional Commission at EAS is the place where the final decision will be taken. I think that an implementing or ancillary unit responsible for the implementation of the project must be put to a final point. I understand, of course, that money is always a very emotional thing that is sometimes quite difficult to agree on, that there are disputes about it, and that sometimes even litigation. But I think that the regional development strategy, on which local authorities can agree to some extent in the future and decide where and in what form the funds will be received, will play a very important role in this matter. Maybe my last answer wasn't that precise. This system must be considered more precisely and found in this form, how and who is the final arbiter of the decision, who says whether the funds are going in one direction or another. We must certainly achieve that the intermediate arbiter is independent and based on better prospects for the future of the county.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U491	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U492	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! Power first! My question is specifically motivated by the subject of a good colleague, Einar Vallbaum. Let me ask you a little bit more. We now give development to local governments in the counties. If there are dozens of municipalities in the county now, there will be fewer in the future. It is natural that decision-making is difficult because Estonians have such a peculiarity that if there are two of us, there are three opinions, if there is one, then there are two opinions. But I'm gonna ask you more generally. What do you think cooperation with a smaller number of municipalities will be like? There are currently 12 municipalities in Viljandi County, and there will be four in the future. I guess these orders of magnitude are similar across Estonia. Do you think, in the future, if there are fewer municipalities, this cooperation will be better than it is now, if there are a good number of municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U493	Thank you. I think it's all stuck in people. If people can agree with each other, then an agreement can be reached. If not, it must be very difficult to act. I believe that local government leaders will be at least as professional in the future as they are now and will be able to bear in mind the better prospects for the whole region. I would like to emphasise once again that the development strategy remains the responsibility of the local authorities' associations, joint implementation and joint action. I hope that this action will be well implemented. I think we will see this very soon, because we are now trying to increase regional competitiveness, there is a round of distribution of European Union money, and this will be the first challenge for local authorities. I myself believe that they can agree with each other. Once again, such an interim arbiter can be an implementing unit, which will make a final assessment and make final decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U494	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U495	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, There are a lot of new tasks added to the local government. Has the ministry or ministry officials, in particular, made any mid-term review of all the tasks that are added to the municipality? Can you estimate the additional workload? How much additional labour is needed, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U496	Thank you. The answer is yes, this job is done. All tasks performed by county government employees have been mapped with the precision of 0.1 workload. These tasks are charted very accurately over time. Consequently, it has been calculated how many people are needed for one function or another. For example, it has been calculated that 17 people are needed for demographic and civil status operations, 30 people are needed for regional development, 15 people are needed for health promotion and security councils, 11 are currently organising public transport in counties. A little open is just the number of people in the cultural field. It is known that there are currently eight island guards at work, and these people will certainly continue to work. All these funds will be transferred to municipalities or local governments, respectively, so that they can hire people and continue to perform exactly the same functions in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U497	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U498	Thank you, manager. Good minister! I will continue to ask the question that it is some people who go to municipalities and some people go to ministries. Can you tell me if there are any people who will continue to work at the same country government house?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U499	Thank you for your question. That is the very right question to ask how many people will remain in employment in the counties. I think that was the most important part of this question. In general, I very much hope that, apart from the Ministry of Finance, other ministries will also place emphasis on keeping the people responsible for a particular region in the same area. It may be wrong to say that every county should have such a center, but one, two or three counties must have one such structural unit responsible for this region. With regard specifically to the Ministry of Finance, to which quite a large number of people are moving, I assure you that it is very likely that those people who come to the Ministry of Finance and are going to supervise the planning will remain in these very houses. There are not as many of them as the people currently employed in the county administration, but certainly the employees of the so-called regional offices will remain there because it is best to organise this work on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U500	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U501	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! You mentioned the development strategy that remains to be promoted, developed, carried out by local governments. The other half, which goes into the administration of the Ministry of Finance, is spatial planning. Having served as a country elder, I dare say that 50% of the working time goes to deal with the future. To be honest, I am a little concerned about moving away from spatial planning and development strategy, i.e. this vision. How do you see it in the future? Is there any possibility that at some point spatial planning as such will be returned from the ministry? Although life has shown that what has gone to the ministry, it often stays there and does not return it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U502	That is a very correct remark and observation. I honestly admit to you that such ideas have been presented to the various parties during the discussion. The local authorities' association has also sent a message that they are ready to take on this task. I think that the biggest question is what will happen to planning in the future, whether a general plan must be made within the borders of one county, or whether it must be a region? We need to monitor a little bit, analyse how the latest changes to the planning law have affected the planning process. Today there are two parallel systems, there is an old system and there is a new system. We need to understand what to do with these systems and how to deal with them in the future. However, I can admit to you that yes, I think that local authorities may in future also be involved in planning and planning supervision within a certain territory. We see this form now as what it has been proposed to you, but it does not rule out that this issue should not be reviewed in the future. This issue could also be dealt with in the future by the Association of Local Authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U503	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U504	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Do I understand correctly from the explanatory memorandum that some of the officials who supervise the education of rural governments will be deprived of their jobs? The ministry may only be transferred to eight places and their salaries, but I think there are officials in every county government right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U505	Thank you for your question. The answer to your question is that some people really lose their jobs. Very often it has been that the people of rural governments have performed other tasks than supervision. There is a very precise mapping of how many people are needed to perform this function. Moreover, officials of the Ministry of Education and Research are already performing to some extent the same function as other educational institutions. I think the number of people is enough. The Ministry of Education and Research has also said that this is the number of people they can handle. It's their message.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U506	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U507	Thank you. Dear Minister, I also have a question of changing jobs and their number. We understand that as a result of this reform in counties, outside Tallinn and Tartu, the number of jobs in the public sector is decreasing, and the balance is moving towards Tallinn because of these changes. Some places are transferred to municipalities and the number of jobs is optimised there and also in other structures. Have you made such a calculation of how many employees of the state institution should be transferred from Tallinn to other county centres to compensate for the shifts arising from the reforms alone? I am not even talking about removing jobs from Tallinn, but just to compensate for what is happening right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U508	Thank you. Indeed, when it comes to the reform of job removals, we first considered that a number of officials who are currently working in rural governments are losing their jobs. The consequences of this must be mitigated as much as possible, and that is why the idea of taking the jobs out of Tallinn arose. We have not yet done such an accurate analysis of how many people are moving from Tallinn to the regions, but there is no point in denying that this is definitely happening. It is clear that all agencies or ministries are unable to organise work on the ground. But when you look at the distribution of people in local governments, the number of people moving from the Ministry of Finance and, for example, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, because public transport needs to be organised on the ground, it seems to me that those people who are potentially able to move to rural centres are not, in a circular way, perhaps not more than 50. I think that there are also 50 jobs in rural areas that are quite large. But this is my kind of brief estimate when I look at this table.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U509	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. The rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs shall be Ivari Padar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U510	Mr. Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft on 2 May. The Minister made an opening statement in the same terms as here today. The Members of the Commission had a number of questions, some of which you have already asked here in the House today. For example, the MP Ivari Padar asked how many jobs had been expected to be maintained in connection with the transfer of tasks. The good officials of the Ministry and Minister Mikhail Korb replied that while almost 500 people are currently occupied by rural governments, according to the draft, 255 jobs are projected to perform the tasks. The question was whether the reduction in the number of jobs would lead to savings in the payroll fund. Yes, there will be savings in the payroll. If, at present, the cost of rural governments is estimated to be slightly above 9 million, the estimated savings could be 1 to 2 million. I remember from one table that the planned cost is 7.3 million. Mr Kalle Laanet was interested that the title of the municipality's parent is of symbolic importance, but if the municipality's municipality's size is established, the municipality's title could be approached more flexibly. The Minister replied that the abolition of rural governments would also lead to the loss of the title of a county governor and that it would be more of a philological debate if a county governor's title were to be preserved, and it would be the responsibility of the name committee. My colleague, Helmut Hallemaa, was interested in the readiness of rural governments, municipalities and county councils to change. Is it possible to mention separately how many jobs will be lost as a result of administrative reform and the abolition of rural governments? How are 17 jobs planned for demographic and civil status operations broken down by county? The minister replied that the parties' readiness was different. Local government units and county councils are predominantly positive, but rural governments are much more passive. As far as the number of jobs is concerned, the administrative reform will mean that around 500 people will lose their jobs and just over 200 people will lose their jobs if rural governments cease to exist. At the same time, there is a shortage of specialists in part of Estonia's regions, and several public authorities have shown willingness to offer jobs to people. The location of jobs relating to demographic and civil status work is based on the workload. Mr Jaak Madison wondered if the plan to establish a regional agency was in force. One important issue that we have discussed in the Committee on State Reform Problem is that, according to the current plan, we do not have the horizontal level between the municipality and the state. As far as the regional authority is concerned, the Minister replied that long discussions have been held on the reform of the management system, and the current view is that no regional authority is created and that the functions of rural governments are allocated on a functional basis. My colleague, Külliki Kübarsepp, asked what methodology has been used in drafting the draft and in allocating tasks. Has the involvement of the National Audit Office or any other politically independent institution been considered when transferring supervisory functions? How are the authorities of the cities of the county centres motivated to ensure that the provision of services is stable within the county boundaries? What are the developments regarding the concept of state houses? I'm going to read that long answer. The minister replied that each ministry was responsible for the division of tasks in its field and that the distributions would later be discussed jointly. Regarding supervision, different versions, including the involvement of the Chancellor of Justice, were discussed, but the discussions led to the conclusion that the supervision of the administrative acts of local governments would move to the Ministry of Justice and the supervision of the plans into the administration of the Ministry of Finance. As regards the local authorities of the county centres, it cannot be said that they will have a very large role to play as a result of the reform of the rural governments. The county centres are only entrusted with tasks related to population and family activities, but if another local authority wishes to register their own marriages and train the relevant officials, it is not prohibited. It's very important. I'm afraid you'll have to find the money yourself. The concept of state buildings is moving forward as planned; the state budget strategy also provides for appropriate funding. The first public buildings are planned to be opened at the end of 2018. At the beginning of the summer, the Government of the Republic will be given an overview of the form in which future state buildings could take place. There was also an interest in the date of 1 January. We know that the government took the 12th of January. A decision on the liquidation of rural governments as at 1 January was adopted at the beginning of 2004. This is where my colleague, Arto Aas, wondered if everything would be achieved in that time. The Minister replied that, as far as the deadline was concerned, one version provided for the abolition of rural governments six months later, but the Government of the Republic considered that there was no point in delaying the process and that it should be done faster. There was also an interest in the houses of rural governments. This has been asked before, and this morning I had a meeting with Riigi Kinnisvara AS. Just like the county centers, these houses are different. Here we are looking for solutions to how these houses can be used sensibly. Mr Ernits mentioned that the operational costs of the island watcher's tasks were estimated at EUR 76000, but the number of jobs was not specified in the draft. He asked if the Ministry of Finance was planning to present its views on the Small Islands Act by the end of May. The minister replied that there are currently 11 island guards on eight islands. The draft law moves as planned and is in the coordination circle, there must be disputes by the Ministry and then the law can be submitted to the Riigikogu. Hopefully this will happen in May. My colleague, Arto Aas, also asked about the social guarantees of rural and rural government workers. Mikhail Korb replied that, according to the regulations, a notice period of up to three months was provided for the dismissal of a rural elder. The farmer is paid one month's salary and is entitled to unemployment insurance until the end of the year. My colleague, Helmut Hallemaa, expressed his view that he did not support the establishment of a regional agency. The creation of an additional unit between government and local authorities is not reasonable in the context of a small country. The role of local government is growing as a result of the division of functions, but the transfer of tasks must be accompanied by funding, and it is therefore important to quickly restore the income base and recovery fund of local rural governments. There is now a clerical error, not the income base of local governments, but the restoration of the income base of local governments as quickly as possible. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda for the plenary session on 10 May 2017, that the first reading be closed, that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft be set at 5.15 p.m. on 24 May 2017 and that Ivari Padar, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, be appointed as rapporteur. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U511	Are there any questions for the Commission's rapporteur? March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U512	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! I had this misunderstanding in my head. The number of job losses or savings that you have said, and the savings in the payroll fund, in any way, do not match in proportion. Nearly half of the jobs will be lost, but only 1.2 or 1.3 million will be saved in the payroll, which you said. Where's the savings now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U513	I admit that I, too, have seen that this proportion is not the same. We are talking about losing about 200 jobs and cost savings are between 1.5 and 2 million. I have not yet come to the truth of where these scissors are, but in any case, this contradiction has stood out to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U514	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U515	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Here's the question. Just as the Minister said you said that these posts are moving to ministries and other agencies and it is possible that some officials will remain on the county level as well. Could it be that local governments have the so-called first hand of state in Tallinn? Could it be that officials have been sent to Tallinn and the first extension of the state's hand is in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U516	We have discussed these things a lot in the previous phase, and I must say that, in the Committee on State Reform, perhaps four times the focus of this draft has been on these positions in different reports. In general, efforts are being made to ensure that people who have performed these functions in the county should continue to perform these functions in the future in the county. This concerns in particular supervision and functions that move under ministries. This is being done, and I hope that in this case officials will not lose contact with local life. This is the main contingent spoken of, those who have been involved in the administration, administration and administration of rural governments. Now, if I remember correctly, this contingent is 170 people from this whole almost 500 community. On the other hand, it is my subjective opinion that, if we are now launching such centralisation processes, if we have a link, no horizontal link, and no responsibilities go to the ministries, it is possible that, in four or eight years' time, when the 'final' version of the administrative reform is in place, that is to say, the large counties that are under the authority of the municipality, there will also be decentralisation of certain tasks. But in today's schedule, what's being done makes the most sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U517	Thank you, Ivar Padar! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U518	Honourable Chairman! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The reform of the state, the reform of the state administration or the reorganisation of the administration of the state are given many names today, I believe, an important impetus, input and legislative start is given here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. In fact, this work has been done for quite a long time in the Riigikogu. The problem committee has been working on this for several months under the leadership of the previous speaker, the Chairman of the State Reform Problem Committee, and all these nuances have been discussed on each side. The Commission has been attended by representatives of rural governments, representatives of local governments, lawyer Jüri Raidla and the Chancellor of Justice, in fact all people express their views on this important matter. While we have been talking here so far about administrative territorial reform and changing borders, it was quite good to hear that it never came out of the question whether we have to lose or not to lose land governments. Obviously, we are now in a situation where this is an inevitable or inevitable course of action. I would particularly like to stress that I agree with Aivar Kokk, who has stressed as a former governor of the country that there are very good, industrious and competent people working in rural governments, many of whom will certainly find jobs as representatives of ministries in the counties, in local governments or in several public offices. The Head of the Police and Border Guard Board, who went to our group, claimed that people are still missing in several counties and that is why they are also looking at the officials of the county government. I dare say that this amendment, which is going to be a legislative start here today, was actually launched in 1993 when the rural governments were converted into a state. Until then, rural governments were self-governing. I myself have the experience of working in this self-governing county government. They really led, directed and organized the development of the county on their own. Most of the fields were under their authority and had money and resources for development as well. Unfortunately, after the country's government has become a state government, very many state agencies and their representations have been removed from the counties. A number of cases have been dealt with in the media, as well as in this hall and in the places where state offices are located, one unit is located in Pärnu, another is located in Rakvere or anywhere and is then managed by Järvamaa or Viljandi County or any county. I'm sure this thing needs to be cleaned up. I am not saying that this is bad, I am not giving an estimate that the county governments have largely become departments or divisions of the Ministry of Finance, and now this process is going on logically. It was also about jobs. I think it is important to point out once again that both the administrative reform and the reform of rural governments will reduce the number of people employed in the public sector by about 700 due to job losses. It is then in local governments and counties. And if you take the figure of 1000 that was set last year as a target of how much a campaign has to reduce the seats of civil servants in the public sector, then the order of magnitude is more or less the same. On that occasion, such funny and bad cases as the case of the Tartu clinic and some others, where layoffs actually took place because of layoffs. Let's hope it doesn't work out that the process makes sense. According to the Ministry of Finance, the posts are reduced by the reform of rural governments from around 480 to 260. Thus, between 200 and 220 jobs are lost in rural governments. Administrative reform in local governments will reduce jobs by nearly 500, and 480 to 500. And there is more to it than the next item, but Jüri Adams has pointed out that the number of council members will fall by about 900. Here it must be emphasised and, in my opinion, it is important to emphasise the need to strengthen communities and to extend and define their rights more clearly. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U519	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U520	In fact, when rural governments cease to operate, the functions go in four directions, four places. This is also the case with the next draft. Ministries and other public authorities have already been discussed in this draft. Many of the functions of rural governments go to municipalities. In addition, public transport will go to local authorities to jointly carry out their activities and local governments will continue to develop. It is clear that the role of local authorities is growing, they are becoming stronger. That's what we wanted. I think both the drafts that are in this Chamber today are voluminous and the nuances that have been brought out here in some sections need work, and that is what we are doing. Both drafts are important for the substantive administrative reform, to launch it. I would end up in such a way that, in addition to keeping the officials under the authority of the ministries in their positions, it is extremely important that we stand here together to ensure that vital services are available to people on the ground, in the region or at least in the county centres. That's what we have to stand for together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U521	Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U522	Thank you, manager. I'm asking for more time now!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U523	Three minutes more time right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U524	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since, under our Rules of Procedure, the possibilities for first reading are extremely limited, I can only mark. I would mark three things: firstly, the basic attitude of the Free Party to this reform, secondly, what we think of this draft, and thirdly, what we think of the forthcoming procedure. Since the substantive function of the first reading in the Riigikogu has, anyway, shifted to second reading, where everyone can speak, these things, which are important in this case, are basically necessary, which were asked questions about and which Mr Hallemaa has mentioned in his speech today, we will discuss when there are more time possibilities for doing so. Our approach in principle: the Free Party Group supports the abolition of positions of rural governments and rural elders. The countries of the world are still full of permanent institutions whose original function has disappeared. In this sense, the courage of the current government must be acknowledged. It is quite unusual in the world at all, but it is also unusual in Estonia. However, these words of recognition do not necessarily mean that we support any individual element of this reform. There are elements on which we think they are correct, there are elements on which we think they are wrong, and some should be negotiated. Now for the bill. As to the draft, it must be said that it is probably the worst cluster bill in the history of the Riigikogu that has ever been. I wasn't in the Riigikogu for 12 years, but I asked the others if they had seen anything so horrible, and I didn't get any claims that any of the drafts would have been like this. So far, I was of the opinion that the law on the implementation of the Cohabitation Act, which was discussed at the beginning of its composition, is probably the top of the 'terror', but it turns out that it is not. There was clearly an internal logic in that draft, even if I did not agree with it. As far as this bill is concerned, it is like an open-door day, all state institutions have been proposed: if you have any ideas that need to be included in some Estonian law, give it to us, we will push your text into this cluster. And as a result, the biggest anecdote is certainly the repeal of the agricultural reform law. Anecdote number 2 has come from the Ministry of Social Affairs. They have amended one law in their social field in 2013 and there is one paragraph that has not yet entered into force, which will only enter into force on 1 January 2019. It turns out that there has been one wordingal error in this paragraph that has not yet entered into force, so there is, among other things, one paragraph to correct the wordingal error that has absolutely nothing in common with this reform. Let us now look at the overall volume of this material and assess how much material would be needed in connection with this reform and how much is not necessary. According to my calculations, checks and estimates, at most one quarter of the material that is now before us is required. As they said here, there are 57 amendments to the law in the cluster. I am not saying that this necessary quarter is necessarily a quarter of the number of amendments to the law. I'm saying it's a quarter of the volume of the text. I'm perfectly capable of proving it, even by calculating star space or by essentially, but this is not the place or the time. The problem is the further procedure to be followed by this cluster. Officially, this cluster is in the proceedings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and we must be able to make amendments within ten days, which is, of course, absurd. In ten days, no one will even read it properly; the only way is for each of us to look at the paragraph that amends the law he knows most. That way, we could approach this cluster collectively. Then there are purely procedural problems. You see, about half of the volume of this law is one that thematically belongs to the competence of some other committees of the Riigikogu, not to the area of the Constitutional Committee. It would make sense if other committees, all committees of the Riigikogu were to be involved in this in a certain way, everyone would find a way to deal with or work with the chapters falling within their competence. Do not expect the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to do all this. We already had the experience of rubber stamping in this composition with regard to the administrative reform law. Are we going to a new rubber seal now? Here are two questions. One part is urgent things that are linked to the reform. And there are many other things that do not relate to the content of the reform in this bill at all, but an important part of which is probably also necessary for the further development of Estonian law and which should be done thoroughly and essentially. Now, under the speed of reform, are we doing superficial work on all this other part? This is a question for committees, but it is especially a question for the Board of the Riigikogu, the Chairman of the Riigikogu, who is currently sitting behind me. What, then, is the method by which we can achieve that the Riigikogu does quality work with material from both basically different groups? I don't have the answer right now. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have the opportunity to go into the history of Estonia with basically the biggest procedural cull that has ever been before the Riigikogu. Another possibility is that, if two successive governments have already rattled us into such a situation, perhaps we could find some way to come out of this together with the least negative consequences possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U525	Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U526	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll pick up where Jüri Adams ended up. Basically, our group also thinks that rural governments in the form they have existed have survived their time and that this institution is no longer necessary. So, in principle, we support this initiative. But what we cannot support is that this week, and also last week, we have been offered axe soup several times. Everyone knows the Russian fairy tale or the story of the Jack saying he's gonna put the pot on fire and that, you see, there's an axe to cook soup. So he threw that axe at me, and when somebody came and wanted to get a sip of that soup, they said, "But you gotta bring something in this pot." Who brought the carrot, who brought them, who brought the cabbage, and finally there was the axe soup. That's how we get the axe soup here all the time. The axe is that we're losing land governments, but then they weld beets, cabbages, potatoes, carrots and I don't know what else. They're offering cluster drafts in a row. Honourable representatives of the new political culture of this government and coalition! Do not offer us these axe soups; they make life difficult for us as members of the Riigikogu who support basically the matter. On the one hand, we would like to vote in favour, on the other, as if we wanted to vote against. This legislative practice is very bad. I remember that only six months ago, at least one of the current coalition parties strongly criticised this type of legislative practice. Remember, get your speeches out of the archives, your statements and give up, please, an ax soup offer for all of us! We're really, really tired of this ax soup. We would like to deal with polite legislation, peaceful legislation on a topic-by-theme basis, not in such a way that all the topics are wrapped up in the mortuary and you eat or don't eat, we praise this soup at the gourmet restaurant level anyway. Don't offer us an axe soup for gourmet food! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U527	There are no further requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 432. Attention, honourable Riigikogu! I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 24 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U528	The next item is the draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws relating to the implementation of administrative reform 433. The initiators' waitress is Mikhail Korb, Minister of State Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U529	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act and other laws relating to the implementation of administrative reform, which I am pleased to present briefly here. The draft in progress will increase the decision-making power and responsibility of the municipalities in the performance of their municipal tasks by providing state budget resources for the additional tasks. The draft is aimed at fulfilling the objectives of the administrative reform, i.e. increasing the capacity of the municipality, organising and managing local life. Good ambassadors! I will give a brief overview of the proposed changes. The municipality is obliged to organise the development planning of the county jointly with the draft. To this end, a regional development strategy or a regional development strategy is drawn up on the basis of which the development of the municipality of the county is directed, joint investments are planned and a link is established with the national sectoral strategies. The selection of the cooperation body through which the tasks are to be carried out is left to the decision of the municipality, for example, by the county council or the county development centre. It is possible for the state to take the joint development strategy of local governments into account when preparing the country's fiscal strategy. In addition, municipalities, together with local governments, must set up public transport centres by the end of the year at the latest or become a member of a public transport centre through which public transport of regional routes will be organised. This means that, if public transport has so far been organised by rural governments, it will be organised by public transport centres since the new year. I have asked the county elders to take on the transfer of public transport tasks and to start negotiations with their county authorities to set up public transport centres where they do not yet exist. People do not have to worry about whether or not the bus will pick them up at a stop in the new year. Yes, it will, and everything will work even after the land government has been abolished. The draft law provides for an exception for Hiiumaa and Saaremaa, the municipalities of Hiiumaa do not need to establish or join public transport centres. Instead, rural governments can conclude contracts until the end of the year and transfer public transport management tasks to municipalities in the county centre. The draft widens the opportunities for cooperation between municipalities. The amendment to the Planning Act allows for a general plan to be drawn up jointly for several rural municipalities or cities, with the agreement of the municipalities. The amendment to the Local Government Act allows the municipality to set up joint authorities, i.e. joint agencies and managing bodies, for the organisation of services, and to establish regional alliances instead of local authorities associations in the county. The establishment of joint agencies and institutions, as another area of cooperation, has long been awaited by municipalities, as this is an excellent opportunity to organise public services for municipalities on behalf of municipalities participating jointly in the joint administration, can be the subject of administrative acts, such as permits, misdemeanour procedures, fines in the event of infringements, etc. The performance of tasks through joint agencies and agencies is voluntary for municipalities. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Let me briefly explain to you the functioning of the joint agencies and agencies. The formation of joint offices and institutions within the territory of a specific municipality, i.e. the "lead municipality' territory, shall be the subject of an administrative agreement to be concluded by the participating municipalities. The common officials and staff are also part of the municipality in which the joint agencies are formed. The joint office and agency shall carry out the tasks on behalf of all the municipalities which have entrusted it with the tasks and shall be guided by the legislation of the municipality which has authorised the joint office to carry out the tasks. Each municipality shall jointly finance the joint authority and authorities and shall also adopt a statute governing the functioning of the joint authority or authority. The work of the Joint Authority or body shall be managed by the Head of the Agency or body where the participating municipality has set up a Board for strategic management, whose task is, for example, to make proposals to improve the quality of service of the Agency or body, to increase funding, to organise internal control, to appoint the Head of Administration and to carry out other tasks. The draft also includes the organisation of cultural and sports activities, which have been carried out by local governments on a voluntary basis so far, as one of the main tasks of local governments. The proposed amendments would enter into force on 1 January 2018, with the exception of the derogations related to the implementation of the administrative reform, their entry into force will be earlier, at the latest on the day of the announcement of the 2017 municipal elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U530	Questions for the initiators of the draft. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U531	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Fortunately, the current law is much better than the previous, discussed law, but some questions have arisen and I hope you can provide answers. For example, there is no substantive explanation in the explanatory memorandum regarding § 4 concerning the amendment of the Construction Code and the Planning Act Implementation Act. My interest is that there are deadlines here for reviewing the general plans. I understand that those municipalities in which there is no change in the administrative reform should review their overall plans by 1 January 2018, but those who are now joined should do so by 1 July 2018. However, only from 1 January will the new structure enter into force. How can public debates and priorities be established during the six months of the year in the course of the overall programming? Is this not too little time and where have such deadlines come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U532	Thank you for this question. I do not agree, in principle, with your argument that the quality of the previous draft law does not suffer criticism or that the law is of poor quality. I think the previous bill is very well done. There were a lot of people working on it, a lot of officials, and a very high degree of legal competence has been concentrated here. Yes, indeed, the law is complicated because rural government has been mentioned in quite a number of laws, and the legislation relating to rural government is quite numerous. This is what needs to be changed in different ways and in different ways. I think this law is very high-quality, and on this basis it can work very nicely. With regard specifically to your question and the planning law, we have discussed our proposal with MKM. The deadlines are really short, but I think that during the procedure of the draft law, it can be reviewed and tried again, if you feel that way, to change that deadline.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U533	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U534	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, However, this draft does not answer the question of what happens to the local governments' income base and division of tasks. On the previous draft, we learned that a large part of the people and money released from the county government are moving to the level of ministries, especially to the Ministry of Finance, not to the municipalities. It therefore seems that this administrative reform is moving towards centralisation and not towards local governments becoming their governments. But your predecessor, Mr Aas, quite early in answering our question, said that when the administrative reform is complete, he would leave and put out the fire. I now have this question for you: when will you put out the fire so that the municipalities can deliver without the ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U535	Thank you for your question. As far as the specific draft law is concerned, only those functions related to the cessation of the activities of the rural governments have been addressed here. We are in the process of completing another draft, or rather a document, in which we will concentrate all other tasks on the various areas that the state wishes to transfer to local authorities. In addition, preparations are under way to change the local government financing scheme. This job will be done immediately or more precisely, we will soon be ready to discuss it in the cabinet. We have done our part, and now we have to wait for our turn when we can discuss this in the office. With regard to the second half of your question, the deletion of the fire, I think that the form in which ministers who are not involved in specific ministries are responsible for different areas of government is the right one. This will give the government more flexibility to act in accordance with its priorities and wishes. Whether there is a place in the new government for the Minister of Public Administration is decided by the new coalition. As far as this particular activity or competence or regional area is concerned, I am convinced that there must, however, be one ministry that is clearly responsible for regional policy, whether or not there is a minister of state administration in Estonia. I think that in recent years our regional policy has been neglected and that the actions in this area have not produced the expected results. Regional policy must definitely continue in the Republic of Estonia, whether or not we have a minister of state administration. If not, of course, another minister will have to take responsibility for it. I would leave the answer to this question to the new coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U536	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U537	Good manager! Good waitress! Public transport is important, and most people who are dissatisfied say that it moves too rarely, at the wrong time, does not drive to the right place, and the stop is also on the wrong place. We have four public transport centres and, strangely, the public transport satisfaction rate for the residents of Harju and Tartumaa is high, about 80%, but in the case of two other public transport centres, Jõgevamaa and Järvamaa, the satisfaction rate is less than 40% to 49%. Now, if these four county governments are going to arrange transport, I don't know what will happen. Why is the difference so big? In Jõgeva County, where there is a public transport centre, only 49% of the population are satisfied, while Harjumaa is 80%.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U538	Thank you, good questioner! Thank you for this question. This is a very important issue in the context of the reform of rural governments, because it is really rural governments that are responsible very much for the organisation of public transport. Apart from the four counties you mentioned, this function is performed, i.e. it is provided by the county governments. These four centers in the counties have really been functioning for a long time. Their practice is very good and the feedback on their activities is very good. I think that the implementation of the model of the public transport centre across Estonia is the right direction. As far as ownership of public transport centres is concerned, we certainly do not intend that these four public transport centres will organise a public transport network throughout Estonia. To date, I have sent a letter to all rural elders asking them to set up public transport centres on the territory of these counties. We also ask local authorities to enter into negotiations to set up such public transport centres by the end of this year. At the moment, it seems that the whole of Estonia can be covered with such a network of public transport centres without problems. But whether counties or municipalities decide to set up their new public transport centre, join the existing one or form one on several municipalities, that is what we leave to them to decide. I think that these decisions will be taken, that our public transport will continue to work successfully and that its quality will continue to improve.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U539	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U540	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Indeed, this draft provides for three options for municipalities to be able to move as joint agencies. The first is regional, the second is regional and the third is, in fact, the agreement between the municipalities on the management contract to entrust these tasks to a single municipality for implementation. My question arises from the fact that there is still a situation where one county cannot, for any reason, set up a public transport centre. It may exist in a neighbouring country, but the neighbouring country is not yet ready to implement this regional model. What happens then? What kind of a solution would that be? Will the government intervene, for example, to propose to a neighbouring country, or how have you thought about this in concrete terms? In fact, the bill does not dismantle such a situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U541	Thank you for your question. Indeed, this draft does not describe this situation, although it describes the final result in all counties to be public transport centres, and they are given current contracts. There are several options for resolving this situation. There's a chance the Ministry will intervene. There is an opportunity to transfer functions to the neighbouring county transport centre. There is also the possibility of asking the county authorities, not all of them, but some of them to set up a public transport centre and then hand over contracts. I think it's a little premature to talk about this situation today, all the more so, according to the feedback, this is not the problem. All counties are able to create public transport centres. If there really is a problem situation, we're going to analyze what could be the best solution for them, there's a lot of them, and we're going to offer you a way out. I'm sure it won't go unorganized.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U542	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U543	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I have a question about the preparation, processing, adoption and publication of the county development strategy. Firstly, is it intended that the development strategy of the region should be approved by 2018, or should it be approved annually, and 2018 will be exempted? Because here, the decision-making process is pretty harsh in terms of the so-called quota of local governments. The second question: why has such a secret process been carried out that the corresponding working documents and minutes will not be published until seven days after the approval of the regional development strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U544	Thank you. I will answer your question in such a way that yes, 2018 is clearly an exception. It will apply from 2019, the first strategy must be confirmed by that date, and in the future it will have to be approved by that date each year. Is this time secret? I wouldn't say. It is a working document, and it is now based on the fact that there might be a way to work on this document, but I think that if local authorities think it needs to be made public, there will be an opportunity to do so at any time. I don't see a problem with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U545	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U546	Mr. Minister! The fact that you stood up for your subordinates, after I had cast certain doubts about their achievement, and very chivalrously, saying that they were the best and most professional subordinates in the world, I am very pleased, regardless of how it was. But I don't know if they told you, or if you've noticed that both in the previous and in this bill, there is a collapsing part of it, both of which change four laws, which are the same. Is there any reasonable explanation why packages of amendments to the same law are divided into different parts and put into several drafts?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U547	Thank you for your question and thank you for your comment. There's an explanation. Indeed, the second law that has now been proposed to you for discussion was developed whether or not the reform of rural governments would have been initiated. The changes introduced into this draft, i.e. the development strategy, the reorganisation of public transport and the joint institution, would have reached the Riigikogu anyway. The procedure for the draft was started much earlier and so the changes reached almost parallel halls. Of course, they could have been added up, but it was decided that this type of procedure would be better. In the case of the previous law, you have just asked that things be sectorally divided. There's at least some of the things in the separate laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U548	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U549	Good manager! Good minister! That's the question. New councils will also discuss such cases when it is necessary to change the boundaries of the municipality, for example, or even the name if you do not like it. If, at the moment, the composition of the council is to be decided by a majority, your proposal is that it should be done by a simple majority in the future. What's the point of this? Is it easier to change current, perhaps violently, names and boundaries? What do you mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U550	Thank you for your question. I do not think that such a wish would be much easier. Anyway, such questions are usually the decision of the majority of the coalition; otherwise, it is hardly possible to bring about such major changes for the local government. Here I can only answer so that, if it seems too mild or simple to you and you want to change this procedure, you can rethink it, consider it and make proposals in the course of the draft law procedure and the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U551	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U552	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You will bring a new point in the Local Government Organisation Act, which will also give officials and employees a so-called social guarantee in case someone loses their jobs during the administrative-territorial reform. The amount of the allowance shall be paid for three or six months. My first specific question is: what will it cost? Secondly, I ask why the same issue of social guarantees was not introduced into the Administrative Reform Act, which provided for benefits for so-called political positions. Now we also bring in officials and employees. Why this consideration, and what will it cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U553	Thank you. The biggest argument for introducing such a provision is certainly fairness, i.e. there will certainly be a situation in which a few people will lose their jobs in addition to the local government leaders. As far as the previous regulation is concerned, it would be too late to change it now, because this change should then take place afterwards, I mean after the decisions of the council. Secondly, if certain rules have already been laid down, which could in principle be considered as substantive rules of the reform, it would also be unfair to change them. These are probably the reasons for these two aspects. As far as the cost is concerned, I certainly cannot answer this question at the moment, because it is a question of the future. When I introduced the administrative reform spending to you today, it was about 1.2 million. The total cost has been calculated and the costs of this point have probably also been taken into account. I can't tell you the exact amount right now, because it's a little early to talk about it right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U554	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U555	Mr. Minister! With regard to this draft, which I consider to be a small cluster, the same comments that I had on the previous draft, although in other less drastic proportions. The most prominent part of § 10 is undoubtedly here, where there is an amendment to the pharmaceutical law, which establishes in Estonia, in this relatively competitive field, comprehensive rules different from how many and where pharmacies may be. Can you tell us some reasonable explanation why, along with the reform of rural governments, the order of pharmacies needs to be radically different?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U556	Thank you. I think that these changes have been made, in particular, not because of the reform of the county administration, but because of the addition of self-governing functions under the Local Government Organisation Act. But to this question of yours, I owe you an answer, I have to answer it later, even in writing. I don't know how to do this right now, I'm telling you the truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U557	There are no further questions for the Minister. Helmut Hallemaa will make a report on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U558	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, the most loyal and resilient! I will bring to you a summary of the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the draft law amending the organisation of local government and other laws. Since these two drafts are actually, as was said in the speech, two sides of one big thing, we also dealt with them in the Commission relatively together, even in a rather integrated way. Both the presentation and later questions were related to a certain paragraph and were due to it. Indeed, they are reflected in the minutes as two items on the agenda. Almost all members of the Commission were present on the Commission, only Jüri Adams was replaced by Küllik's Hatter. Mikhail Korb, Minister of Public Administration, was invited to play a key role. In addition to this item, Priidu Ristkok, Head of the Regional Development Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Olivia Talle, legal adviser to the same department, who also spoke quite thoroughly during the presentation. He was actually invited to the Commission's discussion on the previous point, but he also spoke at the discussion on the Local Government Organisation Act, or the KOKS Amendment Act. This was also done by Mart Uusjärv, adviser to the Regional Administration Department. Ain Tatter, Head of Roads and Railways Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Hindrek Allvee, Head of Transport and Traffic Services of the same Ministry also participated in the discussions. The members of the committee took the floor in the round of questions, and also before, Mr Hallemaa, Mr Vaher, Mr Kübarsepp, Mr Aas, Mr Laane and Mr Ernits. I think you got it all. I say that since this draft law 433 deals with the substance and makes very significant changes to four moments or points, the debate and the questions focused on them. Firstly, the organisation of cultural and sporting work, which was added during the negotiations with the ministries, is an additional function for the municipalities. As you will remember, there has also been talk in this Chamber about the fact that, in 2009, when the income base of local governments was reduced and a considerable part of their income tax was taken away, it was precisely sport and cultural work on which it was at the expense, and these steps justified the reduction of the tax base. In real life, however, local governments continued to support sport-cultural work themselves, and they are doing so now. According to the Ministry of Finance in 2015, the total amount of this field in the municipalities of Estonia was just over 204460000 euros. Another major change is the planning of the development of the county, which was already mentioned here, and it goes to the municipalities' associations to fill in. In this regard, too, we had quite a lot of discussion and questions in the Commission's discussions. The chairman of the committee, Ken-Marti Vaher, was interested in how the devolution of development to local governments is actually taking place and what funds are moving. These funds, which have now gone through rural governments into this area of development, will be transferred to local governments in the future. The advisory services provided through the Enterprise Estonia or also through the Foundation for Civil Society Foundation remain. Currently, most counties have solved it through their development centres. Development centres, which are foundations, must probably be re-established in many places when local governments have created them, because local governments are changing. Several municipalities and counties have already started to take over functions and form MAKs. The third, and perhaps the most important, change is the possibility of setting up joint agencies and institutions, which has not yet existed. In the past, other options have been sought from NGOs to other solutions. It was well appreciated by me and Arto Aas. Specifically, as to how this is going to happen, Küllik's Hatter asked as an alternate member of the Commission. I guess the explanations were the same as the one the Minister gave here. This creates the possibility to recruit more competent and expensive officials in cooperation with several municipalities and to perform certain functions jointly in the areas of planning, construction, etc. The law also allows the creation of joint institutions, such as hobbies, which in many places, especially around county centres, usually serve the entire county, especially the nearest municipalities of the county centre. The fourth major area, which changes the law on the organisation of local government and other laws, is public transport. This concerns public transport centres and the organisation of public transport in counties as well as in the country as a whole. As a whole, this area goes to the administration of the Road Administration, as we have learned. There were a number of practical and broader issues in this regard, particularly those concerning islands, especially Saaremaa. Kalle Laane asked whether or not to transfer ferry traffic and air traffic to county transport centres. It was said that the state still has to remain responsible for and will remain responsible for this area, through public transport centres. However, the current ferry and air traffic functions in the new municipalities and new counties remain trans-regional. Well, in the future, that may be the case again. A major discussion was also held on the same number of public transport centres and their administrative areas. In the Commission, we learned from representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs that today we are seriously considering organising joint transport in Harjumaa, Läänemaa and Raplamaaa, so that Raplamaa and Läänemaa will join the centre of Harjumaa. The same topic is raised in Jõgeva County, where it is likely to be organised together with Tartumaa. This possibility of joint organisation has also been discussed in South-Estonia and South-East Estonia. The very important question of restoring the local governments' revenue base, which has been mentioned here in the House, also came to the discussion in the Commission. I myself raised the issue of giving local governments important functions, as we have heard from the Minister's presentation today. There will be those that are wanted, and that is right, because municipalities will be strengthened and this will lead to changes in the revenue base of the municipalities. The current drafts address the problem of moving both jobs and functions to municipalities at the end of their work. In our committee, the Minister said what he did not mention here today, namely that the restoration and increase of the income base of local authorities is now behind the decisions of funding, particularly in the field of education. Then you can decide both the fine-tuning fund and the municipality's income base, at office level, before this topic comes to this hall. This is certainly one of the most important areas to be resolved. The state budget strategy includes 30 million local government budgets next year, and further EUR 45 million in 2019 and EUR 55 million in 2020. This will bring back an important part of the revenue base, and this is certainly important. In summary, we can say that we are moving in the right direction. Finally, we made the following procedural decisions in the Commission: to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda today, by 10 May, although, in the meantime, I was already afraid that it would suddenly have to be done within the framework of tomorrow, to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped, and to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. the deadline of 24 May 2017 at 5.15 p.m., and to appoint a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to act as rapporteur before you now. All the decisions were taken by consensus, but since the number of people later was different than at the beginning of the Commission's sitting, I will finally turn down who took part in the vote. Ken-Marti Vaher, Külliki Kübarsepp, Anneli Ott, Helmut Hallemaa, Ivari Padar, Kalle Laanet, Lauri Luik, Mart Nutt and Peeter Ernits made the decision at the time of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U559	The representative of the Estonian Free Party Group has a question for the rapporteur. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U560	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Indeed, there are many new tasks added to the local government. Is it possible, and to what extent, in the Commission to look at these additional tasks or at least get an idea of this in one of the possible financial coverage? We have here the National Audit Office made proposals that in fact there are also grey areas left in the division of tasks of the state and local government. Did you get a chance to map them, too? Are there any other issues that may not be directly addressed here, but which would also require an answer and financial cover for these major changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U561	Since we dealt with two very substantial laws, both in terms of content and in terms of pages and sections, we did not look further in this respect. However, speaking of the budget strategy, for which I also mentioned the figures, the budget volume of Estonian municipalities is now around 23.24% of the state budget. If these reforms all become reality and the tasks have been transferred, with funding, then there should be a 5 to 6% increase. If we now compare our Nordic neighbours to whom we want to move, as we have said, then it is roughly 52% in Finland, 55% in Sweden and 62% in Denmark. So there's still a long way to go. It is clear that the current draft concerns the tasks assigned to local governments during the reform of rural governments, as well as the issue of the revenue base in general was discussed in the Committee on State Reform. I think that all the packages that come into this hall are interlinked, and we certainly need to look at them together. So all the next steps, which came out in this round of questions today, are either the issue of state buildings or the provision of vital services on the ground, are sections of the organisation of one major public administration. I think that both are important for the municipalities, both the restoration of the revenue base and the addition of tasks, in the sense that the municipalities would become more serious as they become larger, and we would move towards the Nordic model.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U562	Dear waitress, thank you. No further questions. I will open negotiations with the representatives of the group. On behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U563	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, as a group of the Free Party, we have made it our goal since the establishment of our political party to contribute to making local governments more independent. It is our very serious wish that we should be able to talk about local government as our own government in the near future. This certainly means a newer model in the division of responsibilities of local governments. This means that we must increasingly follow the model of self-government as a representative of the community, i.e. find a way for each municipality to have the flexibility to take the municipalities that its population needs most, and consider whether it would be reasonable for the state to offer some more specific national services. We in the Special Committee on State Reform have given an example of care facilities for people with severe disabilities. Is it reasonable that each municipality should have these responsibilities in order to maintain this institution? Perhaps this is not reasonable and other solutions should be found here. We are talking about both this draft and the previous draft, or changes to the reform of COKS and rural governments, in the context of the reform of the state. In the long term, these objectives should be met. But what do we see now? We do not look at it in the context of the reform of the state, or we do not look at it as a complete picture of what the responsibilities of local governments could be. And we have in no way reached the issue of the revenue base, on which the capacity of local governments depends in many respects. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we received the answer that perhaps this week, perhaps tomorrow, the government will be ready to discuss this issue, but there has not yet been any information on whether it will be discussed or not. Maybe we're dating like we're taking different steps. It would make sense to influence all these things as a whole. Speaking of changing the Local Government Organisation Act, then in quality, I'll be honest, it's really better. Minister Korb, please close yourself in the office for one day and take these two laws by the same method: the law in force and what you have written down. And you're going to purge the hair because, really, I've already used that term once on this remote control, right now it's trying to stuff those ideas that aren't really meant for the purpose of this bill. This draft, in my opinion, would require very serious cooperation between the two committees. One of them is the Committee on Economic Affairs. The organisation of public transport is a very important service for the local population, especially in larger municipalities, where there is an even greater need to get from one place to another. For example, in Valgamaa, if you want to get from Puka to Otepää, this traffic only goes on three times a week. Maybe you can get to Otepää, but you still can't get back. These are major issues that certainly need to be resolved as a matter of urgency. I urge the Minister and the Chairman of the Commission to continue to resolve matters on a committee basis. In the case of the previous law, for example, there were a lot of topics in the Committee on Social Affairs, especially in view of the fact that we have many changes there that do not directly concern the disappearance of rural governments. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U564	Yes, please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U565	The Minister said here, in answering Mr Herkel's question: the briefcase of the Minister for Public Administration is to stay. Yes, these two laws will certainly confirm this, which will give the Minister of State Administration more power and perpetuate his need. But this statement that the Minister is doing regional policy alone is totally wrong. Every ministry, every state institution has to do regional policy. What are we missing now? Each impact analysis must be based on what changes or changes in our regions. This has not been done so far, although this should, in my opinion, be the very clear aim of government action. But we can't see that. I like that new services are being experimented with, for example, the creation of joint institutions, and this will help to re-establish the regional concept and give more opportunities. At the same time, when we look at these two laws as a package again, the municipalities do not have more rights, but rather many of the services that the county governments have provided are automatically moving to the administration of ministries. Inara had a very legitimate question as to whether Tallinn alone would become the centre in Estonian terms. There's a threat. Here is precisely the question that the concept of state houses does not exist. The Minister's answer was that this issue may now reach the Midsummer Government, but it still means that certain services will be lost over the course of the year or two. It is expected that at some point they will be handed over to state buildings instead of rural governments. Perhaps the solution will remain incomplete. Surveillance. This is very important, but in the case of the Land Government Reform Act, I was led to reflect on the fact that, indeed, some supervisory functions are provided for in the administration of a certain ministry. Remark: experts fear that monitoring will not be carried out on site and then try to point the finger at Tallinn. But local conditions, human abilities, etc. cannot really be appreciated unless people have been visited or dealt with. It is feared that in the end the officials of Tallinn will not be able to supervise in real places. I've got an idea now. I will just say one comment. In addition, the law on the organisation of this local government would have wanted to foresee how the decision of this local person is best maintained when it comes to a larger local government. We do not see many electoral circles here, which would allow the local person to still have the power of decision and to feel more in touch with power. Please, if possible, we will also be thinking in the near future that the community will not disappear in a large local government, but that its influence will increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U566	On behalf of the Group of the Andres Metsoja Isamaa and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U567	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber! In the opinion of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association, we are undoubtedly moving in the right direction with this draft, because strengthening local government is a key action that is essential. When it comes to the sustainability, services and credibility of communities at all, it is not possible to overcome or shift from this. After all, we are doing this in the best possible way at the moment, following the same principle of subsidiarity, i.e. those things that can be decided on the ground, must be decided there, not somewhere high and far away. True, this law provides frames and there is a great deal of room for cooperation, breathing space, very much of a world without borders. It is certainly not possible to lay down all of this very precisely in the law. Just as I asked the Minister how to act on one occasion or another, because we are not oracles and we are not able to predict all the facts. For me, perhaps the greatest cause of concern and some hesitation is the same public transport organisation. The fact that public transport could be taken over by the State, or the Road Administration, has been discussed for a very long time. Even all kinds of plans have been made, but there has been little initiative or zeal from local authorities. Indeed, we currently have four public transport centres in Estonia, where major steps have actually been taken. I really dare to point out, here, in particular, that the public transport centre of my country, in particular, is the only one where the city-region public transport network is combined. Look, ladies and gentlemen, there is the question. It is not only a matter of local governments coming together in the county and solving the problem of public transport on the territory of their county, with the exception of the county centre and the city, because all services are gathered in the centres, but they must be integrated evenly, with the county centre. The fact that when we look at Harjumaa, the city of Tallinn is currently not part of Harjumaa public transport is also a source of excitement to me, but at the same time we are going to make a larger regional one. Here, municipalities have places to think about and deal with intensively. But it requires trust and ambition and, indeed, the removal of certain restrictions on the law. There is no doubt that it is also very important for municipalities to integrate their student transport routes, education lines into this same public transport network. There would certainly be a key place in taxiing to organise the transportation of children's schools better, as the demand bus system is perhaps too costly for the Estonian state at times and not comfortable enough. The question is where it is possible to offer public transport in Estonia in the way we are used to, i.e. there is a bus stop. Maybe we should let a little thought fly and look for new alternatives here. There is no doubt that the transport network is a whole. Will we still be able to start a public transport network immediately so that rail connections, train times, bus times, timetables and, in certain cases, air connections can all fit into this one network? It may be that it is extremely difficult to want all of this together, but you have to strive for it every day. It is precisely in this Chamber that I would like to emphasise that the legislator has provided the framework and the possibilities, but now the real serious work in a world without borders begins. The borders are during the elections, but at any other time, people need to get to work, home and who knows where else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U568	There are no further requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 433. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of draft 433 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 24 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U569	Today's latest item is the first reading of the draft Environmental Impact Assessment and Amendment Act 415 initiated by the Government of the Republic. To present the speech chair, Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U570	Good evening, President-in-Office and good members of the Riigikogu. As the minister responsible for saving, I have already become a good habit of deleting the lights in the Riigikogu at night with the reading of my latest drafts. This time, you have before you the Act on Environmental Impact Assessment and the Amendment of the Environmental Management System Act. What do you need it for? Dear Riigikogu! We have submitted such a draft act to you because it is a draft act transposing Directive 2014/52/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council into Estonian law. This Directive amends the existing Directive 2011/92/EU on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment. The main task of the environmental impact assessment is to provide the licensing authority with information on the expected impact of the proposed activities on the environment. The information collected in the course of the procedure shall form the basis for granting or not granting authorizations. For example, in the case of environmental permits, the permit is generally granted by the Environmental Board, in the case of construction permits, mostly by local authorities. The transposition of Directive 2014/52/EU clarifies the procedural requirements and improves the quality of environmental impact assessment in Estonia. It also meets the directive's objective of raising the level of protection of the environment and human health. The draft law does not propose major changes, as several amendments to the directive are already included in the Estonian legal system. In particular, existing standards will be clarified and some points will be added. The main changes relate to the ex ante evaluation procedure. The ex-ante evaluation is a procedural step to determine whether an environmental impact assessment is necessary if it is not mandatory to initiate it. As a new requirement, the developer, the person carrying out the activity, must provide a minimum of information for an ex-ante assessment, including, for example, a description of the planned activity and its location and the significant environmental impact involved. In doing so, the authorisation holder will have even more reason to decide whether or not to initiate an environmental impact assessment. This decision is still to be taken within the period of processing of the application for authorisation provided for in the legislation, but in the case of an ex ante evaluation, no later than 90 days after the minimum information from the developer is received. In summary, the proposed changes to the ex-ante evaluation regulation may lead to a decrease in the overall number of environmental impact assessments. While the current Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act lists the content requirements of the ex-ante assessment and the Environmental Impact Assessment report in the main text of the Act, the new approach is to lay down these requirements in two Regulations of the Environment Ministers. This amendment facilitates the implementation of the law, since the lists in the regulations can be used as checklists and the material is produced in the light of the logical structure. It can also be said that the minimum time limit for the public display of the EIA report will be extended from 21 to 30 days. This means that all interested parties will be given more time to familiarise themselves with the materials. With a view to ensuring final decisions based on up-to-date material, the authorisation holder shall be required to assess the appropriateness of the EIA report when granting or not issuing an authorisation. In justified cases, the developer has the right to seek further peer review, as well as to harmonise the environmental impact assessment report and the granting or non-authorisation and the links between them. Honourable Riigikogu, I ask you to support the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U571	The round of questions for the minister will be opened by Küllik's Hatter. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U572	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! As I understand it, the explanatory memorandum has tried to say that, unfortunately, it is not possible to list some of the beneficiaries of the final draft. There are so many institutions and companies that are affected. Since one of the ministers of the IRL has adopted the norm to combat the proliferation of bureaucracy, I have this question. Looking at the applicant's point of view, how much red tape will this increase or reduce if this directive is implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U573	Thanks! It is possible to save the applicant time if he/she immediately provides sufficient data to enable the authorisation holder to decide whether or not an environmental impact assessment is necessary. Often, there has been a situation so far where the data has been insufficient, which makes it necessary to ask for additional data. Now that these minimum requirements are in place, I can say that we can save time. Based on the fact that the information is sufficient, we expect the number of environmental impact assessments needed to be reduced. It is clear that this does not necessarily need to be done on the basis of the requirements underlying the environmental impact assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U574	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U575	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The content points of the Environmental Impact Assessment report were defined very precisely in the previous Act. They will now be placed in a ministerial decree. How useful do you consider this amendment to be and, in turn, can it not result in an increase in the administrative burden that has already been feared?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U576	Thanks! If we have brought such a proposal before you, then we will therefore support such a proposal. That makes sense! As far as flexibility is concerned, it will certainly be possible, on the basis of the needs that time brings, to change the regulation more up-to-date than any legislative procedure that can and will take a year or more with its preparation process. No, I don't see an increase in bureaucracy here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U577	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U578	Good manager! Good minister! This is another directive that has been adopted three years ago, a transitional period of three years, and I read that the draft that you are presenting to us must have been adopted by next Monday, 15 May. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U579	Thanks! I will answer you in such a way that I, as Minister, cannot, of course, put pressure on you. Still deal with the thoroughness you need.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U580	Thanks to the Minister, too! There are no more questions. A presentation by Valeri Korb, member of the Environment Commission, will be made by the Steering Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U581	Ladies and gentlemen, The meeting of the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu took place on Monday 17 April 2017. Mr Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, was, of course, invited to the meeting of the Commission, and Rainer Persidski, Chief Specialist of Environmental Management at the Ministry of the Environment, was also present. On the agenda was the discussion of the draft law amending the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act. Our committee chairman, Mr Rainer Vakra, noted that the draft was launched in the Government of the Republic on 30 March. The Minister for the Environment, Mr Marko Pomerants, explained that the draft directive transposes a directive aimed at ensuring the protection of the environment and human health through the establishment of common minimum environmental impact assessment requirements. As regards the transposition of the Directive, it was said that the deadline would be 16 May 2017. First of all, these are the clarifications of the ex-ante environmental impact assessment. With regard to the content requirement of the report, the Minister noted that they would make the ex-ante evaluation more meaningful and of high quality. In addition, the draft introduces two mandates from the Minister for the Environment, which require the Minister to establish by regulation the detailed requirements of the content of the ex-ante assessment and the environmental impact assessment report. Mr Vakra, Chairman of the Commission, asked what was the content of the change in the distinction between the environmental impact assessment of the closure of the landfill. In addition, Rainer Persidski replied that the distinction was not about the authorisation, but about the closure of the landfill and the environmental impact assessment to be carried out before the closure plan was drawn up. Mr Rainer Vakra was also interested in which stakeholders were involved in drafting the draft. The reply explained that since 2014 a number of discussion meetings have been organised with cooperation partners, including the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Environmental Impact Assessment Society, the Estonian Environmental Association, etc. Valeri Korb asked why it is important for the decision-maker to require further expert judgment from the developer in a justified case. The Minister explained that this was an optimal solution for additional information, and Mr Persidski said that it was important when there was a very long time between environmental impact assessment and authorisation, a period during which the situation had often changed. The additional expert assessment shall ensure the timing and relevance of the decision. The expert evaluation can also address possible individual issues that have arisen in the meantime. After all the questions had been exhausted, the Commission decided to appoint Valeri Korb, member of the Committee on the Environment, to propose that the first reading be closed (consensus) and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 16 May at 4 p.m. (also by consensus). That is all that happened in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U582	There is at least one more question in the large Chamber. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U583	Good manager! Good waitress! Explain to me how it will still be possible to transpose the directive in three days after three years of implementation. There are three working days until Tuesday: Thursday, Monday and Tuesday.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U584	We discussed it at 17.04 in April. The Commission's decision was then made. And that day, 16 May, was set by a Commission decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-10_U585	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no more questions. If the political groups wish, I will open negotiations. You don't want to see that. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 415. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 415 amendments at 16 May at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a long but busy day. I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 21.37 p.m.
