ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the 11th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to hand over drafts or enquiries? Yes, it is. First please address the Külliiki Hatter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U2	Good morning, everyone! On behalf of the Free Party Group, I will hand over the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Proposal to the Government of the Republic to amend 'Estonian Forest Development Plan until 2020'. In fact, we have found that it is unreasonable to change the volume of felling through the forestry development plan and other documents; rather, it makes sense to base the calculation of the volume of felling on what is happening in the private forest and to regulate the volume of felling in the state forest. We want the development plan to ensure that the principles of sustainable forest management are respected. On the basis of these principles, the felling of the forest shall not exceed its growth by species of wood. The amendments could enter into force and should enter into force on 1 January 2018. We know that it is not until next year that it is planned to start discussions on the development plan, but looking at the current forest debate and the readiness of society to go along with the subject, it would be wise to make changes as early as this year. It is very important that this current development plan does not support the fact that the state forest must under no circumstances be cut down to implement the state budget. This is our common property, which we must hold and develop together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U3	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Here I hand over the draft law amending the Sport Act on behalf of the members of the sports and movement support group of the Riigikogu. Chapter 2 of the Sport Act, adopted in 2005, provides the Olympic Winner with a state subsidy which should have been adjusted annually according to the average wage growth curve. In reality, however, this rate has not been changed in the past 12 years. At first, the Olympic winner's public grant was planned to be the average monthly wage of one-and-a-half, and now it has fallen to slightly more than half the average monthly wage. With this bill, we will try to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U5	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now the messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be a meeting of the Cyber Security Support Group in this Chamber. This group is convened by a good colleague, Arto Aas. Anyone who wishes to join the Cyber Security Support Group, please go to my colleague Asa after the end of the sitting. Now, let's do the presence check. 91 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U6	We are going to address today's agenda items. The first item is the third reading of the draft Act 189 on the Amendment to the European Union Citizens' Act and the Equal Treatment Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to negotiate? No, it's not. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 189. Before I vote on the Bill 189 on the Amendment to the European Union Citizens' Act and the Equal Treatment Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, we all invite the Chamber. I am voting on the draft Act 189 on the Amendment to the European Union Citizens' Act and the Equal Treatment Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 6 against and no one abstained. Bill 189 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U7	The second item is the key national question 'Where is the balance in the forest? ' debate. According to § 153 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decided on the next procedure for discussing the important state issue initiated by the Estonian Free Party on the proposal of the political group. First of all, there is a presentation by the ecologist and forest scientist, former Minister of Environment Toomas Frey, which lasts up to 15 minutes. Then there are questions and answers that last up to 20 minutes. After that, the presentation of Asko Lõhmus, member of the Forest Council, is a leading researcher at the Institute of Ecology and Earth Sciences of the University of Tartu, which lasts up to 15 minutes. The questions and answers that follow will last up to 20 minutes. Thirdly, the Riigikogu is a presentation by Artur Talvik, Chairman of the Special Committee against Corruption, Rural Affairs Committee and member of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, which lasts up to 15 minutes. After that, there are questions and answers that last up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. Then there will be negotiations, members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups can speak. I also propose that the representatives of the political groups get the floor first on behalf of the political groups. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. Now I'm calling the first waitress, ecologist and forest scientist, Toomas Frey. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U8	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! I have the opportunity to present my views on forestry to you. I consider it very important to stress that our forestry situation is complex and worrying. From ancient times, we remember very clearly how the then forestry manager Heino Teder knew how to keep the forest and increase its surface area by talking to the collective farms through the afforestation of fields and pastures that were left behind. Thus, 30 to 40 years ago, there was a marked increase in the area of the forest. Our entire community has been constantly interested in nature, all through the ages, and has been active in adopting various regulatory laws. Of these, the most remarkable is the 1934 Forest Act. It is interesting to note its paragraph 80, which states that the Minister of Agriculture is to appoint a forest conservation committee. It is a strong desire to ask whether, even today, a Forest Preservation Committee could not be set up with the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This slide lists the laws you have, of course, seen, read and know. So you shouldn't stop at it anymore. The most important thing is that during the time of Minister Reiljan (he also had advisers, well-known forest scientists Ivar Etverk and Toomas Frey) a new forest law was drawn up for a long time, but due to land reform and other changes it was not easy to reach any decision until we finally developed a law on sustainable development, the content of which is the precise regulation of the use of forest resources. To this end, a critical margin will be established by a decision of the Government on the proposal of the Minister for the Environment. This critical stock is logically taking the mature forest, all the area under it. For the last 20 years, harvested trees have been considered to be 80-100-year-old conifers. This critical stock should be a permanent size, which could only change as the ripening forest turns into a mature forest each year, for example, 1900 hectares in the case of spruce. As the increase in the ripening forest is 1.8 million hectares this year, this section of the forest should also be cut down and the stock of the mature forest remains unchanged. This is important for two reasons. Firstly, in the ecological development process, only mature forests are perfect in terms of biodiversity and habitat wealth; there are many species and they are preserved there. On the other hand, the volume fixed in this way also means the introduction of a carbon quota with its limitations or, rightly, regulation in this area. So this also goes into the carbon quota calculation. This stock is the reserve or surface area that moves from a ripe forest to a mature forest every year and increases it. The increase in the ripe forest is the part of how much ripe forest comes. But now that we're talking publicly about chopping within the limits of growth, it's demagoguery. This 6.8%, which the current methods take into account, is the rate of forest growth, but it is not the size of growth. The result of the growth, the size of the growth is the harvested forest and we cut it, we do not cut the growth rate of the forest. So the comparison with the current increment is pointless or uneducated. But the main problem is that we have not only nature keepers and intellectuals but also forest users, forest workers, as they are called fondly. In their opinion, the forest is not a living environment or natural wealth, but a source of money. This creates a great contradiction in our society. The distribution of felling areas or, quite rightly, growing areas by age classes clearly shows that we have a much younger, middle-aged forest and its growth is really fast. This red line on this slide shows the rate of growth in the corresponding age bracket. If you look at the total area, however, it turns out that the growth rate is not that high, because in forests up to 10 years of age and over 80 years of age, the increase is negligible, so the total area cannot multiply it by 6.8. This upper, brighter part is the area of a private forest and the lower part is the area of a state forest. This graph is about the spruce. If the total surface area of spruce is 192000 hectares, we can use 1900 hectares each year. If you look at the graph here, you can see that 1900 hectares are no longer in the logging forest, it's already been cut off. In the case of spruce, there is already a minimum of five years' notice. This means that cutting should be stopped. It could be stopped in such a way that the existing forest law should be declared null and void. It was adopted in a situation where the law on sustainable development was in force, which had been adopted in 1995. It is against the state that the government does not comply with the current law on sustainable development. The government does not comply with the law and passes a new law, which is the law of ruining the forest. There is no limit in this law to how much can be cut. It's just been said that there are railings. There are seven species, and it has been said that among them is what is currently economically appropriate. The extent to which the forest is felled will be decided only by a decision of the Minister: on 1 December, he declares that during the next five years the felling volume will be such. But there is nothing else, it is not due to the law, simply by the decision of the Management Board of the State Forest Management Centre (RMK), he is told this number in advance. I'd really like to be a little rude and remember a story I heard from Hiiumaa. Mom's gonna run Antsu over the bar: "Ants, get to work! The cocks are already singing. ' But Ants says, "Kuked? I'm not getting involved in this! ' And sleeps on. The Ministry of the Environment should be more active and know what he's doing. For example, no biodiversity programme has been launched. There are many outstanding problems with the law on sustainable development. It is not against the government that the people come to the street to picket. People pickle because the government is engaged in anti-government activities. As far as cutting is concerned, if 3 million hectares are cut down and sold for EUR 120 million, the price will be only EUR 40 per cubic metre. The price of the firewood is also about 30 euros. At the same time, 30 million euros will be transferred to the state budget by decision of the Bureau this year, i.e. 30 million euros per 3 million cubic metres, so one cubic metre will cost 10 euros, which is well below the price of the firewood. The rest of the money goes to the management of RMK, because even forest management and forestry training take place from the state budget, not from RMK's money. These circumstances force us to ask whether we can and will accept the situation or whether it is necessary to raise the question of the need to implement the law on sustainable development as it has been adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U9	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Please wait, there may be questions for you. Yes, it is. First Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Frey, for your presentation and this message. You criticised quite strongly both the Forest Act and the lack of compliance with the Sustainable Development Act. Tell me, please, how should this current increment be calculated? Is it possible that the forest has started to grow much faster, or is it still a mistake in the methodology used by the Ministry of the Environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U11	I think that this methodology is more or less usable, because it differs only 20% from the five cubic metres per hectare so far, because forest law permits major errors. But what is important is that, in the former fields and pastures, the forest has a very large share of younger age classes, these forests are really growing fast. Now, if you sums this up nicely in the middle, you can say that the growth rate of the existing forest is great, because there are many young people. We have already cut off the felled forest and the slow-growing areas can no longer be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U12	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U13	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! During our last discussion in this Chamber about the Forest Act, quite a question was discussed if it was appropriate to cut the old spruce, it is a reasonable limit for 80 or 60 years. What's your position? Do you maybe specify what you said on the basis of which the cutting of spruce is five years ahead of the reasonable limit?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U14	I was based on this estimate that if we divide the total area of 100 years into sections, we can see that in the last 20 years, the area has been so small that there is nothing left to cut. Actually, there should be at least half the surface area left. I'm sorry I couldn't use the flash drive right now. I've got one more drawing, that's what shows this overcutting part. But it can be calculated, these data are there. At age it is, of course, wrong to chop a 60-year-old spruce. That's my understanding. Even in 80-year-old spruce trees, as you can see here, there are still quite a few percent, 3% to 4%. The rumor that the root wash is spreading has long been spoken of. I know that these "bottlenecks" still spread on former pastures and now on former arable land, where the nitrogen content in the soil is high. This contributes to the growth of the spruce in particular in the direction of a high percentage of cellulose in the wood. It's very good for mushrooms. It spreads faster and better where the wood is pectinated and rich in cellulose. But this is not the kind of thing that can be reflected in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U15	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U16	Good manager! Good waitress! Of the people in this hall, you probably know the tree best. Now explain this to us who don't know the tree so well. We've been told that there's so much spruce in the rabbit cabbage type that when we're 60, we want an axe or prey, and we have to meet him here. Moreover, these are nested and dried trees, so chopping is the only option possible. As an expert on the Christmas tree, make us wooden and red why we are told such a story.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U17	The reason is clear and simple: Christmas trees are the easiest to sell, buyers are always and are offered a good price. Since the harvested tree has already been cut down, there is no other choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U18	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U19	Thank you. Honourable performer! You're talking about things here that we've never even heard before and that haven't been spoken about in the media. Very good report, thank you for that. But have your thoughts or views been heard by the current government and the Minister of the Environment Pomerants? Are they familiar with your views, or are you just talking about it in the company of your acquaintances?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U20	I didn't understand the point of the question. Can you repeat that, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U21	Can we give Heimar Leng another microphone so he can ask the question again?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U22	I will ask briefly: has the current government and Minister Pomerants been familiar with and familiar with your views?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U23	I think they've met them superficially, but they're not exactly familiar because I haven't had official contact with them and they haven't been interested in me. I wrote an article on Earthpaper. They've read it. I know that because Andres Talijärv sent me an e-mail the next morning.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U24	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Today's theme setting is 'Where's the balance in the woods? '. In a bureaucratic way, the balance should be in the forest management plan. How do you comment on whether all this time the forest management plans have been manipulated if Estonia is now in this situation? Has the felling notifications led to more cutting than our forest balance actually allows?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U26	Yeah, that's really it. They do not take into account the principles of the law on sustainable development or the principles of permanent use. Permanent use means that if the logging is a hundred years, we will not be able to take advantage of more than one century in one year, because there must be something in the next years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U27	Well, the Hatter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U28	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress, thank you for your presentation. I actually have two questions, but I'm going to ask one of them. What's your assessment of how we're cutting if that's what's going on? How sustainable are our forest techniques and forest management methods? Do they provide the basis and prerequisite for the increase in quality forest that could take place over the next five years?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U29	Thank you. I believe that the harvester has many positive qualities and can work very well with it. Of course, much depends on training, how the driver copes with this complex machine. Forest traders have such a claim: a harvester has such an expensive dick that it has to work all the time, otherwise it does not justify its existence. But I say, "The cereal mill is also a terrible expensive cock, so does it have to work all the time, all year round? " The men of the cereal harvesters might say, "Yes, chop down the forest, then we'll put all the weed or rape under it, and our machines will be able to work all year round. "
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U30	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! We have been told by experts that depending on the soil bonite, where the forest is planted, the spruce can really mature at 60 years of age. If you let him grow to 80 years, that is actually a financial loss in terms of management. Are these statements correct or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U32	No, it's not. There is nothing behind these claims but an interest in selling the forest. As far as planting is concerned, the 21 million plants that have now been declared are in fact not enough when 10 million hectares were cut down.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U33	Monika Haukanõmm.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Thank you very much for this very good and clear presentation. Of course, it was very sad to hear that the current Minister for the Environment, Mr Pomerants, has not taken an interest in your opinion, but hopefully he will do so after today's debate. My question, however, is that most of the discussion in society has taken place about when to cut down a tree, either when it is 60 years old or when it is 80 years old. But we also have other very valuable tree species, coniferous trees, such as pine or hardwood. What do you think is the situation with the cutting of other species of wood today? Have we behaved in a sustainable and rational way or rather recklessly?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U35	It is impossible to sum up this immediately; it would require a beautifully large advance work in the data sets; we should look at the situation with hardwoods. In general, felling of deciduous trees is less than acceptable, only cutting of wounds is more or less equal to a sustainable principle. The pine is also cut more or less within the normal range, except for better bonitees (A1 and A2). If we look at the SMI tables, where the state of 2015, there are 20 tables, we see that the average reserve for pine and spruce is 250, 245 etc. But when we look at the report on how RMK has cut it, we can see that 3 million cubic metres have been obtained from 10,000 hectares. Consequently, the average per hectare was 300, not 250, and only better forests have been cut. If the fifth bonite had been cut, the average wouldn't be 3 million, it would be 2.5.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U36	Krista Aru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U38	Yeah, I've got...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U39	My question...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U40	Wait, I didn't get it. Is that another question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U41	Yeah, it's time for questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U42	My question concerns one of your very determined claims that the Forest Act should be repealed. But we also have a forestry development plan. Should this also be repealed? In order to preserve the forest as an environment, should we return to the law on sustainable development and expect the best education when looking at and assessing the forest as an environment? What should be done to get out of this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U43	The question is very substantive and I will answer it in substance. This can be decided by the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu is a representative of the people. § 5 of the Constitution states that natural resources are national wealth and must be used sustainably. This section is currently in all kinds of danger and the Riigikogu must be able to set order here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U44	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U45	Thank you, the director of the story. Dear Toomas Frey! In your report, you also reflected the thoughts or suggestions you want to make to supplement the new Forest Act. One thought was about the country's tasks in forestry. You have added the idea that, in addition to accounting for forest resources, account should be taken of the stock used up to the critical stock. Have you made any calculations of how the addition of this thought would affect logging or replanting? It's a little long.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U46	Planting a new forest would be beneficial. As you can see, the leftmost column on this graph is relatively low, it should be higher. It should be as high as the other columns, it would be perfect if all columns were exactly the same height. Then, in all years, the reserves would be the same, and we could chop for a hundred years in the same way. But the idea that the law on sustainable development requires the establishment of a critical stock is that spruce and pine trees must have as large a surface as the average is meant to have an increase of 1900 hectares each year. There's no art here. However, what forest workers say is a matter of nature. Their thinking is quite different; they contrast their thinking with the thinking of the intellectuals.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U47	Since these slides are no longer on the big screen, I say that the honourable waitress believed to have referred to the slide with the number 5. The printouts are available to you at the back of the Chamber. This column on the left indicates an increase in spruce area in the younger age group. Let this be explained, because we already have new pictures of land and sea on the table. Sorry, sorry, there are still questions. Please come back, there are more questions for you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U48	Isn't the time for questions over? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U49	Two minutes and 17 seconds left. Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U50	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! In Estonia, forestry education has been provided for many decades, and we have, you could say, dynasty forest scientists. How do you assess the quality of forestry education provided in Estonia and whether it is worth listening to forestry scientists when making our decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U51	I must say that a summary assessment is not possible and must not be made. People are different, and the nature, abilities and knowledge of teaching staff are not exactly the same. One faculty can communicate their knowledge better than the other. There are people and others in the faculty and there are advocates and opponents of sustainable forest law. But in the middle, this education is satisfactory. After all, we've had some very long preparatory work, a lot of good textbooks, starting with Daniel and Mathiesen's books. We also have a variety of newer publications, so the picture is quite neat. How can one or the other faculty use all this? I think they can handle it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U52	Thank you very much for the waitress. There really is no more time to ask questions now. I'm sorry to Ain and Helmut! Let's keep going. The next waitress is Asko Lõhmus, a leading researcher at the Institute of Ecology and Earth Sciences of the University of Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U53	I have three proposals here, I will pass them on in writing, because there weren't any on the slides. They're a little late, they were on the stick, but they told me this stick couldn't be used. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U54	Thank you. Okay. And now Asko Lõhmus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U55	Honourable Riigikogu Board, members of the Riigikogu and guests! As a economist, it is a great honour for me to tell you what I think of the forest and the Estonian forest in particular. This sustainability science, to which I refer, is a quite new discipline that seeks to analyse the relationship between nature and human society, with the aim of finding practical ways to ensure the best possible and safe state of play and the future of the natural environment and human quality of life. Practical opportunities range from international agreements to individual consumer decisions. It's my specialty, let's say so. The main thing I have to say here today is that the forest is a very complex and large-scale system and researchers are generally concerned that countries, societies and politicians tend to manage the forest on the basis of very primitive simplifications. If you use a nice Estonian word, you can say that the axe method is a dangerous method in every sense when you talk about the forest. I have three messages. Firstly, in the form of a concept of sustainable forest management, we have both a clear methodological guide and a valid political agreement for the wise management of forest management and forests. Secondly, in the last ten years, Estonia's actual forest policy has gradually moved away from this foundation and agreement, and the state is already developing the timber industry strongly at the expense of other forest benefits. Thirdly, this trend is a long-term security risk which I believe should be removed quickly. Now I'm talking about the complexity of the forest. I'll start with a foreign example. Nearly 6 million square miles [6 million sq km] of Amazonian rain forest is probably something very large and may seem very stable. It holds about 10% of all land carbon and about 10% of all biota species. It regulates rainfall on site and even in other parts of the world. According to recent scientific calculations, three consecutive years of severe drought will suffice to destroy this system. The likelihood that such droughts will occur as a result of global warming and the destruction of forest cover in this century is very high. Moreover, scientists have known for several decades that this whole large system depends very heavily on the phosphorus contained in the soil , and every year a very large part of this phosphorus is washed out of the rainforest with the floodes and rivers. There's something coming from somewhere to replace it. It turns out that what comes in its place is winding up across the Atlantic Ocean from the Saharan desert. In this way, 30 kilograms of phosphorus per hectare per hectare of rainforest are deposited each year. This phosphorus dust itself comes from prehistoric algae that lived on the bottom of the lakes that have dried up in the Sahara Desert. If we imagine the theoretical possibility that the earth's climate system will change and the winds will change direction, then perhaps at some point Estonian phosphorus is needed to save the South American rain forest. This example reflects how scientists today understand ecosystems. They are only seemingly balanced, involving different scales and a huge number of feedback mechanisms. When a person manages and uses the forest, the complexity of nature is added to the complexity of society and economy. This general scheme applies both in the rainforest and in the Estonian forest. So the answer to question 'Where is the balance in the forest? " First of all, this complexity will be simplified to a sufficient number of wise questions and answers. This is the task of intelligent simplification that is carried out by the concept of sustainable forest management, which is also enshrined in our official forest policy. I will read out this short definition just in case, and we will recall this: 'Sustainable forest management includes the maintenance and use of forests and forest areas in such a way and at a pace as to ensure their biodiversity, productivity, renewal capacity, viability and potential now, and will continue to enable ecological, economic and social functions at local, national and global levels to be fulfilled in the future without damaging other ecosystems. " Complicated, isn't it? But over the last 20 years, scientists have done a lot of work to give these words substance. So we can say that we know, in theory, where this balance in forest management should be and what the state should do to achieve it. Now three thoughts. Firstly, it is necessary to balance ecological and economic, social and cultural considerations on an equal footing. In doing so, account must be taken of the best available knowledge and functions to be combined as far as possible and separated as necessary. This balancing should start with forestry legislation, which should take place in all forms of ownership. Secondly, for all three areas, we need up-to-date, reliable and sufficient information so that we can constantly correct errors and respond to changes by monitoring the state of forestry. Thirdly, it concerns civil peace efforts, it would be necessary to build a flexible social system that would involve stakeholders and thereby mitigate long-term risks. These risks relate to all kinds of changes, to changes in global and local society, and to knowledge that does not exist at present. For example, what are we going to do if Estonia's already overwhelmed spruce would spread a devastating disease like island death? Or what are the needs of the next generations that we are legally supposed to take into account? I have tried to influence and understand Estonia's forest policy as an expert for 20 years, and I believe that the state is not doing enough of one, the other and the third. The draft law amending the Forest Act, however, reinforces this problem. Now some more specific comments. First of all, I'm talking about balancing. Over the last year, all interested parties have had the opportunity to follow the responses that have been shared by the responsible people, particularly in the Ministry of the Environment, on forestry. The typical answer is that the forest is well because the quantities of timber to be cut do not exceed the growth of the forest, although, of course, it would be even better if spruce crops were planted on as many clearings as possible. This is a simplification where all forestry is reduced to three keywords: total wood growth, felling capacity and planting. Sometimes it's funny, but mostly it's not. It is certainly not sustainable forest management. Or look at the explanatory memorandum to the draft law amending the Forest Act on your desk, where the issue of felling age begins: 'The forest to be managed should be cut at the age when the revenue from the disposal of the timber is maximum as an average of the harvest circle per year. " Yes, this sentence reflects the desire to maximise the income of wood, but does not comply with the principle of sustainable forest management. The law also states that forest management means maximising all the benefits. In fact, what kind of forest should these social and cultural services, objectives and forest by-use fit into? Or even the conservation of species. The forest, which is strictly protected, is intended to protect the wildlife of the indigenous forest, but by default it is assumed that all other species living in the post-disturbation communities and subcessive forests will have to cope with the economic forest. For example, according to current logic, the entire life of the wounds should be found in an economic forest. Thus, the economic forest is not merely an optimization of wood. The following problem arises when the same few criteria are illustrated through professional terms. Unfortunately, in Estonian forest policy, the parallel use of terms is very common in different meanings and even manipulating them in public debate. Such terms include not only 'growth' but also 'protected forest','maturity age' and 'carbon binding'. Let me take another example of this beloved increase. The growth is likened to the volume of felling. There will be completely different results, depending on whether the protected forest (and which one just) is included, which method has been used, whether any tree species or different forest development classes are considered separately, as the previous speaker has already said. This is how it can happen that everyone seems to be right. For example, Keit Pentus, the then Minister for the Environment, who was responsible for preparing the current forestry development plan, correctly remembers that according to the plan the use of wood was not allowed to exceed the increase. Anyone can be sure of this by taking the development plan apart, because its opening statements really say so. When I, along with my colleagues, published an article on playing with this term in Postimees last year, the Ministry of the Environment published a statement of opposition and said that the development plan had no such purpose. This was said to be based on the cutting-down of the wood stock used in the calculations of the University of Life Sciences. They are also right, because such a calculation was indeed made. This increase in the development plan of 12 to 15 million cubic metres of forest material per year is not an increase in managed forest according to previous or new calculations. In one of the minutes of the Forestry Council since 2015, the Ministry of the Environment's representative states that this 12 to 15 million cubic metres is only the volume of innovation cut and thinning cut, with a volume of about 2 million cubic metres, should be added to it. To sum up this situation very briefly, it must be said that Estonia's forest policy is full of such half-truths and, unfortunately, there are also a series of direct lies with the signatures of very respected people. Ultimately, I believe that this leads to the loss of confidence in forestry arguments at all. Let's look at an explanatory memorandum to the Forest Act, which says they're looking for alternative cutting techniques for clear cuttings. This may be a very noble goal, but how do we know that it is not meant to be cut into a forest where clear cutting is not allowed now? Okay. Before answering the logical question to which such a one-sided and confused forestry situation is useful, I will present a one-percent line in order of decreasing order: 85, 50, 10 and 5. About 85% of Estonia's land would be covered by forest if there were no people here. We actually have 50% of the forest now and 50% of all species are forest species. 10% of the population is materially directly related to the forest, including forest owners and people working in the forest industry. 5% of GDP is provided by the forest and timber industries. Now we are in a situation where 50% of Estonia's land is treated depending on this 5% of GDP. Before assessing it, it would be interesting to know what the woodworkers really expect. If we read the raw material forecast for the timber industry until 2018, we will see that it is based on the stock of mature forest currently available in the economic forest, which is more than 150 million cubic metres. If it were to be cut down in, for example, ten years, we would really get 15 million cubic metres a year, add some thinning cutting and some amount of forest that reaches a mature age class, then we also understand why the timber industry is currently predicting the humping of the existing system and also creating new industries. In their eyes, it's just a supply of raw materials falling into their laps. The reasons are historical. I understand very well why the industry itself is not talking about the fact that the felling of the current mature forest, the same 150 million, would, apart from the current clearings at the same time, make 25% of the forest land managed by Estonia, or why, for example, the ideologies of the planned pulp mill do not express their plan in such a way that, in order to increase GDP by 1%, we essentially rent 15% of the entire land area of our country to one plant. One decision! I also understand why the industry itself does not remind you that what we consider to be a mature forest depends on the same decisions taken by the Riigikogu regarding the age of felling, which was once called maturity age. Is it possible for me to use extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U56	You have 26 seconds left.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U57	Am I entitled to extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U58	I'm afraid not. We have a confirmed agenda. But you can still highlight a few more important issues when you answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U59	Got it. Then I'll tell you, when I'm done, that's your job. The economy must function only within the limits and benefits of society, and society must, in turn, remain within the limits set by the natural environment. Forestry is not primarily an economic issue; it is equally an issue of the environment and of society and culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U60	Thanks to the waitress! You have a lot of questions. First, Külli's Hatter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U61	Thank you, good vice chairman. Thank you for your excellent speech to the waitress. I'll start at the end where you pointed out that our forestry is leaning towards the industrialists. How and if so, would RMK's activities be affected so that the management of the state forest is balanced and reasonable and does not serve the interests of one group or another?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U62	There are probably two answers to that question. One is that, if we sense in the short term that the state forest should balance all forestry and, for example, in private forests, there are reasons why we are not able to restrict the cutting, whether for ideological reasons or not, then I think that RMK should forget the profit expectations at all. We should then make the state forest operate as a public-forest-type management company, which may be zero with its cost-benefits, but where it cannot be expected to make a big profit in the state budget, because its functions would be quite different in that case. I think this is not the best system; society as a whole must bear this responsibility. So a longer-term plan should be for private forest management and private forest owners to be educated. There would also be a need for sufficient good advisors to RMK, even in the form of a Council that would balance different areas. I am afraid that, at the moment, RMK is perhaps simply lacking knowledge in the board and also in the board.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U63	The President's call is that if the report is 15 minutes, 15 minutes will be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U64	The manager's very friendly today, and he said he'd ask the vigilante.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U65	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We have all heard such a claim that there is a lie and a big lie, and then there are statistics. This is not only a wit, but a complex and really urgent problem. After all, the credibility of statistics depends to a large extent on the quality of our decisions and on where we want to go. My question is whether the current national forestry statistics are, in principle, sufficient to take decisions that are essential and necessary for sustainable forestry.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U67	Yes, there is experience in the world, but Finland is not a country that I would like to set the example of sustainable forest management. For example, if you listen to Canadian scientists, it turns out that it is the worst country in the world under the label of sustainable forestry in the first place. In summary, I think that's the answer. Ten years ago, I hoped that Estonia would be a country that could serve as an example. We had quite good natural conditions for this because of the Soviet legacy. In the 1990s, ownership reform took place, legislation was amended and the same law on sustainable development was adopted. It was a very good platform. Somewhere, something screwed up. This is why we are here and why Estonia is not the country that can be taken as an example today. What, then, would we have to take over from others? Sustainable forestry is by its very nature an agreement. We have a great deal to learn from Sweden, not Finland, about how to make agreements and which social processes and structures are necessary for this. If you look at integration, such as nature conservation as a whole, the landscape as a whole, I might go across the Atlantic at all and look at the experience of Costa Rica. If it is interested in how, at a political level, quite unsustainable forestry can be clearly turned into the path of sustainability that needs to be done in politics, then perhaps I would look towards Germany. And so on. These examples can be taken from many sides. If we are doing well now, perhaps in ten years' time we will again believe that Estonia is the country that others will take the example of.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U68	Absolutely not enough. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, it is a strictly protected forest system designed to protect indigenous forest life as a whole. As has been said, all other species should be able to cope elsewhere. We're about 15 years late. The plan to protect the forests and forests already comes from the first forestry development plan. This was not done, and the result is that a very large part of this forest has been cut down. What we're doing right now is just the best thing you can do about a really bad game. Of these future protected areas, I hope you can see for yourself soon, there will be a very large part of the clearings on which the forest is just beginning to grow and which will also be performing this biography function in decades' time and perhaps even further in the future. So it's really bad, but we're doing our best here. As has been said, if the rest of the forest landscape is to be managed more intensively, the species that are no longer able to survive and to which they should start to create their own protected areas will fall from there. It's a self-generating process, these two systems are connected.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U69	Krista Aru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you very much for a very substantive and clear presentation. You mentioned that several documents relating to forestry are full of half-truths. At the same time, forestry has been taught in Estonia for decades; it was also taught in Soviet Estonia; even forestry scientists were trained in the pre-war Republic of Estonia. Is the voice of scientists too weak? Is it insufficient? Has society not listened to them enough? Maybe this science itself isn't so mature and advanced because of the learning process. Where is the reason that this clear, versatile voice of scientists is so bad and low?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U71	Thank you. It's a bit psychologically difficult because I should probably start pointing a little finger at my colleagues. But if you start from the simplest point of view, you can say that the understanding of what forestry is, what forest is and what functions the forest performs is still very much developed. Whether it is the basic truth of climate policy that a large part of the carbon of the northern hemisphere or, let's say, the forest of temperate zones is not in the trees but in the soil, it is not very old. The fact that this stock is very large in the indigenous forest, and it is the fact that the fungus is rotting in the soil, that it is only a few years old and so on. In short, we are moving forward very quickly in the process of obtaining knowledge, including, among other things, the acquisition of knowledge on how to put social, ecological and economic arguments together at all. In terms of education, we are behind in Estonia. Clearly, the United States and Western Europe have been carriers in this area. I'm afraid we have a habit of getting a little stuffy in certain areas. On the one hand, it is very good that foresters are a community with a very tradition and strong roots. But I think that forestry science and forest education have sometimes done a disservice. Education under the name of forestry may not simply include new components. I think there's a reason to review curricula, even at universities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U72	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U73	Thank you. Good waitress! I have had a great deal to scratch in this whole ongoing forestry debate that it is on the side of the country that the focus has been on almost exclusively wood, the volume of felling, the cubic metres, but not the forest, which is much more than just a mere cutting opportunity. I know your position and I share that other values must also be taken into account given the value of the forest. I'm just asking you to share this with those who are watching this debate right now. How should the value of the forest be brought together and taking into account values other than the thickness meters to be cut?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U74	How it's technically supposed to work, I don't know how to predict it. I think that the very first step could be to gather together the various fields of scientists and knowledge that we have, bring it all together. It hasn't been done. The typical procedure has been that the industry needs raw materials, the industry wonders if there is any raw materials. This will be done by the Ministry and will, for example, ask the people involved in wood how much it will be and how much it will grow. This is not at all a process that other parties can access. Why is that, I don't know. But basically, if there's nothing else left, it's a little bit of a joke, let's make the woods three. Let us make sure that a third remains for the economy and a third for all members of society who make the forest as they wish, and the last third remains for ecologists to study and live in nature. Is that better? I don't think it's better, but if there's nothing else left, let's get started. Then the parties start to agree on how to exchange these values: you're gonna do some work in my forest, and I'm gonna get some of my values somewhere else. Let's get started on this. In any case, the conclusion is that these techniques and knowledge exist, people simply need to be brought together. It's not an easy process, but you have to start somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U75	Thank you very much for the waitress. I'm afraid we don't have time for any more questions. I would like to ask Artur Talvik, Member of the Group of the Estonian Free Party for a speech chair as the next rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U76	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, To begin with, I will quickly read the three proposals by Toomas Frey to complete the new Forest Act: '1. Chapter 1 "General provisions', § 1 "Provisional scope': "This Act regulates the direction of forestry, the organisation and management of forests in accordance with the law on sustainable development and the environment and provides for compensation for damage caused within the meaning of this Act and provides for liability for breach of this Act. 'Chapter 2 'Direction of forestry', § 6 'State tasks in forestry': 'The task of the state in forestry is to direct forestry and, to that end, to develop a forestry development plan and legislation; to ensure good forest status; to maintain forest resources and their critical stock and the stock to be used. 'Chapter 3 'Organisation of forests', § 11 'Organisation of forests': 'In order to carry out renovation, thinning and selective cutting, valid inventory data are required. The above shall not apply to immovable property where the forest area is less than two hectares, on immovable property belonging to a natural person less than 20 hectares. '' I think I'm part of the so-called forest huggers, I've been huging trees. Looking at me maybe it feels a little weird, but it doesn't mean that I'm personally against forest management. When we started to study more closely the forestry issue in the Free Party, we got into a very complicated world with a wide range of different opinions. Scientists and interest groups informed us of their views that often contradict each other. Finding the truth or the center has proved to be insanely difficult. However, I would stick to the'more emotional' aspect of this whole forest debate. If you look at the emotion that has come out of this debate, you can still understand public disapproval very well. It is rather such a patronage because it is precisely cultural or, by my side, an ecological part of the forest that has become a bang. Thus, our national identity, which is very deeply related to the forest, has been hit hard. I recall a meeting with the then president of Iceland a few years ago. We asked him if he believed in trolls, smurfs, and didn't know what other creatures were in their legends. He said he'd listened and watched what his grandmother said, and his grandmother believed in trolls. But then he gave an example of the Icelandic Road Administration. All of you imagine Iceland, there's a large and wide ceiling of land where you can make as straight paths as possible. But then, at the same time, somewhere in the open field, the road makes a small hook, and this hook has cost this highway department a bit of money. What does it say? It turns out that in the place where the road was hooked, there was a one - way - called stoned troll and this troll was to pass. Maybe this is an extreme example, but the Icelandics are suggesting that they have their own legends, that they have their 'value base' in place very well and that they defend it in every way. Now, for another example, I'm coming closer to the forest. Recently, I spoke to a friend of mine in Finland. He's the kind of guy from the modern world who makes ads and lives a pretty good life when you think about it financially. It came up with what he's gonna do with the rest of the money. Then he said he was buying up the woods. I said, "Oh, you're in the woods too. " He said, " No, I am buying up the forest so that the forest can grow there easily. ' It's a mentality that doesn't exist in Estonia as well. I know a couple of people who've done something like that. I also know people who own the forest, but I just don't do this forest, and that forest can just grow. Maybe the pieces that these owners have aren't very big, or they can't go there to chop for any other reason. So with regard to forest treatment, we have clearly reached a place where a certain change in mentality is needed. Asko Lõhmus also stopped on it very thoroughly. Thank you so much for that! But when you talk about the forest, you definitely have to talk about the owners. According to 2015 data, there were 112922 forest owners in Estonia, including 5752 legal entities and the rest were natural persons. So there's a lot of owners. Natural persons owned 688246 hectares and legal persons owned 377747 hectares. About half of these countries are less than two hectares, such small clumps and less than five hectares are about 65% of the parcels. Why am I saying this? I am saying this because, when I go back to the beginning, there are so many forest owners, there are also very different attitudes towards the forest. For years, the private forest federation has been working to harmonise the understanding of forests and forest management as a whole, to educate owners, etc. Nevertheless, there are also a large number of private forest owners who see only money figures in the forest. That's a shame. On the other hand, we must not insult those who truly have a heartfelt attitude toward the forest, as our ancestors did for centuries, i.e. they view the forest in such a way that the next generations will retain a valuable forest. RMK owns half of Estonia's forest in broad measure, i.e. it is a state forest. Looking at the current problems, it seems to me that the place where we're supposed to solve things is the state forest. The financial pressure on the state forest that we have to take more dividends out of RMK is wrong. Asko Lõhmus proposed here, I repeat: we should withdraw the obligation to make dividends from RMK. This would be the first step we could take to reduce RMK's great pressure, I don't know, to lower the tree's felling age or to make bigger clear cuttings. But I'm still talking about national pressure. The Ministry of the Environment is a cause for concern. Again, Asko Lõhmus stressed very well that the Ministry of the Environment could be the one who specifically invites the best specialists in different positions at one table and does not come out of that room until an agreement has been reached that we want in the first place. The current system of negotiations, where nature conservationists are made good and they say that, oh, we are making some more protected areas, and by this we manage much more brutally in another place, is not the balance we are looking for. It creates a strange confrontation, it creates strange rigid boundaries between a "very soft" approach and a very harsh or very economic approach. Our goal, however, is to look at the forest as a whole and to view it sensibly and sustainably as a whole. Let me give you another example of black and white thinking about the forest. We recently held a community conference where we proposed that horses should be used instead of harvesters in forest management in protected areas. A certain group of people wanted to ridicule us, asking if we wanted to come to town with a horse or what we were thinking. We said no, we don't want to come into town with a horse, but if we manage a horse in the woods, the forest floor will recover in one year, but if we manage with a harvester, the ground may be restored in seven, eight or even ten years. Horse management would also be a great opportunity to develop rural areas, because when animals are brought to land, people come to the country to see these animals. But now a couple of suggestions. One call is for private owners. If my Finnish friend buys up a forest just to let it grow, why can't we create a "wild forest" island that would be a separate standard of behaviour? As private owners, people would show how to view the forest, that it can be different, and they would treat the forest as a value, where peace of mind can be restored and where there is ecological diversity. In this way, our cultural identity would not be wounded. I'm sure I'd like to talk a little longer. This forestry debate has highlighted a number of painful issues which also concern the Riigikogu. The statistics on which we have to make decisions are, in fact, playing with statistics, turning it into what the law is intended to do. This is one example. Another example is that there will be discussions on certain topics each with his or her scientist. One of them says that this is the case, and the other says that no, things are quite the opposite. We need to find balance points in order to find a focal point among such opinions, let's say.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U77	Thank you, Artur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U78	Our appeal is similar to that of the previous speakers: we seek a balance point and stop such black and white fencing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U79	Whoa!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U80	Sorry, yeah!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U81	To be honest, I'm worried about a couple of things, they're related to legislative changes, or our house. I have a question several times about why this amendment to the Forest Act is now suddenly needed. Please note that in parallel the construction of a large wood refinery is ongoing. When you look at the bigger picture, you start to think that okay, when the law comes into force, this factory will never be finished, then... I'm not gonna press charges today, but looking at the picture, it looks like the refinery is being prepared for favourable conditions. It's making me nervous, it's not like it's right. This is also one of the reasons why the Free Party called for this amendment to be rejected. Let's talk about it. We're in no hurry. So there are dangers, let's put it this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U82	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Today we are discussing where there is balance in the forest. As we know, two laws are very important for forestry: forest law and sustainable development law. But you also introduced a development plan, i.e. a forestry development plan until 2020. The right thing is that these development plans often remain in the drawer and are not very important, but speaking of this development plan, it has to be said that felling volumes are very topical. We're gonna cut down the woods, maybe more than we should. My question is as follows. If the forest really grows at such a terrible rate in Estonia that we have to launch the axe very quickly and wave it very quickly to overcome the growth of the forest, why is there a need to continuously and continuously mitigate all the factors that restrict and hinder the cutting?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U84	I'd say the other way around. One method, one of the first steps towards balance, could be to draw the cutting volume down to about 10 million, for example, over the average of recent years. This balancing factor could be RMK. Everyone knows that cutting depends on the year, not much can be cut every year, for example, if the forest is very soft and cannot be accessed, but the second year may be a good year for cutting again, because the base is frozen and logging does not damage so much the bottom of the forest. If it is intended to bring the felling volume to less than 10 million cubic metres, in order not to put a crack in the head of private owners, RMK could be a balancing factor so that it would cut less or more than private owners. This could be one of the starting points. This is not the best method, but it is certainly one step in the search for balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U85	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U86	Good manager! Good waitress! At the beginning of the year, RMK resigned as Chairman of the Supervisory Board to Mati Poll, and some time later his son appeared before us with the idea of this great refinery. I don't think it's been more than a couple or three months. Do you think it raises questions or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U87	I think it raises a lot of questions. The new Chairman of the Supervisory Board of RMK has also raised questions in my opinion. We were talking about changing mentality here. It is, like, the idea that such a position should be held by someone who has been involved in forestry. But it tends to be that anyone who has been involved in forestry has been involved in forest management or even in the forestry industry. Therefore, the composition of all kinds of forest councils, including the composition of the RMK Council, is certainly out of balance. They are unfortunately inclined towards management. This does not mean that there should not be an industry representative sitting at that table; it should certainly be sitting there. But there should certainly be representatives of other perspectives, so that there is balance. I wouldn't be looking at the direct links between the former head of the RMK Council and the new refinery, but it doesn't look good, let's say that. If you start putting these blocks together, these parallel activities can make a very bad impression. On the other hand, the pressure of industry to cut is great, they keep the price down. We understand all of this. Forest owners earn less money from the sale of timber because of these large felling volumes. When you start looking at it, you realize that everything is not okay, these decision-making bodies are unbalanced in terms of representation and unfortunately tending towards industry.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U88	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U89	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Arthur! When we talk about Rail Baltic, we get to phosphoruside, and when we start talking about the refinery, we reach the clearing of the Estonian forest. Doesn't that sound a little schizophrenic? In this very Chamber, however, we often talk about innovation and research and development in cooperation with the private sector and universities. We want to have more added value in society so that raw materials are not exported, but we are getting to the same thing again. Shut the fuck up and open the tail.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U90	Yes, as a raw material, you can also export very fancy wooden constructions, they are made with very fangs of furniture or furniture and use innovative solutions. We have even been to factories using highly innovative solutions. But the pulp mill... In Finland, the production of cellulose is said to be the second most polluting industry. I don't know exactly what it is first, but I just heard today when it was said that cellulose production is second in Finland. Therefore, in terms of innovation, we should always ask what we are doing. When we make powerful wooden pieces, we build very innovative wooden houses, we make very high-quality wooden furniture, that is what we can continue to strive for. But if we just let our nature and our surroundings be damaged and so-called, we earn one point on GDP, then we should ask questions again.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U91	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U92	Thank you. Dear Arthur! There's a lot of pressure to cut down the forest. Once again, how should forest management be distributed between RMK and private forest owners to ensure rational forest management, aftergrowth and recovery?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U93	I think I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Arthur Talvik! The rapporteurs above already pointed out that the greatest responsibility lies in fact with the Riigikogu. So now I'm going to ask you a question as a member of the Riigikogu. In what respect should this whole issue being discussed today really be the law on sustainable development, the constitution, the amendments to the forest law and, ultimately, the law on the state budget? I mean both the laws that we have already adopted and the ones that we are still going to deal with. There's already some pretty big revenue in the budget from RMK. What should we do to make the Riigikogu take a more active role in these matters and to defend the principles that both Mr Talvik and earlier rapporteurs have emphasised?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U95	I have already mentioned once the proposal for the State Budget Act, or also the strategy that was recently discussed alongside the Sagadis Forestry Museum. There has been little talk about the forestry development plan, and this again shows that many development plans are being carried out, but it turns out as usual. Let's just say that unfortunately, the development plans do not, in a sense, reflect the social agreement; they remain one-sided. This is not just about the forestry development plan, but about many areas. Later, they often remain dusty on the shelf. Something is being taken out of it, as is currently being taken out of the forestry development plan, so that the felling volume can be up to 15 million cubic metres per year, and this argument will be debated. But once again: if we are looking for a balance in forestry, it is not just a question of cutting volume or of these figures. Balance is something much wider that we must stand for together. I'd love to watch it. This could be one process that we could change together. The discussion of the future forestry development plan could take place on a whole different basis. One basis could be that there is negotiations at the table, not formal inclusion, and as a result we can reach a broad social agreement that is not inclined towards industrial pressure or financial support.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U96	So I'm going to say again that I don't think this is the most ingenious solution. But the key to walking into the forest is that we have said it many times in the hands of the Riigikogu and the decision-makers. Half of Estonia's forest is a state forest and it should be a milestone in the way sustainable development takes place. If we find that the volume of felling is currently too high, it is precisely in the state forest that the felling volume could be reduced in order to move the culture of attitudes towards forests based on sustainable development forward as a next step, and to deepen it also among private forest owners. This could be the path that had to go on right now. Unfortunately, the signs of the law that we have in the debate also point to the fact that we do not understand exactly where this sustainable development is in the state forest either.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U97	Thank you, Artur Talvik! I'm opening negotiations. I expect everyone to remember: the initiators wanted to get the word first for the factions. I believe that whoever is first in the group is the spokesperson of the group. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U98	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm about to ask you if there's any extra time or if there's only five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U99	It will.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U100	You can write down three minutes of extra time immediately.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U101	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U102	As a person who has received environmental education, I am pleased that we are discussing these forest and environmental issues not only here in the Riigikogu, but also in society as a whole. I am pleased that Asko Lõhmus is probably the most demanding environmental scientist in Estonia today, who has been well interrogated by all political groups, various organisations and committees. I am sincerely pleased about that. It seems to me that, in the past, the law on forests had been entrusted in many ways, and I do not mean it in a bad way, rather to people who had received forest education. Often, Soviet forest education was largely based on how the forest could be cut down faster, produced from it and paid for it. Consider a similar example that has been mentioned here: oil shale mining was regarded as an excellent result when the number of tons was increased. The same principle was applied in forestry. It is now good to see that in recent years the ecology side has grown more and more in this process. The fact that over a thousand Estonian people came to the street because of forest issues on one working day shows that the Estonian people care about this topic. The situation we have reached has not arisen overnight. I would argue that this is the result of years of unfinished work. Asko Lõhmus also once left the forestry council, of which I have the honour of being a member, without answering the question of why 27000 hectares of land and salumes were not previously protected. I hope that this question can be answered, for example, by the representative of the Reform Party in his speech. In fact, this boat has been leaking since 2004. If we look at legislation, for example, that in 2013 the weighted average of clear cutting started to apply, we will see that cutting the forest has become more liberal and easier on the one hand, which could be the right way to go in the same direction. But there is a law coming to mind from another area, which we in the Riigikogu also believed that the people of Estonia are very aware and do not hurt if one person can take a glass of wine in one corner of the park, or drink alcohol. This was because a few tar dropes in this honey pot realized that if you can drink alcohol in a reasonable amount in a public place and not harmed others, it means you can go in the middle of the Town Hall Square and drink a bottle of vodka. In Estonian society, we still need to establish a path by law. We will also look at this comparison between Finland and Estonia. We have cultural differences. Let us look at the forest museums of Finland and Estonia as an example. The Finnish Forest Museum has exhibits mainly on forest cutting techniques, i.e. how the forest can be managed as well as possible. I recommend, however, an Estonian forest museum where, I believe, everyone has been and everyone knows about the exhibition. There is a greater emphasis on nature and the environment rather than on exactly how the forest has been cut down and cut down over the centuries. The coalition agreement also says 'bad and red' that we will not cut more than the forest grows. This is one change that must certainly also be introduced into the new law. There is always a question of how to ensure this. It is good to say that we are not cutting more forests in Estonia than there is growing more. But what is the mechanism? Yeah, it's easy to say we're going to redefine the development plan. Unfortunately, I have to say that if, as we know, 12 million cubic metres are cut, but we see 9 million in the development plan right here in the Riigikogu, and if you ask how this development plan can be implemented so that it can really be met, then the answer is to change the forest law, or to re-examine the felling age and the size of the lanks. We have, in some ways, such an egg and chicken question in this Chamber, i.e. everything must be looked at in its entirety, we cannot say in the procedure of one document that we will leave it in the air and give an answer in the following document. These solutions must also be included in the Forest Act. Therefore, one very specific proposal is that in the Forest Act we give the Government of the Republic the right to restrict the surface area of the woodland to ensure the natural balance of the forest if there are reasonable grounds to assume that the volume of felling may exceed the increase in the forest used. We need to give the Government of the Republic a real instrument in which we can respond to the number we agree in society on how much forest we take down in Estonia. It shouldn't just stay in the air. I also need to make one correction in RMK's key so that there is no misconception in this hall, as if the whole problem would only be solved if RMK completely stopped logging or, as Asko Lõhmus said, it should be made into a social institution that should not be paid for. I say, without emotions, that if 12 million cubic metres are cut in Estonia each year, 8 million of this will be cut by private owners and 4 million will be cut by RMK. According to RMK's investment plan, on the basis of which they build forest roads, dry forests and also build famous bonfire sites and forest trails, the maintenance of which they carry, the "zero point" is 2.7 million cubic metres in size. Perhaps this notion that if we want sustainable forest management, it can only be done on the account of RMK... Yes, he can. But then we have to start paying for these campfire sites and hiking trails, which is one way to go. It needs to be understood that if we want to manage the forest sustainably, this will require a social agreement. All of these 110000 private owners will have to come along. Of course, RMK should be a pioneer, and I believe he is also a pioneer here. But this cannot be done unilaterally and it must be said that all sustainable forest management must remain solely on the side of the state forest. If we wish to enjoy Estonia's forest always, even at any meeting with foreign guests, we stress that more than 50% of Estonia's territory is forest, then this requires a social agreement, which must be accompanied by both private owners and representatives of RMK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U103	That's a good question. In fact, if we have volunteer relief officers and rescuers, why can't we have volunteer forest ecologists or what to call them, Rangers, if we use such a nice foreign word, or volunteer forest rangers (to bring this forest ranger concept back in again). This does not mean that some guys go into the woods with bats and try to scare away harvesters from there, but they could be people who do unofficial work and go see if the owner of the forest who does the logging really does it on a sustainable basis. They could also be part of a circle of scientists who are beginning to look for a balance in society. Voluntary forest rangers could indeed form a new voluntary movement. Then standing up for the forest would not be limited to a rhetorical dispute on Facebook pages or newspaper columns, but would be a real action to keep the forest in balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U104	... then the members of the Riigikogu asked questions. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U105	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U106	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! You're also the Chairman of the Corruption Commission. Given the high efficiency of the forestry sector, you have certainly assessed the potential risk of corruption in this area. What is your view of this policy area, whether or not there is a high risk of corruption?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U107	Thank you. It's not enough for the whole. There are some things, in particular, for obvious reasons, that concern the state of the wood resource, for which our data is quite good. However, if we start to classify these same growth and felling volumes by species or age classes, it turns out that the statistical method of sampling that the country currently uses as the main statistics means that the number of trial areas is getting smaller and smaller, as the smaller group we look at. So for more specific issues, it is no longer sufficient, and if we come from the assessment of wood resources to other areas of life, it is almost nonexistent. I can give you an example, this is a hybrid example. Everyone who goes to the forest knows which tree species is currently the biggest problem in Estonia. Much has been said about the tree, but this tree species is actually an island, because Estonia has a quite devastating disease such as island death. It has sometimes killed the vast majority of islanders. I've been to the island, where all the remaining islands, when you look at the atzer description, were really legging. This island death should somehow be reflected in national statistics, as the island is still growing in many areas of Estonia. But if you look at the bill, you will first see that in recent official reports, the island cell has been left blank at all, and if you look at the stock estimates of living trees on the island in 2007, and 2015, for example, you will see that they are just as large, with a very high error estimate. I am saying that such ecologically important processes do not come out of nowhere. What are we talking about, then, about some species of life that are not even of economic interest? These statistics are nonexistent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U108	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I will first give you the opportunity to mediate the part that has not been dealt with because of the time remaining, but I will also raise one question. This concerns compliance with the Sustainable Development Act and § 5 of the Constitution. I myself, inspired by Mr Frey, have taken note of the executive edition of the Constitution. It's a very useful reading about it. You're not the Chancellor of Justice, but you're a specialist in the field. Is it possible to say which cutting volumes and age are already going to put the Constitution at risk? Does the current forestry development plan, which provides for up to 15 million cubic metres per year, and changes to the Forest Act endanger § 5 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U110	Thank you! This is a very complex issue, in substance. I would have liked to talk a little bit more about how such a social agreement, the combination of different areas, should take place. But perhaps it really is not the right place in the Chamber of Riigikogu, it is actually a matter of technical negotiation. But someone should initiate these technical negotiations, in my opinion it is the responsibility of the State and, above all, of the Ministry of the Environment. We would very much need one such authority collection. Mr Frey referred to the 1934 law, which was understood at that time. We still don't have it. The way in which the effects of felling volumes should be interpreted is, in fact, a question of expert judgment. The Constitution only gives us a direction to look towards. I think that the law on sustainable development must have some sort of implementation mechanism for forestry. So far, we have thought that this implementation mechanism is a forestry development plan, that is the process in which the parties come together and balance the main objectives. Why it hasn't happened like this, you can answer that much better than I can. The current Minister for the Environment has promised, at least, that the new forestry development plan will be made on a completely new basis, whatever it is. But I'm afraid experts and society have reason to be suspicious. So, in summarizing, I think that, along with lawyers and experts, the same route must be renegotiated from the constitution to the law on sustainable development, from the law on sustainable development to the law on forests, etc. That is why it is kind of absurd to process lower-level laws before we have at all understood what we want. Still, society has to say what we want.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U111	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your speech, you mentioned that the current virvarr devalues the belief in what is happening in this sector. When I look at the faces of some of my colleagues here, I understand this amazement. We could make decisions based on what some experts or others say. You also referred to the fact that we have not taken into account certain global risks in our prospective forest management, which should save this potential margin even more. Did I understand this correctly, and what would be the solution here, so that the decision-makers would understand better what they are deciding about?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U113	Thank you! You understood perfectly well. I think it is important to start by asking the right question first and then answering it with the figures that everyone has accepted. Personally, for example, I have tried to make it very clear to myself how this statistical forest inspection is going to take place in Estonia, to what extent the test points will be chosen, who will be present, what papers they have with them, etc. Although this is not my task directly, it is precisely to restore confidence that what is being done will result in figures that we can use. I think that what you may need is some kind of consensus between a number of scientists who say yes, these data are reliable, they can be used. These data, which you have often used, have unfortunately been based on calculations from the narrow circle, which have also passed some kind of political or administrative filter, from which, for reasons that I do not understand, often come up with a statement that is no longer true, whether the term has been reversed or if something has been forgotten in some kind of calculation. I bring the economic forest, for example. The economic forest we are talking about actually covers the restricted zone for all national statistics. It is understandable for this reason that this forest is indeed managed, except that there are additional restrictions and, for example, the use of the wood stock there cannot logically be planned to the same extent as in the rest of the economic forest. If this nuance is removed, it will change the estimates by 15 to 20%. I understand your embarrassment. You cannot be familiar with all the details, and you must somehow integrate the criticism of this scientist. My best recommendation is that the state should make a collection of scientists with experts from different fields and with sufficient authority to be trusted by all parties. How do you do that? Let's talk!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U114	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Asko Lõhmus! There's a pretty cliché saying that everything's connected to everything. You initially gave a very interesting example of the Amazon rainforest and talked about the potential possibility that our phosphorus might be needed there in the future. The new plant is also claimed to account for Latvian timber. Can you tell us whether in our neighbouring countries, I mean Finland and Latvia, perhaps farther away Norway or Sweden, there is some good knowledge of forestry that we would do well to learn about? The question got a little complicated. Is there any kind of knowledge we haven't used yet? I am thinking precisely of Norway, Finland, Sweden and Latvia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U116	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U117	Good manager! Good waitress! If the last waitress knew the tree better than anyone, you know very well the problems of biodiversity in the woods. Is that enough compensation if we fire a hatchet in young spruce trees, but as a result, we can secure the salumes, and then the biota will be preserved in this small part?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U118	Honourable President! Respectable waitress, good colleague! I was haunted by your report against the horse and the harvester. So how do we find a balance between them? What are we supposed to do with these goddamn harvesters? But seriously, how do you do smartly with the forest subsoil? Not everyone has horses. What's the other solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U119	The issue of harvesters should be addressed separately. I'm not a machine-breaker who says we're gonna stop these harvesters and stop this shit. But if the lease of one harvester and one transporter is about EUR 10,000 per month, it means that the owners of the harvesters are very pressured to keep them running all the time. The other part is that RMK, which also does public procurement, is pushing down the price of procurement very much. The very low price again puts pressure on harvesters' owners to work with them so-called brutally, and therefore they work around the clock, trying to get as much benefit from one place as possible, etc. I'm sure that's one thing you should look at. In Sweden, for example, it is forbidden, as far as I know, to work with harvesters at night. It is not prohibited for reasons of noise or protection of animal welfare, but because it is not intended to allow people to work at night. That's one way. The introduction of horses to this topic seems to be an anachronism in a sense, but at the same conference that we organised, a guest from Sweden was also present in Asko Lõhmus, who spoke very well about how forest management with horses takes place in Sweden and how local authorities pay for it, because they are interested that their forest would be very well managed. There are other systems that make sure that these horses have work at other times, not just during forest making.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U120	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U121	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Arthur! Scandinavian countries, especially Sweden, have been given an example of the fact that there is quite liberal forest management, with a 'block' being placed on all kinds of restrictions. One reason is that civil activists have developed control mechanisms, environmental agencies that participate in debates and pay attention to issues. You're a civil activist, too. If philosophed, what should we do in Estonia to create healthy communication and debate between activists, the Ministry and RMK, which would also give us the opportunity to write less laws, but to be aware of the lovers of nature?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U122	But since the report was so good...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U123	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Good Arthur! I saw that Toomas Frey gave the chair a page of suggestions, and you took the paper. Can you introduce these proposals to us with a loud voice now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U125	It seems that the People's Council did not hear this, but there are three proposals to amend the Forest Act, and I have already read them. They are now in the verbatim and they are meaningful. Thank you to Toomas Freyle for these proposals. Unfortunately, they are probably too late as amendments to the draft. But we hope to bring the thinking that is in these proposals into the debate on the amendment of the Forest Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U126	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U127	Jaanus Karilaid on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U128	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll ask for more time first, if possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U129	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U130	First, a couple of emotional labels before I go to the main report. In 2011, Estonia was very actively sought out. This was what politicians were looking for, and nature's friends were looking for. There was a survey and a ranking was drawn from it. Nature cameras took the first place in the search for the Estonian thing. Almost 20,000 people voted for them. The editor and spiritual father of the portal Looduskalender claimed that the fact that nature cameras received so many votes is a service to viewers. He said they liked being in that environment and being part of the energy flow. The 6th place in the search for the Estonian thing was received by the votes. Ahto Kaasik, the voice of the giant and the defender of the giant, claimed that it is a sign that shrines are valued in Estonia. He said that it would probably be understood that the giant was a place where our spiritual roots were situated and growing. The forest is also needed for our children. Children's Literature researcher Triin Lees has written that there are about 50 works in Estonian children's literature with the word 'forest' in its title. The emergence of forest books was noticeable in the early 1940s and 2000. The forest has also been the protector of our people during the wars, a refuge for witches and folk doctors, the lungs of our climate. We are the border country of the European forest zone. The forest share also determines whether Estonia belongs to the Nordic countries or to Eastern Europe. The forest has three main dimensions: ecological and environmental, tourist and business, national soul and psychological. They were broader and emotional, but substantial markings. State assets are managed for public purposes (Article 10 of the State Assets Act). The Ministry has granted state property management to authorised bodies ( § 8 of the State Property Act). Forest related has been awarded to RMK as an authorised body, but RMK is not the manager of state assets but represents the state in the performance of its tasks. RMK has 16 activities, including forest cultivation, landscape conservation, heritage and conservation of protected natural objects (Article 9 of the RMK Statute). Surprisingly, the preservation of the living environment is not among the functions of RMK. State forest land must represent at least 20% of the land area (Section 5 of the Forest Act). The Forest Act aims to ensure the conservation and sustainable management of forests as an ecosystem. The forest ecosystem consists of forest land and its growing vegetation and fauna. Forest land is a plot of land with an area of at least 0,1 ha, on which wood plants grow at least 1,3 metres in height and at least 30% in number of tree crowns. These descriptions are not based on the scientific concept of the ecosystem, including the forest ecosystem, or are actually wrong. Unfortunately, this inaccuracy gives opportunities to speculate and misinterpret the role of forest as an important element of nature, for example, it can be understood that the forest is monofunctional and that, apart from timber, or money, there is nothing else to gain from it. This, in turn, gives reasons for minimizing felling age, because the sooner raw income is received, the faster the return will be. On this basis, a number of types of increases are speculated, which Professor Frey wrote beautifully on 3 February 2017 in the newspaper of the country and turned things from head to head: 'The increase in the continuous increase in the surface is due to the breakdown of the age structure caused by excessive cuttings, not to the acceleration of growth. Scatter is caused not by ignorance, but by the love of money. ' Although the Forest Act does not define forest as state property, it cannot be broken down by the law on sustainable development, it has been adopted in 1995 and the procedures resulting from it. If you save something, you should know how much it is, maybe evaluate the supply and evaluate the critical supply you cannot review. You can't find it in the law of the forest. What does sustainable and sustainable forestry mean? Obviously, it is reasonable to believe that an internationally agreed explanation is correct. In this case, it is necessary to know the forest stock and to be able to assess the economic, social and environmental importance of forestry. The forest protection function is diverse. Therefore, it would be reasonable to supplement the Nature Conservation Act by equating forests into a landscape protected area and providing for a conservation code instead of a forest management plan and a management plan based thereon, and an environmental impact assessment should be required in the case of fellings. The protection of forests in the immediate vicinity of settlements and cities deserves special attention, as development and urban sprawl do not support the conservation function of forests or the preservation of biodiversity. Forest management doesn't just mean cutting. Forest ecosystems offer benefits that cannot be obtained elsewhere. The logging directly serves the benefit of the convention. It is not so easy to assess the value of a forest that supports the social environment: it is emotional, social, educational and ultimately world-viewed. How much does life support a worldview cost? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U131	On behalf of the Group of the Andres Metsoja Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U132	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good ambassadors! The whole process of amending the Forest Act has somehow given me the impression that I'm a villain. I don't know if it's because I'm a member of the government coalition or because I'm a forest owner, but in any case, it's like a sign that something's really, really wrong. At the same time, I dare say that I have, in a sense, grown up with the forest, not in my name, but in my life I have enjoyed the forest, and the forest is actually very clearly my lightning rod. That's why I move in the woods very often, keep my eyes open and see what's going on there. Obviously, no country can grow faster than its own people. In forest policy and looking at the overall situation of the forest, we need to face the truth of where we come from and where we want to go. The time of privatisation and the return of lands was such a time when everyone could feel what it was like to be the owner. Being an owner at that time usually meant earning some kind of income. From there we arrived at this time when Estonia joined the European Union and we made a number of commitments to protect nature, to protect it bureaucratically, perhaps even more bureaucraticly than ever. From that moment on, the grudge has begun to gather into the hearts of the forest owners, quite secretly, because the protection and preservation of nature has actually been, I think, the heart of every Estonian. Otherwise, we would not be living in a country like Estonia, such a natural community and wealth. However, in this process we took steps to create protected and managed areas, explaining very clearly to the public that it is necessary to manage the forest, just as it has been done in history, but the forest also needs to be protected. And we need to protect more than ever. That is not the end of the story. When meeting forest owners, perhaps industrialists, it turns out that people still feel that protecting nature is often bureaucratic, not human, because it is often done with sanctions that are not always appropriate, and negotiations do not lead to results, but rather cause problems. Many forest owners fear, valuing their property, that if this spruce, perhaps a pine or a cover, has become 80 years old, then at some point a message will appear on the computer that it will no longer be possible to make a felling at a certain location of this property, because a species has been discovered there, and for some time the felling activity will be stopped there, and it is not known when this process will end or how anyone will compensate for it. This is, in my opinion, one of the main concerns of Estonian society. We cannot look at forest management apart from nature conservation. In my opinion, we have tried very hard to work in this Chamber so that protecting nature is not a matter for the individual, or owner, but a matter for society as a whole. However, I do not think that this problem has been resolved; rather, in the context of the issue of the Forest Act, it is even being amplified. RMK, the State Forest Management Centre, of which I am a member, has also been discussed here today. Perhaps I really do not have such competence as the people who have learned forestry, because I have an economic background, but I am very happy to be part of this Council. It widens the world view of a member of the Riigikogu a great deal and provides knowledge, in a sense also skills, how to behave in this field and how to try to define yourself and state policy. I don't believe it, I want to clear it up, that RMK's management or board is incompetent or not aware of what to do. The management of RMK will implement the political guidance that has come from this hall: to earn dividend income in order to offer certain benefits to society. Indeed, if we want to change the trend in the country, so that the forest is not only a place where dividend income can be earned, but we would realise that there are also added values, then we should probably all look at each other and say whether this 30 million dividend income is the right or the wrong amount. Will the 30 million dividend income next year be the right or the wrong amount? Is 10 million dividend income the right or wrong amount for the year after that? These are the expectations that RMK has set aside, apart from the fact that it needs to introduce nature and the public to a clear awareness of what is happening and why. I'm sure the owners are overstigmatized. Forest owners have been stigmatised, in particular, as if the whole forestry problem had been caused by them. This isn't right. I started with privatisation and I want to end with the balance of the Estonian forest being in the heads of people, in the heads of owners. This development, which has taken place, has been consistent. Owners have become largely those who see value in the forest. I dare to acknowledge all forest owners, because when I move in the forest, I see how much is actually put back in the forest. The forest needs to be put back more and more, because it is our wealth and, I think, one of the greatest values for future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U133	Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U134	President-in-Office of the Council. Good ambassadors! I'm also a villain because I own a forest, I have 20 hectares. But unlike Artur Talvik, I'm not a tree hugger. I will not cut my forest either, because, first of all, it is not ripe yet and, secondly, I have no economic need to cut it. I think it's a natural environment where I sometimes go and where it's nice to see what's going on there. I view this as a short period of our natural environment, which we are so accustomed to in Estonia, that I do not really know how to assess it adequately. I want to thank today's waitresses, who have very balancedly drawn attention to all the aspects relating to forest and forest management. I don't know what to say to them directly, because what I'm going to say to the smartest people in this area. But I would like to stress that I am pleased that this issue has come under discussion in Estonian society. As a historian, I always look for parallels, examples that things can go wrong. Often things have gone wrong because they want to gain a great deal, but instead, they have ultimately been left in the wild. I will give a very dramatic example from a distant place called the People's Republic of China, where Chairman Mao started a big leap in the early 1950s. This was to lead China to the most advanced countries in the world, and the measure was that each community and household had to produce a certain amount of steel. For this purpose, all villages built steel melting furnaces. But, as we know, in order to melt steel, heat is needed, and because heating is needed to achieve heat, in those areas where there was a lot of forest and could be heated with trees, the forest was cut off massively. Steel was made, mostly very poor-quality steel. But the forest was cut down, and by now China has not overcome this devastation and the massive violent transformation of the environment. One of the things I know best about it is what I heard when I first went to China. Then it was May, and the Chinese said that if it was a very beautiful time anywhere else in the world, by the way, the Mongols said the same thing, then it was a time of dust storms. The forest was cut down, desertification expanded, and the forest could no longer be detained from the north, the dust and sand clouds passing down the Mongolian deserts. That's how they started to end up in Central China and get there until today. This is a direct consequence of cutting down the forest. So environmental and economic issues are much more complex than often assessed. If there are some pulp mills coming in and promising to increase 1% of GDP, scientists will have to estimate the effect of 1%, for example, 10, 20 or 50, but maybe also in a 100-year perspective. It is quite clear that industrialists do not tend to worry about such matters. The common citizen doesn't know what to say about it either. What can I say? Well, it's gonna take like this, and so many million cubic metres, it's not gonna tell me anything, whether it's gonna take five or six million. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U135	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U136	It doesn't tell me anything, but scientists can model, they can make assessments, and these assessments need to be taken into account when making an integrated assessment. This is what we are actually doing to some extent in this Chamber right now. We create a discussion in society so that things don't look at just one side. You can't just look at things from the area where the frogs get across the road or just from this area how many euros we make on a cubic metre. Things need to be looked at in a way, perhaps with a certain emotional colour, so that the hauling of cubic meters does not crush thousands of frogs and thousands of frogs deserve our nature. The problems with the forest go back decades. I can speak from my very narrow experience. I am the owner of an object under the protection of heritage, and when I needed beams of 40 × 40 cm in length about 15 years ago, it was awfully difficult to get them. They said there's no such log. I was looking for a matchfire, and I finally found a farmer who said, well, he doesn't want to take down those trees in his woods, but he's making me these logs. This farmer made me these logs, I needed 12 logs, and he gave me those 12 logs. But this shows that it is not only the growth of cubic metres and the number of cubic metres to be cut that matter. The length of logs, the length of logs and the management models are important, the length of wages that go to the sawmill, the width of the table from there, etc. I needed to, too, I can't remember exactly 30 centimeters wide floorboard or something. There were some difficulties in looking for it, too, because not every mill does. So there are also practical questions, as is said in Russian, s odnoi storonõ i s drugoi storonõ, on the one hand and on the other. The forest is not just a log, and the forest is not just a place to pick berries. The forest is Estonia, we could even say so. I'm poetically finishing up with Hando Runnel's words because it's also a strip for our forest. He says in one of his immortality poems: "The forest is high, the forest is evil, in the forest many men died during the war, after the war, some still remember it. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U137	On behalf of the Kalle Palling Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U138	Mr President, good guests, ladies and gentlemen. The forest is home. So what brought us here today? Is it fear for the future of the forest that, alongside intensive cutting of the state forest, will the natural value of the forest be taken into account? The government and rulers are still discussing the acquisition of the highest value of the cubic metres, cutting and felled logs centrally, without taking into account the value of the forest for the whole living environment. The same environment cannot stand up for itself, but we can stand up for it here in the Riigikogu. I am just saying that the forest has never been cut so intensively in Estonia, that so much dividends have never been taken out of RMK, and that is why pressure has been put on our forest. Perhaps it would be wise for the rulers to consider whether it is necessary to drive so many axes and powerful chainsaws into our forest to cover their populist election promises. But what I'm saying here doesn't have to mean you can't run a forest at all. On the contrary, you have to manage it, but you have to manage it wisely. On the initiative of industrialists, we are talking about this also in this hall, it has sounded several times today, whether to establish a new production company in Estonia, which could take advantage of a third of Estonia's timber resources. It would use, as Asko Lõhmus mentioned earlier, 15% of Estonia's surface area if this timber were to come from Estonia only, although we know that imported timber has also been taken into account. At the same time, this venture could add a percentage or a little more to our GDP. However, given the life expectancy of the forest and the time it matures, the income earned each year per unit remains extremely modest. Perhaps we should focus on other things in order to achieve this percentage of added value. Estonia is quite unique due to its geographical location and very valuable nature. It has already come out of the mouth of scientists here, and I do not think it makes any sense for us to go to any country to copy. We would better take the best experiences of the forest, as well as the worst experiences, so that mistakes are not repeated over these countries and we think about the form in which we can best manage our forest in the future. Perhaps it would be reasonable to get this percentage of GDP from tourism at all, because there is no clean forest, swamps, bogs and air in many countries anymore, as we have it all. It seems to me that forestry has become a catalyst in the social debate to discuss more fundamental issues about the sustainability of society and the functioning of agreements between us if there are issues that we can solve under forest law. Perhaps the problem here is also the lack of social vision or the conflict between visions in different social groups (technocratic vision versus ecological village, globalisation versus communities). The overall and common goal brings together people from very different backgrounds. As a society, do we have a greater goal or have we reached a period of enjoying well-being where we hope that life will get better, but in fact it is already pretty good and not too much effort? From a human point of view, the forest is a renewable natural resource. At the same time, the forest is not just a place where we grow wood. The real value is a rich and pleasant forest. Raising a forest does not mean planting trees on a field. The forest is an ecological habitat, and trees planted on a field are trees planted on a field. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U139	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U140	Our common vision is sustainable forest management. The Estonian forest must be handled with good authority. Are we chopping a little or a lot? The methodology for calculating forest growth must be the answer here. The forest is not a short-term business project, but a transferable value for generations. The greater goal of the future is the movement of the Estonian timber sector into more profitable parts of the value chain. The forest can do much cooler things than export logs. The forest we're taking down should be worth as much as possible to get the most out of it. I listened here before Andres Metsoja. I really think that the government has failed in discussions about the future of the Estonian forest. This is already because, although the pending Forest Act mainly deals with state forests, there is a conflict in society between forest owners and forest conservationists. I think that private forest owners have been harmed because this debate mainly concerns the state forest. Now, I want to bring a metaphor I've memorized, talking to Asko Lõhmus, who stepped up here today. In the case of forestry, it is often said that the owner knows what he is doing with his forest, and he has the right to do what he wants. Asko uses a good metaphor to explain his beliefs. He brings an example of a dog. If you take a dog, you're his owner, but that doesn't mean you can do anything with that dog. There are rules that are written down (also about keeping a pet), and there are rules that are not written down. It's exactly the same with the forest. The social debate must provide the answers to the direction in which we are going. Is it in the direction that we take a fifth of Estonia's land and a third of Estonia's forest assets into use for the long term in the interests of one production company, or are we going to have these social discussions and see where we are going with our forestry? Are we moving towards cutting the volume of logging, managing the forest smarter and developing natural tourism, or are we doing something else? It is a pity that we reach these debates here in the Riigikogu whenever things are already in the decision-making process. This is also the case with the same forest law. Perhaps it would be wiser to take time off, discuss a little bit, and think about where we are going with our forest policy when dealing with the draft forest law. There are over one million forest owners in Estonia, because our state forest is not the property of the government, it is the property of every person. There are also private forest owners. The forest is the home of the Estonian people and sustainable forest management is a very specific matter. So let us incorporate forest policy on this basis! (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to sustainably formulate forest policy in order to better set your future goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U141	On behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U142	Thank you, on behalf of the Free Party Group, for Toomas Freyle and Asko Lõhmus. Thank you to all the representatives of the political groups who have taken part in this debate. The mood for this debate is healing. Thank you all. The objective of the Free Party Group is not to offer black and white solutions to the forestry issue, because that is not possible. Our aim is to strike a balance between intensive management with huge constraints. I myself grew up in a herd of dairy cows, actually on a farm where there was a herd of dairy cows, but it can indeed be said that in a herd of dairy cows, because it was also quailed among the herd. If at some point the farm didn't bring in enough, we always had a place to go for help. This place was a forest. It was managed in such a way that there was no clear cutting, but every time the tree was cut down, at least in my father's heart the question was asked whether his children and their children could also preserve the beauty of this forest and, for example, build their new home from the log of their forest. When my sisters and I were little, we sat in the woods in a carbox and set up trees to go to the Tartu market to sell firewood. These memories keep my family together. Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia actually states this message in a specific and holistic way: "Estonia's natural resources and natural resources are national wealth, which must be used in a sustainable way. " It says everything. We've been talking about the problems with RMK and the Ministry of the Environment. In my opinion, the problem is that in every county, every nature conservation area, officials and ordinary people interact very differently, these practices are so different. When we talk to private forest owners about the subject, it becomes clear that they too have conflicting ideas, because they are treated differently. Asko Lõhmus pointed out that we lack involvement, dialogue and the opportunity to have a say, which is what causes people to be defiant and misunderstanding. I have spoken several times about the need to amend the Nature Conservation Act, in the sense of § 20. I see in the country disappointment that people are not treated equally or equally. It seems that if they do, the state forest will be taken down, and if they don't, it will not be taken down at all, and it will fall apart and rot. At the same time, the state is expected to be an indicator of a sound forest management model in order to give the private forest owner the courage to do the same. When I read 'Estonian Forest Development Plan until 2020', I was very touched by the imaginary tone between the lines, which depreciated the private forest owner, giving the impression that the private forest owner is uneducated and unable to take care of his forest. On the contrary, the private forest owner thinks the most about it (that is, my father does so), which remains of this forest for children and their children. The faction of the free party has made it very clear, both with the speech by Artur and with the draft decision submitted today, that RMK's objective cannot and cannot be to earn revenue from the state budget. On the basis of several tax changes in the current government, we can see that there are finely tens of millions of savings being made by scraping together various indirect taxes. This is not a forward-looking or holistic attitude; it is not what an Estonian person needs. We have come to the conclusion that the volume of felling could remain at 10 million cubic metres and that, in calculating this volume, private forests should be preferred and then we could think about how much more it would be reasonable to cut in the state forest. We have reached this figure in terms of the average felling volume for the last four years. What am I waiting for? Actually, I'm looking forward to this hall and the contribution of the Ministry of the Environment. Unfortunately, the whole area is concentrated under only one ministry, the Ministry of the Environment. The National Audit Office has tried to point out bottlenecks and recommendations in several and several reports. But the Ministry's answers to the recommendations have again been somehow top-down, which is what you know. This attitude, which you know, and what you do open your mouth at all, we, as the authors of the subject, feel very often. Such an attitude must be taboo, such a top-down attitude must be taboo! In society, we need to find methods for people to concentrate and give content to the debate, which is the right amount of cutting, and which are methods for us, for example, to be able to produce as much as we need to plant. For example, the plantations under RMK do not allow private forest owners to get their plants from there. Scandinavia is an example here of finding balanced and understanding citizens who, through a common movement, would add new value to the forest. Thank you all. I hope that, in the next forestry discussions, we will really think and discuss it nine times before we start cutting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U143	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U144	Ladies and gentlemen, who are still in the Chamber! I'm not a tree hugger, but I live in the woods, I've lived in the woods my whole life, and I've studied the forest. My friends are the same. Where's the balance in the woods? There is no doubt that there is no balance in Estonia today. My colleague Kalle Palling, who has already left here, threw the ball to the side of the rulers. The coalition belongs to me, too. I cannot tell Kalle Palling right now that the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of RMK, who was recently replaced by another man whose son has started to build a refinery, happens to be a member of the Reform Party. The so-called harvesters' riot also took place largely during the rule of the Reform Party. In fact, axes or harvesters operate not only during the day but also at night. The clearcut is already forming along the great roads. The silence that used to be in the woods is long gone. I'm not going to talk about a private forest where there's no cutting peace. I'm not going to tell you that there's a spring storm every year. But I'm asking why not be Sygistorm. After all, the spring storm occurs when birds and animals are nesting and have a fine family. This exercise is very disturbing to the forest dwellers. We listened here today to Toomas Frey, a man who knows the tree well, the felling age and maturity of which we try to tear down to 60 years. Toomas Frey has studied the tree and knows best what it all really means. His answer to my question about why we tend to attack a young tree is that we only care about money. The 30 million that RMK, a large dairy cow, gives to and starts to give to the state budget, of course, will come in handy. But at what cost does it come? The state of land grabbing, foresters, woodpeckers and many other forest dwellers (there are more than 20,000 species in total) has not been evaluated in Estonia. We do not know, unlike Finland and other neighbouring countries, what their reality is. They live in the woods. There is some kind of demagogic talk about increasing the ceilings and reducing the tree's felling age that we are taking the wish, the land and the salumes into protection. It should have been done a long time ago. The ironic thing about it is that many of the places that should be protected have already been cut open. It's just hope that the new forest will grow up because it's where it grows. So it's a long time ago out of balance. It's been said that the forest is green gold. This gloss of gold is now in the eyes of the State and the Lords of the Ministry of the Environment, it is also in the eyes of the Lords of RMK. RMK has many tasks, but I remember how many years it lasted... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U145	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U146	... the jant Männikjärv with a table road and a view tower repair. I turned to the current leader of RMK back then that, Aigar, let's have a little table and fix this tower together. It took years, and now it's finally ready. There was talk of money, but it can't be used. By the way, the observation towers are falling apart somewhere else, and on Männikjärv it is now in order. Actually, it's very serious. Toomas Frey, a respected former minister and forest specialist, has said that the current forest law should be declared unconstitutional, not to mention the draft forest law that we are dealing with here. I recall that the law on sustainable development came into force in April 22 years ago. We're pretty far from it. There's supposed to be a place of sobriety here tonight. If we don't listen to Professor Frey or Asko Lõhmus, who else has been quoted here, who else will we listen to? Are we smarter and we tell you how things are, or are we giving decision-making to the forest moguls and saying that's how it works? No, guys, that's not how it works. The forest is gold, but gold isn't just logs. There are also many other gold in the forest. These same savages, the lava fish and many other species, some of them may not even have an Estonian name, they are completely silent, they cannot scream or come here to protest before the castle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U147	Honourable Riigikogu! I had this belief that I could give a word to all the people who wanted it before one o'clock, but it turned out to be deceiving. That is why the vote is now coming. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Free Party Group to extend the sitting until this item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There were 19 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, no respondents or abstentions. Working time has been extended until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U148	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There have been several levels of talk on this subject today. I'm trying to talk on the broadest possible level. The forest is not a common, everyday thing, but an extraordinary thing. I just recently came from a country in southern Europe where the forest was cut down in a mountainous country millennia ago. It'll never recover again. Now there are no more sheep herds on the slopes of these mountains, and the local people do not think that, in principle, these mountains could be reforested. The relations between Estonian people and the forest are in some ways very unusual and extraordinary, because we are the par excellence of forest land. If a piece of land in Estonia is excluded from other uses, then soon the forest will grow on it. Even in the Lutepää Livonia, where I was able to get into when the border was not yet in front of the wire fence, it was evident that this once burned-out scorched sandy area had finally overlapd with a young pine, with the old forest level often three metres above the level of the new forest on sandy slopes. That's what we got. The forest has always been and will always be after us. This is one of the relations between the Estonian and his country. The other thing is the role of people. As far as the forest is concerned, almost all Estonians have their own opinion. This is not something that the Estonians would say that oh, what we now know let the specialists think and decide. As for the welfare of the forest, almost everyone in my generation of Estonians has something to say about it. This fact, namely the triangle of relations between people, the forest and the state, makes this subject very different from others. The state forest in its current form began as a result of the land reform of the 1920s. The forest masses taken from the manors were grouped into state forests. It is also, internationally, quite unusual that most of the most valuable forest in isolation, as a coherent cluster of treasures or as an economic area, belongs directly to the state and is to manage the country. In Soviet times, there was a colhoostic. After the restoration of independence, when a constitutional property reform took place, the collective forest (partly state forest) had to be returned to legitimate owners. But in any case, one of the key issues that needs to be answered again now is whether the future of Estonia must be the same as it has been that most of the quality forest we call the state forest and manage nationally. I have heard that there are now about 100000 private forest owners in Estonia. Let's ask why so little. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U149	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U150	There could be 300,000 of them. Let's think about it from here! Another key issue is why the majority of the commercial forest must be managed by the state. It could be more reasonable and profitable to manage in some other way. The third issue is the role of people. Those who are not forest owners also want to have a say in this area. But how has the situation developed during the restoration of independence? We have been forced on or have developed such a complex of views that it must first be dealt with by the Ministry and, in addition, by various so-called green organisations. These organizations have found quite a smooth understanding with the state's official staff. The Greens, in my opinion, have long gone into the so-called national economic food chain and thus lost a great deal of people's faith that they could shape this policy and manage the representation of the public's opinion. I think it is also clear now that we need to find some other way in which people who are not professionally involved in decision-making on forest and other natural issues would have this opportunity. How exactly, I can't tell. Thinking about nature conservation, you might consider something like the auxiliary police. Why can't we have their voluntary help alongside nature conservation officials? It may also be asked whether forestry issues in Estonia would not be appropriate to decide on a referendum if the questions could be written in such a way that only yes or no can be answered. But a situation where intellectuals write protest articles, and as the summer approaches, people come to more and more demonstrations because of forest issues, is not normal. This can't go on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U151	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U152	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The forest is, in my opinion, a very inspiring thing. Many beautiful words have been said here today, but I do not know exactly how much he inspires society as a whole. After all, there is talk of children who cry when they get into the woods because the environment is so strange to them, even though they have been taken there in secure company. This was already supposed to be the case in Estonia. I certainly welcome this debate. I think what we are dealing with here today is a matter of conscience. If this succeeded in making the forest more inspiring to more people in the spiritual sense, then this debate has been useful. Listening to this story, I didn't have any plan, as I used to say here, to come to the remote. I was just inspired by some of the words that sounded here, and it was like an obligation to intervene. Someone started with where there's balance in the woods. My answer is that there is no balance. We've ruined this balance, we're aliens, we're a foreign body, but the forest is the real thing. The forest is certainly not an extraordinary thing, but it is the thing that should be in Estonia, but it is still largely not here, and it is often far from the thing that nature has created and should be here. Of course, I'm attracted to what's supposed to be here, much more than what's here. Of course, as a child, I spent a lot of time in the forest, and my views have been shaped by these memories or feelings, but unfortunately academic knowledge. When I studied my first higher education, I studied a lot of natural sciences, and that is why I want to draw attention to our current use of words. We're talking about scavenging. It sounds like we're gonna tell somebody he's a killer. We should still bend over whenever we take something from nature. We usually don't give back anything, and we're selfish. To be realistic, you have to admit that, of course, it is all about seeking a balance between your interests and nature. But I think in this search for balance, too, we are hopelessly out of ecology. In fact, it is not necessarily the natural forest that produces more wood, but it is a living environment for many organisms, many of which have unfortunately disappeared during the exploitation of the forest. Diversity is no longer what it should be in nature. We should admit it to ourselves. When it comes to the economy, we must say that, of course, we are not abandoning forestry; we are not capable of doing so; we are not that big. We already exist. But we really have to admit that 50% of the surface we're taking a percentage in terms of efficiency or something like that. It is an enormously extensive economy and it makes very little money. We bow deeply to those who work in forestry, also in economic terms. These jobs and these people deserve respect. But really, let's not look here for the universal... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U153	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U154	... and a tool available to all. I have also said this more than once in my party that we should really lean our attitudes a little towards the heart. First of all, we're not gonna be rich like this. That's a practical reason. But second, let's bow down to this resource, and when we write these regulations, we'll think that the forest isn't meant to be logged. So let's keep him, manage him as sustainably as possible, keep his diversity, let's not taunt animals in the woods, flying squirrels or anyone, they're still a natural part of the forest, we're intruders. I do not know a very practical way out of making a painful choice between self-interest and economic and ecological responsibility. But the law of the forest is before us, let's look at it calmly and critically. I don't think anything's gonna happen. My current feeling is this kind of thing if it doesn't come up with the law. We'll continue to manage the forest, but hopefully we've signaled that the forest when the real thing is important to us and we feel threatened. Whoever owns the forest is not, in my opinion, the most important issue. In economic terms, we should not all be forest owners. I think that nothing will happen as far as the sustainability of the forest is concerned if the owners of the forest are the people who can handle it, both to protect it and to manage it within certain limits. The forest doesn't have a real owner, it seems to me, it's given to all of us at once, and the way this property is distributed is secondary. Let's critically review the law of the forest! That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-13_U155	The sitting is adjourned. Happy holidays to all of you! Closure of the sitting at 13.10 a.m.
