ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 10th working week of the V plenary session. First, the delivery of drafts and enquiries. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Today, the National Audit Office's audit of the financing of local governments was made public. It analyses the financial information of Estonian local governments in recent years and concludes that the ability of local governments to influence their own revenues is relatively small. There are also very large differences in capacity and it is feared that these differences in capacity will remain after the merger of municipalities. In addition, in 2010 the Supreme Court declared an unconstitutional situation where legislation does not limit the functions of local governments and state authorities. This situation has lasted for a very long time in the hands of different governments. In this context and also pushing from the audit of the National Audit Office, we have a number of questions for the Prime Minister. The administrative reform has progressed, with no clarity on the issue of municipal funding. The audit of the National Audit Office gives all the more reason to think about and to raise these questions. We expect answers from the Prime Minister to a total of five questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U3	As the initiator of the bill, the Government of the Republic, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U4	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in processing this draft in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and the Rescue Services Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior. Third, the draft law amending the Study Grants and Student Loan Act and the Employment Capacity Support Act. Kaia Iva, Minister of Social Protection, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this draft. Fourthly, the draft law on explosives. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Road Traffic Act, the Road Transport Act and the Tax Administration Act. Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the last two drafts in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U5	No more wishes. I have adopted five drafts and one inquiry. We will continue to deal with them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, presence control, please! 78 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session and 23 are not present. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 10th working week of the V plenary session. Please take a stand and vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda and there are no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U6	Let's start according to the approved agenda. The first question has been made by Laine Randjärv, Maris Lauri, Kalle Laanet, Lauri Luik, Meelis Mälberg, Kalle Palling, Hanno Pevkur, Kristen Michal, Yoko Alender, Urve Tiidus, Terje Trei and Heidy Purga. On behalf of the heirs Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The question concerns the possible transfer of educational responsibilities of rural governments. We have presented it to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, because the subject covers more generally several ministries, not just the administration of the Ministry of Education and Research. I must begin by stressing that the idea of the liquidation of rural governments was initiated during the previous government, and this is certainly the right idea. By doing so, rural governments themselves and many institutions have so far dealt with rural governments. It is now basically a matter of the deadline that was set after the change of government: it was quickly raised six months closer. As far as educational issues are concerned, this is a sensitive issue. The school year is known to end in June and if a new regime is to be introduced as of 1 January 2018, it can actually be organised in October, after this year's municipal elections. The transition period is too short. The educational organizational tasks in the focus of our inquiry have not been mapped, and they have not been negotiated with the partners and parties concerned, they have been introduced, let alone involved. This information is provided by the Association of Municipalities and the Cities Association. The Committee on Culture also met with the Minister for Public Administration, Mr Korb, at its meeting, but we did not get adequate answers or confidence from him that the organisation of things would follow a good schedule. Just in case, I'm going to read from this remote control what exactly educational tasks we're dealing with. Perhaps many people think that a couple of officials are sitting in the county government, which they do there. In fact, they have the following tasks: student events and activities of associations of subjects; entry of final documents into the EHIS; activities related to external evaluation of learning outcomes, exams, studies; individual issues of national and administrative supervision, complaints, disputes; advice and information exchange; data collection and analysis; monitoring of the EHIS, the education information system; county analyses; youth work network; student home activities, assessment of needs and suitability; information exchange with schools and local authorities, other organisations; distribution of teaching and information materials; use of premises for organising study and information days; junior commissions. Also topics related to the track forwarder, health promotion, child protection, special educational needs, cooperation with the science school, singing and dance activities, regional thank-you events, various analyses, regional studies, subject maps, school sports, hobby education, local government capacity in the field of education. Since the emergence of new municipalities, there are a number of issues relating to the organisation of education, the updating of documents, the restructuring of educational establishments, the merger, the separation, etc. Today, the associations of local governments have not dealt with these issues in such a way that they can convey this issue with a calm heart and confirm that from 1 January 2018 everything in the education system will be done in such a way that decisions made in a hurry do not have to be reversed by correcting errors. We have asked the Prime Minister five questions. I'll ask the answer to read them myself and answer them one at a time. We look forward to meaningful answers. There is no point in making such a very general talk, because school is the foundation and the beginning of everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U8	The Prime Minister, Jüri Ratas, provides meaningful answers where there is no general discussion. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U9	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, first of all, thank you for asking questions and for serious questions. I assure all members of the Riigikogu, including, of course, the heirs, that the Ministry of Finance has mapped the educational functions of rural governments during the preparation of the draft on the dissolution of rural governments. Representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Finance have met with the heads of units carrying out the educational functions of rural governments and asked them to describe all the tasks currently performed by county government officials in the field of education. The author of the inquiry already counted them here in the Riigikogu Chair. The Minister of Education and Research has confirmed that further implementation of the task of national and administrative supervision of educational institutions and advice to the managers of educational institutions is planned. The supervisory competence will be fully concentrated under the Ministry of Education and Research. At present, the monitoring resource is distributed unevenly between rural areas and does not depend on the size of educational institutions, the number of students and the number of educational institutions. As a result of the changes, the tasks will be improved effectively and more attention can be paid to the collection and analysis of information, to providing more meaningful and useful feedback to educational institutions and their keepers, as well as to the risk assessment of educational institutions, as well as to the provision of advice to schools and their managers in need of support. The draft law on the reform of the rural government uses the term 'educational tasks'. When the preparation process of the state reform has been discussed in some documents about the organisation of schools and the organisation of early childhood education, it is inaccurate. In addition to supervision, we have been preparing for the restructuring of rural governments in the light of the other educational tasks that rural governments are currently carrying out. Examples include, first, activities related to the preparation and conduct of international education studies, state-level studies and examinations. Secondly, activities related to the ordering and issuing of educational documents, planks, gold and silver medals and the control of their use. Third, activities related to the organisation of traditional regional educational events and support for the work of county educational networks. These include the organisation of regional olympiads, the coordination of association of subjects, the recognition of students and teachers and the organisation of related events. Fourthly, guidance for school leaders and school holders on a wide range of education-related issues. And fifthly, in the planning of the county school network, you can advise, support local governments, provide the necessary information and support cooperation between municipalities. Now let me go specifically to your questions. As the heirs have asked, I will read the questions. The first question: "Who is now being handed over to in the field of the education arrangements of rural governments? Has preparatory work and negotiations started with this institution? ' Educational and state supervision and counselling of educational institutions and their managers will be brought together in full under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Research. The Ministry has expressed its willingness to take over the supervisory function, if necessary, from the beginning of the next academic year, from 1 September this year. The organisation of the activities required for international education studies, state-level work and examinations and for the commissioning and issuing of educational documents, plans, gold and silver medals is and will continue to be the task of the Foundation Innove. The work done so far by county government officials will be taken over by SA Innove. Organisational tasks can be transferred, if necessary, to the SA Innove structural unit's runways and regional centres. Innove has coordinated the transposition of tasks and is ready to organise this work from 1 January 2018. The Ministry of Education and Research has already awarded events and networking for county students and teachers in 2014 to local government associations and major cities on the basis of contracts. Let us give an example here of Tartu, Pärnu, Narva and Tallinn. The representatives of local government associations and major cities that are contracting partners have confirmed in the framework of the preparation of the contracts that they have the capacity and readiness to carry out these tasks with the support of the rural government. Individual regions with problems will be interacted during the preparation of the changes, seeking solutions suitable for cooperation. The Ministry of Education and Research will provide guidance and guidance for the planning of the school network, the provision of advice to local authorities and the provision of necessary information, and the provision of advice and guidance to school leaders, local authorities and their associations in education matters. The second question: 'What role will local governments have to play, who have so far received professional support from specialists working in rural governments? " The role of local government associations in carrying out the above-mentioned educational organisation tasks has been fixed in bilateral agreements concluded by the Ministry of Education and Research with local government associations since 2014. Local government associations and school holders will receive support and advice from the Ministry of Education and Research. In most counties, local government associations and larger cities organise educational organisation activities independently. It is important that associations of municipalities have the capacity to organise regional educational events and networking activities. The current possibility of using the help of rural governments in carrying out these tasks has in some cases hampered the motivation of associations of local governments to start doing all this on their own. The Ministry of Education and Research has been in contact with all local government associations and local authorities with whom the relevant agreements have been concluded and has studied how the educational organizational tasks are to be carried out after the abolition of rural governments. Most municipalities do not see a problem, it is confirmed that they can manage on their own. There are also some problem areas where suitable solutions are still being sought. The Ministry has mapped these areas and will work closely with local government associations and local authorities before the abolition of rural governments to ensure that the tasks are carried out smoothly even after the beginning of 2018. The third question: 'How do you ensure that the relevant educational competence continues to exist in the local government associations? ' I think that the more independent local government associations carry out the tasks undertaken by their treaty, the faster their competence in carrying out the tasks will be increased. The Ministry of Education and Research contributes more to the counselling of local government associations and local governments. Question 4: 'More than half of the municipalities do not have an education official or a professional training. How is professional advice provided by both the schoolkeeper and the head of the educational institution? ' The work of the officials supervising the Ministry of Education and Research is related to the educational institutions of a certain region and will continue to be responsible for advising the educational institutions and their managers in their region and for organising the exchange of information. More attention will certainly be paid to cooperation with schoolteachers. Raising awareness and competence of school holders in the field of education is also a priority for the Ministry of Education and Research in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U10	Questions for the Prime Minister. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U11	Thank you. Prime Minister! Reform of rural governments is certainly necessary. I myself had the honour of initiating this and it was very good of you to continue this work. It does, however, concern how it is done. Somewhere in the office, a date was set in stone, which had not been negotiated with the parties. This has caused a great deal of confusion, a great deal of ignorance in rural governments, authorities, ministries. This confusion has so far not been eliminated. Time is ticking, municipalities are merging, there are a lot of new tasks, a lot of new situations. At the same time as reforming rural governments, are you not afraid that because of such simply unprofessional activity, people will leave rural governments, professionalism will disappear, and regionally it will be rather a negative reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U12	Honourable questioner, I will actually begin by thanking you. I fully agree that you and the previous government personally initiated this reform of the state and the reform of the rural governments. Yes, we have brought forward the deadline for the liquidation of rural governments, which is now January 1, 2018. I also agree that reforms must be preceded by very thorough analyses. I assure you that in the field of education, as well as in other areas, a specific question concerning the area of education has not been dealt with in haste and without analysis of everything that has been made. Decisions have been negotiated with the parties. Very briefly, I will repeat everything again. So far, the Ministry of Education and Research will supervise national and administrative activities in the field of education and education, and in the future the Ministry of Education and Research will carry out this task. Secondly, the Ministry of Education and Research will provide guidance to school leaders and school managers on issues related to education. Thirdly, planning the school network, advising local governments, supporting them, providing them with the necessary information, supporting the cooperation of municipalities in the field of education, and in the future the Ministry of Education and Research will do so. Fourthly, various studies, such as PISA's proficiency tests and examinations, will carry out this task in the future in Innove. Fifthly, the activities related to checking the ordering, issuing and use of educational documents, planks, gold and silver medals are, and are, the work of Innove. Lastly, the organisation of regional events, whether they be olympiads, recognition of pupils and teachers, support for networking, associations of school and kindergarten leaders and the work of student associations, as I have already said, will be done by local government associations and larger cities from 2014. I fully agree that these questions still need to be clarified. But surely nothing is done in a hurry, overfoot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U13	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You said that, in general, things are moving normally, but there are problem areas where the transfer of educational tasks is still uncomplicated, because it is difficult. Can you specify which regions these are? Secondly, I was given the impression from you that the county's competence and expertise in organising education, i.e. more of these jobs will be in Tallinn and Tartu. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U15	Thank you. First of all, I will answer your first question. It is no secret that the most difficult situation is in Saaremaa. I'm not saying this situation is hopeless. On the contrary! However, this work is still in progress there, and it is just a matter of trying to find more common ground and work harder to achieve it. In answer to the second question, I assure you that neither the Pathfinder nor the Innove will disappear. It doesn't go away. Each task of the present county government has been assigned a specific responsibility, either the Ministry of Education and Research, Innove or the Local Government Association. You're asking if the posts are going down. Yes, if the governments of the country disappear, so will the positions of the rural governments. Some of these posts go to the Ministry of Education and Research, some functions are taken over by local government associations or local authorities, such as larger cities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U16	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I will continue on a more general subject. In addition to the question asked by Taavi Asa, people are already leaving rural governments. This is what the Põlva governor has just told us in the National Reform Committee. They have put forward proposals to prevent this confusion, which is likely to follow the elections and the breakdown of rural governments. Tell me, how do you feel about the proposals of the rural governments to carry out this reform one year later and to give the local government associations public status and more functions through it, including, for example, planning issues, which I understand you want to delegate to the ministries?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U18	I believe Andres Herkel meant Arto Asa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U19	I thank the Chairman of the Riigikogu, and my thought went to the question of Arto Asa. But that's it. If we wanted to postpone the abolition of rural governments for one year, there should be some very specific reason for this. As far as I know, there's no need. Members of the previous government know better, but as far as I know, 1 January 2019 has not been discussed. If there was any argument, I think it was about changing that deadline by six months. I do not see the need to set the deadline for 1 July 2018 at the moment, not 1 January. The topics have been discussed, the areas of responsibility are known and the actions of rural governments do not fall between the gears. It is also very clear, apart from 1 January, who is involved in this area. It's just six months or a year that doesn't make sense. Let us be honest, it would hardly increase the motivation of people working in rural governments if we simply extended the availability of these jobs for a year. I don't see a very high-weight argument to do that. Speaking of supervision, I didn't quite understand whether, under supervision, you meant monitoring the planning of education or local governments. As far as the supervision of education is concerned, I have already said that this task will go to the Ministry of Education and Research. If you are referring to the planning process, I believe that most of these areas must remain in the hands of the State and be managed by the State. This job will be done by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U20	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! You referred to studies that show that everything is going to be okay and there are no problems. But did you, in addition to the research carried out during the previous government, carry out any studies that gave you the assurance that it would be reasonable to start this liquidation six months earlier? After all, there will be new municipalities, there will also be changes in the compositions of the associations of local governments, and other people can be elected to one or the other, and this will complicate the development of the whole system. Did you change that deadline just to separate from the previous government, or did you conclude from further studies that you had to do this six months earlier?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U22	Surely our goal was not simply to make different decisions. For example, if the previous government has made a decision to launch something from the 15th, or mid-month, then we have to make a decision to enforce it from the 31st or 1st. That was not our goal. You asked if any further studies had been carried out. If that includes consultations, negotiations, bilateral meetings and analyses, then yes, they have been done. They have been made through the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Finance, and in particular through the Minister of Public Administration. There's been meetings with the county governments, Innove and so on. That's one. Point two: This issue has also been discussed very seriously several times in the government's office. So this work has been carried out consistently and the government currently believes that 31 December 2017 could be the last day of the rural governments' work. Now I'm sorry to the last questioner! You asked whether to add more weight to the municipal associations and give them public status. But this requires a very fundamental reform in this regard. Personally, I don't think this is a bad idea at all, but there is no such agreement or willingness right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U23	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U24	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, thank you very much for a very meaningful and comprehensive response prepared by the Ministry of Education and Research in a good way. I am also pleased that you have brought yourself up to date on this issue. However, I am not satisfied with the answer, which states that haste will make this thing better. I agree with the previous questioner, Urmas Kruus, who said that after the local elections there might be a great deal of confusion, because the compositions of these alliances to whom these tasks are to be transferred maybe change greatly. But my question concerns the Pathfinder. You indicated that its units would also be entrusted with tasks. However, the Committee on Culture has realised that the Ministry of Education and Research is not satisfied with the current activities of the Pathfinder. These people are already overburdened with all sorts of activities, and they can't even do what they have to do now. So I say once again that it is not well thought out, to whom and how these tasks are transferred. Minister Korb did not provide clear answers in the Committee on Culture either.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U25	Now, a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U26	My question: is two and a half months in 2017 sufficient time for preparation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U27	Good questioner, you had three or four questions, I'm trying to answer them. You had very specific and meaningful questions in your inquiry, and you also asked me to give them meaningful answers. As far as haste is concerned, I have not said that this change is being made because you have to run a race with someone. Rather, it has been referred to in some respects. You too spoke of haste and ended with a specific question as to whether two and a half months would be sufficient time. The short answer is this: I think this is enough time. A little longer to answer: what can be denied here, when the rural governments disappear and the very large local government reform has been implemented in Estonia, there must be very many responsibilities at the level of local governments and at the level of the state. The current government coalition has announced that we want to give more tasks together with funding to local governments. I sensed the opinion of you and the members of your group on a number of issues, perhaps it is also a constructive criticism, so that in fact the state's good sense of elbows could continue for a certain period of time. I think we could discuss this together. I do not at all rule out a transitional period for certain posts. This is the time to discuss this issue. There are a few months left to make specific decisions on these matters. Now the Pathfinder. You said the HTM wasn't happy. I have spoken to the Minister of Education and Science, and he has confirmed that he is very pleased with the Pathfinder. I don't know which one's on the line. You, of course, referred to the Ministry of Education and Research, I referred to the Minister of Education and Research, who very much praised their activities. But the fact that there is a very heavy burden and a very heavy responsibility was also mentioned by him.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U28	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U29	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! It turned out from your answers that the tasks of education officials working in rural governments are shared between several institutions. What does your forecast say: will the number of officials remain the same in the field of education, decrease or increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U30	Thank you. I was looking forward to that question. It can now be said that it depends on how we try to equalize jobs in rural governments with a coefficient of 1, but let's say the order of magnitude should be 30.35. These tasks, which will be transferred to the Ministry of Education and Research, should mean the creation of an additional nine to ten posts in the first stage. But the number of officials in this area will certainly decrease, not increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U31	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! There are indeed many specific tasks in the educational system that you have read up nicely, also mentioning what is now going to Innove, which to the Pathfinder, which to the HTM. However, the education officials of rural governments also fulfilled one of the very difficult tasks of developing a regional identity for young people. This was also done through song festivals and various olympiads. I have now observed in many places the fear that the disappearance of rural governments will result in the loss of the county identity. It's not like anyone's problem is designing it anymore. Is it even meant to be, and do you see any role here in the associations of local governments or local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U33	Good questioner, you answered it yourself in your last sentence. I have emphasised twice that the substance olympiads and any trans-regional cooperation have been the property of local governments or local authorities since 2014 in a large number of counties. This is the case, for example, in larger cities. Concerns about identity can be understood, and it is worth keeping this subject on the table, because it is very important that this identity does not disappear. But that is really what the local government associations have been working on for many years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U34	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! I'm opening negotiations. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U35	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As sounded several times in this Chamber, no one would object to the cessation of rural government activities and to giving local authorities more opportunities to organise things. What's glowing and worrying about this is what happens to these jobs in different counties. These jobs can move to two major centres. This, however, is contrary to the ideology that we have advocated, talking about the removal of jobs in large cities, so that there would also be work in smaller towns for a highly skilled workforce. There was another question I couldn't answer. Would the Prime Minister still be able to answer such a question: what happens if, after the elections, representatives of local governments come together in a union of local governments and decide that this union will not continue in this form? The Municipalities Association is by its very nature a voluntary association and municipalities can withdraw from it. With whom, then, will the honorable state carry out these various tasks? In fact, we do not have all the questions in mind, and as a result, this haste seems to be not pragmatic, but rather political. In fact, this is also indicated by the fact that it is absolutely necessary to get rid of the rural elders six months before the country governments are abolished. In this regard, too, the Minister is not yet able to give an exhaustive answer. That is why I understand the fear of colleagues when they say that worthy specialists can simply break up with rural governments, and so we can lose a lot of competence. I therefore urge the Prime Minister to consider all these issues and to think that the problems that arise should be resolved in parallel. There is no need to rush politically. However, bringing the deadline six months forward certainly points to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U36	The members of the Riigikogu have no more wish to negotiate, nor does the Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U37	The following question is submitted by Anne Sulling, Johannes Kert, Laine Randjärv, Valdo Randpere, Urmas Kruuse, Eerik-Niles Kross, Kalle Laanet, Deniss Boroditš, Heidy Purga, Yoko Alender, Meelis Mälberg, Aivar Sõerd, Urve Tiidus, Maris Lauri, Hanno Pevkur, Kalle Palling, Toomas Kivimägi, Terje Trei, Jüri Jaanson, Lauri Luik, Liina Kersna and Jürgen Ligi. Anne Sulling, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U38	Good chairman of the sitting! Good Prime Minister! In its latest report, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has drawn attention to the fact that wage growth in Estonia has been considerably above productivity growth for a long time, thus reducing the competitiveness of our economy. In its reports, the IMF has outlined a number of recommendations that should be made in order to improve productivity. For example, they have recommended the establishment of a productivity-related team at the PM's office, with the task of dealing with programmes to support productivity growth, assessing their effectiveness and, if necessary, initiating changes to them. The IMF has also recommended increasing the volume of existing programmes to support productivity. For example, they have proposed a multiplication of the volume of the EAS company's development programme, as well as a multiplication of the innovation unit measure. Thirdly, the IMF recommends the creation of support measures for traditional industries to help increase the added value produced, as productivity in this industry is one of the lowest. At the same time, there is a large part of jobs and a large part of value creation is taking place in our economy. In this regard, we have asked the Prime Minister whether the Government is going to take these recommendations into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U39	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U40	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! On some issues, it can be said that the views of the IMF, the Reform Party Group and the Government are completely in agreement. I hope that sometimes the views of other groups of the Riigikogu also coincide with them. But I will now go to the questions and answers. The first question: 'Do you intend to set up a team of specialists at your office to monitor and guide the implementation of measures to support productivity growth? ' I'm gonna start a little further away. First of all, Estonia's economic growth has been low in the last few years. Last two years, Estonia's economic growth was also below the average economic growth in the euro area, which is exceptional in historical terms, unfortunately in a negative sense. There are certainly a number of reasons for low growth. Estonia is a small open economy and we are greatly affected by everything that takes place in the external environment, and above all by the economic performance of our closest neighbours. For example, Finland's economic difficulties have had a considerable impact on our exports. Apart from the years immediately following the global financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, Estonia's low economic growth has mainly led to poor productivity growth. Indeed, production per employee has not increased at the rate we have seen so far. If wage growth is faster than productivity growth over a long period of time, then there is a risk to the country's competitiveness. I would add that small productivity growth is not only a problem in Estonia, it is a global concern that characterises both developed economies and emerging economies. Now, more specifically, to your question and its answer. Indeed, in the IMF reports on Estonia, there is a proposal to set up a government committee responsible for productivity growth under the Prime Minister's authority, which should supervise the implementation of the measures concerned. This proposal is already found in the IMF 2015 report, so the IMF made it to Estonia several years ago. The government plans to set up an economic development committee to ensure economic growth as one of its priorities, which will address issues of increasing productivity and improving Estonia's competitiveness, taking steps to accelerate economic growth in Estonia. The task of the Committee on Economic Development is to assess how well current productivity growth strategies and their different components work. The Head of the Government Commission of Ministers shall be the Prime Minister. I can only tell you about the plans now, because the government has not yet made a final decision, but hopefully this will be a matter for the coming weeks. The format of the Government Commission would, by its very nature, follow the example of the Security Committee, and there would be monthly meetings. It is served by a busy and certainly capable secretariat, where the State Chancellery plays a key role. You could work under the secretariat and, in my opinion, the thematic working groups should work. Some of them could be permanent and involve professional associations, if necessary, also external experts. One example is the labour market working group, the business environment promotion working group and certainly the industrial digitisation working group. Returning to the beginning of my reply, I say that the Government Committee can address the internal problems of the Estonian economy. If the external environment is weak, it will inevitably also have an impact on Estonia's economic growth. The second question: 'Do you plan to allocate additional resources from the state budget for measures to support productivity growth, as recommended by the IMF? If so, what amount and for which programmes? "The competitiveness plan "Estonia 2020" approved by the government on 28 April 2011 aims to reach 80% of the EU average productivity level by 2020. I'm sure that's a big challenge. If we compare the target set in the competitiveness plan with the current situation, we will see that we have clearly laged behind it in recent years. The problem is wider because, in previous years, we are lagging behind the objectives of the R &amp; D &amp; I strategy. To address this problem, the government in office has a firm objective of increasing the share of public R &amp; D expenditure in our GDP. At the same time, private R &amp; D spending is even more behind the R &amp; D and innovation targets. I think that certain shortcomings in the collection of statistics from the private sector also play a role in Estonia. I believe that we have much more R &amp; D than the statistics show. The International Monetary Fund has also recommended that Estonia extend the measure of the company development programme, which covers a small part of Estonia's enterprises, as well as the measure of the innovation unit, which sets clearer restrictions on the use of shares. The IMF has also noted that the innovation activity of companies is sluggish, although a number of authorities provide innovation support. One important problem has been the lack of participation of people in retraining by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). There are opportunities for retraining in Estonia, but more should be done within the framework of the lifelong learning strategy in order to attract those interested in retraining better. All these measures must take into account that the Estonian economy is dominated by traditional companies. Overall, productivity growth has, of course, a broader context; only the two measures mentioned above are not sufficient. However, the Committee on Economic Development, which will be set up, will certainly address these narrower and broader issues. In answer to your question about additional resources, I note that the government does not intend to devote more money to the implementation of the company's development programme and innovation unit measures. However, I stress that the Committee on Economic Development must take a holistic approach to the issue of productivity and not be limited to a few measures. Question 3: "Are you planning separate measures aimed at supporting the growth of added value in traditional industry? If so, which ones? 'The programme of action of the Government of the Republic has set out the task of developing a Green Paper on Industry. The deadline is also September. In this context, I expect the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to assess what measures are needed to promote growth in traditional industries. I fully share the assessment on which this issue is based that in traditional industry we need to do more to increase productivity. We have a much lower level of productivity in industry than in the European Union on average. More emphasis should also be placed on the use of digital solutions in the private sector. The digitalisation of industry, which is very much being carried out by, for example, a Member State of the European Union, Germany, is one of our untapped opportunities to date. I consider it important that Estonia also move towards digitalisation of industry. The Green Paper on Industrial Policy should provide a comprehensive vision of the digitalisation of industry. One of the permanent working groups of the Committee on Economic Development could, in my opinion, focus on this issue. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U41	Questions for the Prime Minister. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! You and the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Rural Affairs recently visited Tori's horse farm. Consequently, in the context of today's inquiry, I ask you whether you are now ready to support the development of Tori's horse breeding, initiated by the former Minister for Rural Affairs, which the current minister considers appropriate. This would be a good opportunity to gain more added value in this sector and to achieve better productivity.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U43	I think it is commendable that, as your minister, you have tried everything you can to further develop and invest public money in Toris's horse farming. Yes, it is true that one beautiful weekend, I visited Toris's horse farm with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Rural Affairs. Are there any positive developments to be expected here? First of all, two ministries, the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, must agree on the form in which these activities can be further developed. This can be done as a foundation composed of representatives of the state and private sector, representatives of the state, private sector and local government, or only representatives of the state. If it is set , in the middle of last week, I was informed that the two ministries had practically reached a final agreement, then of course, it is also a question of the content of the work. It is also very important to take into account that the successful development of Tori's horse farming requires serious cooperation with the local government, as the horse farm is also a tourist destination where horse breeding is introduced. And whether or not to act as a foundation in law, close cooperation with the private sector is also very important. Without it, there is no point in developing this centre further. The most difficult question, however, is the question of money. I have a solid understanding of how Tori's horse breeding could go on, where the financial resources could come from and how big the investments are. Just a little bit more time is needed for the members of the cabinet and the ministries so that this last issue can also be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U44	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In one way, it was good to hear that the activities that were ever launched, such as the search for economic development opportunities set up by the previous Prime Minister, which I myself participated in, are not to be excluded from all of them. Some thoughts maybe bread for use. But it still seems to me that there's a lot of stalling. We had a number of concrete proposals on how to stimulate the economy and increase productivity. Ideas have come from elsewhere. Why even make such high-level committees and good long-term plans? Is it really difficult to implement already existing proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U46	Thank you, good questioner! I do not think that the format for replying to enquiries requires political discussions. You asked why you didn't do one thing or another right now and the way the previous government did. Yes, I agree that the previous government did a lot of things right. I said, in answer to the first question of your inquiry, that a government committee responsible for productivity growth should be set up under the Prime Minister's authority. This was proposed by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in the 2015 report, but so far it has not been set up by the Commission. I have told you very clearly that this is a matter of work and that it is very likely that the matter will be resolved in the forthcoming weeks at the meeting of the Government of the Republic. You asked why a committee would have to do what its purpose is. I don't know, we rely on our personal experience on the one hand to do some things. I referred to the Security Commission in my reply. In my opinion, the Government Committee should have the same format as the Security Committee. There is no point in setting up a Commission that meets twice a year. It really doesn't make any sense. I think that if we really want to make any changes, it needs someone to deal with it every day at the level of the administration. In the case of the Security Commission, this is the case, the relevant authority is the State Chancellery. I very much appreciate my fellow Members from the State Chancellery, they have a very good competence. And this team has been created by both the current government and previous governments. The work of the Committee on Economic Development would be supported daily by the State Chancellery, which would involve certain working groups. I do not want to say that this will cause our economy and productivity to increase, but it would be one of the cornerstones on which ministers and, through them, different ministries can be brought to one table. This pace is certainly faster than what was proposed in 2015 and so far is not the Commission. But that is not the point of making a policy here at the moment. Economic indicators concern both you and me. We are saying that wage growth has exceeded productivity growth, and this has been the case since 2012. Since then, we have seen that wage growth is ahead of productivity growth. If, for example, we look at the share of investment in GDP, we see that this is also in a declining trend. This figure has now reached 2009-2010. A year, i.e. to a time of crisis. In fact, the share of investment in GDP started to fall at the beginning of 2012 and since then it has always been in a downward trend. Of course, it concerns both you and me, it does not matter what kind of coalition is in power. If we look at relative productivity, which also takes into account purchasing power, we have data for 2015, when it was 71.1% of the European Union average. If we compare ourselves with Latvia in 2015, we were a few percent better than Lithuania, but a few percent worse than Lithuania. But in any case, thank you sincerely for bringing this question to the table in your question. I think we should also be compared to Finland. If we had 71.1% in 2015, then Finland had 107.9%. So we have to work on that. This decline, which has been in recent years, must, of course, be slowed down, the productivity indicator must start to grow again.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U47	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U48	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! We know that Estonia is one of the few countries that has to deliver raw milk. The milk is processed in a bottle. Now Maag Hello has taken over the dairy industries and is hoping to make them work with a good profit. Here's the question. Is the chosen direction already secure and we know whether a new dairy industry will be built or whether restructuring will be limited to current industries, so that there is no need to build a new industry?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U49	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. I am quite frankly saying that I do not have the information right now on which dairy industries will be built by private businesses and which will be limited to restructuring. But I would certainly ask the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Minister of Rural Affairs to give you an overview of what they have at the moment. I hope they'll do it in the next few days.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U50	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U51	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! You mentioned in your second reply that you do not intend to allocate state budget money to the expansion of the two specific productivity support programmes recommended by the IMF. Do you even intend to allocate additional state budget resources for productivity-enhancing activities, or will your entire initiative be limited to setting up a Commission? As we know, it is difficult to achieve results without contributing money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U52	Thank you for this question. Now I have the opportunity to read to you this whole good, serious and meaningful economic programme of the government coalition, which provides mechanisms for supporting entrepreneurship to increase productivity. Since there are a lot of points, I could introduce them here for hours. You didn't mention one thing. I said several times that the Green Paper on Industrial Policy, which is included in our programme of action of the coalition, is the subject of this autumn. The deadline is September 2017. This does not mean that in the future this issue will be off the table. I also said that the situation in this Committee on Economic Development needs to be analysed. You asked whether this committee was our only step. Not the only one. The programme of the Government Coalition has a large number of measures to improve the business environment. What are these? I'll start with reasonable investments. Of course, I am not talking about money for fixed or running costs, but about infrastructure development, whether it be information technology, the construction of the last mile or a proper conference and tourism centre. It cannot be over or around that productivity also depends on our people's income, or wage growth. This is one of the main economic positions of the government coalition and, I would say, social policy positions as well. You see, the same tax-free minimum, which has been slightly increased by about 10 euros each year, is now increasing from 180 to 500 euros, or a whole of 320 euros. For a large number of people in Estonia, more than 66% of the population will receive an increase of 64 euros every month. Let us take this forward: the certain differences that we want to make in the business sector in order to contribute to its development, and the flagging of merchant ships into Estonia, which is certainly also an important objective. In the country's budget strategy, the principle of 20 million euros of support for different business sectors, different business sectors, has been included in the coalition negotiations in order to increase productivity. And, of course, our excise and VAT policies. For example, VAT did not increase from 1 January this year, although it had to rise, the same applies to excise duties on diesel. The examples of how the Social Democrats, the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Centre Party work every day to increase productivity are indeed very much. Thank you for this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U53	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You admitted in your answers that the Committee on Economic Development with the government is necessary and will be created, and that in the next few weeks you will make a decision if I understand correctly. Are you willing to anticipate events and tell us who the people who could belong to them, who have the necessary expertise and experience in business, and who, by generating ideas, can boost productivity throughout the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U55	This decision is not just about setting up one committee, but yes, in the coming weeks we want to make it. As I said, it is not the Commission, and that is it. There are government committees, and there are sub-committees and expert panels. They all have to work together. You asked who the subcommittees and the panel of experts would be. It's still open. We need to find very good specialists in our field who are willing to contribute. And there's plenty of them. As far as the government committee is concerned, it is clear that it includes ministers, i.e. members of the government. It should certainly include the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, the Minister for Education and Science, the Minister for Health and Labour, the Minister for Finance and the Prime Minister. These are the people who belong there. I think it is very important that there is also a Minister of Foreign Affairs there. After all, we are always saying that the contribution of foreign services to the development of Estonian entrepreneurship should be greater. And we are not getting over or around the legal framework, so there should also be a Minister of Justice in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U56	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! You said that there are many points in the coalition agreement that must promote productivity growth. However, I ask you to clarify what are the three points of the most important coalition agreement in your opinion, which specifically concern productivity increases.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U58	Thank you. I will certainly highlight investments, changes to the tax-free minimum, various differences in the business sector in order to support our companies in increasing productivity. You had a very specific question, I don't want to answer any further here. These are very briefly the three most important points.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U59	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U60	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister, I think it was very good that you pointed out that there were differences in the business sectors. It would be good if you would clarify the measures concerning the Estonian shipping sector. Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Simson has come up with a plan which, I hope, has also come about thanks to our pressure on the opposition. The aim is to promote the development of the shipping sector and bring more ships under the Estonian flag. Here's my question. Unfortunately, passenger ships feel a little left out, the proposed tax relief only concerns merchant ships, while, for example, Tallink pays the state a social tax of EUR 30 million per year. Do you see the need to provide incentives for the passenger ship sector to create some kind of tax advantage for them compared to our neighbouring countries, such as Latvia, where it has been done?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U61	Thank you for your question. The problem that Estonian cargo ships do not fly the flag of Estonia is no secret. However, Estonia is a maritime state. I do not dare say that all six groups think so, but I believe that most groups believe that this policy needs to be changed and that there are certain differences to be made here. This, too, shows that our political culture has changed greatly: all proposals, whatever group they come from, will be considered. Bringing cargo ships under the flag of Estonia is indeed a good and concrete example, but you asked about passenger ships. Yes, the focus has indeed been on merchant ships, but the aspect of passenger ships has also been on the table throughout this debate. How the negotiations with their umbrella organisation will be concluded at MKM will be revealed in the near future. But at least in the debate where I and other members of the government participated, this aspect was put on the table in the same way: if cargo ships get this chance, then passenger ships should not lose out. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U62	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U63	Thank you, Prime Minister. Your previous reply to Liina Kersna made me wonder if you really know exactly what this productivity of companies is. If this much-spoken tax exemption of yours is one of the most important drivers of companies' productivity, what does it really mean? In fact, this should mean that you say to entrepreneurs: don't raise any more wages, our tax change will give people extra euros anyway! Demand more results without spending on inputs! However, what should this tax exemption improve in terms of productivity? Are you sure you're talking about the right thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U64	Don't doubt it! As far as I know, you have graduated from Tallinn University of Technology in the field of public administration. So, what's productivity? I guess that's the easy thing to do for an employee, isn't it? But yes, I really think one component is, of course, income. I'm sure it is! Another very important component is innovation and the capacity to generate new production thanks to innovation. It's not just hitting one table. I also think that labour organisations are also very important. There are different aspects to be taken into account in terms of productivity.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U65	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Urmas Kruus, on behalf of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U66	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I think that Mr Aasa's question quite clearly shows how we like to call things by false names. All three things you called productivity are well-defined, but for your scheme, it could be said that it is a social programme in the ideological key. There are hardly any people in this Chamber who oppose people's incomes being increased. The question is how they grow. Experts have said that all of this can ensure short-term economic success, but linking it to productivity is rather difficult if it is not followed by specific innovative processes. But I came here to encourage you to increase productivity. When I asked about Tori's horse farm, I remembered that a good colleague, Mikhail Korb, once said in this hall that he trusted the Minister of Rural Affairs. In a way, he might agree with her, but he spoke it some time ago, and the minister he trusted is no longer in the government. It seems to me that you do not have such confidence in the proposals that the good Tarmo Tamm has presented to you in the government. I dare say, don't doubt Tarmo Tammes. He shares the countryside, and he's probably made some points clear to you. As regards the things you said that you still have to calculate and that it relates to the question of what form of work should be and who are the partners, they have actually been discussed. The business sector and local authorities have said yes. But I remember a literary expression from high school that if it wasn't in front of the woods. It seemed to me that in your answers there was a subtext for the idea that if Sven Sester wasn't in front of it, the question of Tori's horse farm would have been decided in principle. I dare you to suggest that you and Sven Sester and Tarmo Tamm could take this issue more seriously, as this would be a dignified contribution to both the Estonian cultural lock and the rural life. I very much hope that you will be equally supportive in your next decisions. So thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U67	Members of the Riigikogu do not wish to speak anymore, but the Prime Minister does. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U68	Good heirs! Good speaker! Don't tear one sentence out of context. I was talking about productivity, but I was also talking about innovation, which you mentioned when you talked about wage growth. It's definitely a component. As far as innovation is concerned, in terms of how much the public sector can contribute to innovation, the most important is the team that makes decisions that can work together and does not have good initiatives in the block. I assure you, the current government coalition is such a team. You don't want to bring out a government member here, finance minister Sven Sester. He is a very good Minister for Finance, a very important member of the government who will certainly contribute to resolving a lot of issues, including the issue of Tori's horse farm. He's not the one holding anything. I don't know what sense you had in your government, but I can't say for any minister that he's holding onto anything. Nobody's holding anything! The government makes collegial decisions and is currently committed to maintaining a strong pace for productivity gains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U69	I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U70	The next question is submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Kalle Laaneti, Heidy Purga, Maris Lauri, Liina Kersna, Aivar Sõerdi, Ants Laaneots, Urve Tiidus, Hanno Pevkuri, Jüri Jaanson and Arto Aasa. Arto Aas, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U71	Honourable Riigikogu! Our question has been made a long time ago, certainly things have progressed rapidly between now and now. The inquiry has already been handed over on 15 February this year. We handed it over on the day when Postimees wrote that hundreds of jobs would be filled with new people when they moved from the capital of institutions to the county towns. The Minister of State Administration Mikhail Korb plans to move 25 public institutions from the capital, including the Ministry of Education and Research, back to Tallinn from Tartu. It was read in this paper that the Minister had a vision that a very large number of public officials and public authorities would be removed from the capital. Some examples: the Social Insurance Board with nearly 150 employees should move to Paide, the EAS should move to Rakverre, the State Real Estate Company should move to Jõhvi, the Road Administration to Pärnu. The National Institute for Health Development and its 144 employees should move to Tartu with 118 employees. And there are also a number of state foundations and authorities that need to be moved away from the capital. In the meantime, certain developments have taken place, with this very spectacular vision and with the slogans of Urmas Reinsalu, there is not much left. Maybe it's for the best. The confusion surrounding the move of the National Defence Academy alone shows that it is worth much more than just trying to overdo the common sense. But in any case, we would like answers from the Minister on these developments. There are four questions in the question. If the minister doesn't consider it a lot, he'll read the questions for himself. It's the easiest way. We will then examine further questions that have taken place in quite recent days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U72	The question is answered by Mikhail Korb, Minister of Public Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U73	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Indeed, it has been a long time since the time of the request. I must say that this article by Postimees, to which the heirs refer in their inquiry, has been made somewhere in the Postimees' backroom and no official position has been expressed by either the Minister of State Administration or any employee of the Ministry of Finance. Let's just say that the Postman came across some draft material that was distributed like the last truth. There was no plan to cause confusion and panic in society, but it went as it did. It became the basis for a wide-ranging discussion. Really, time has moved on a little, but I didn't want to come before you until there was some clarity. That is why I delayed my response a little while the deadline for replying has not been exceeded and today's response is within time frames. Now I'll go to the questions, I'll be happy to answer. First of all, what analyses are the basis for the redeployment of state institutions, state foundations? " In June 2016, the Ministry of Finance prepared an analysis of the state's tasks, addressing the removal of institutions from the capital as one point. In addition, some aspects have been clarified for discussion in the government office in winter and spring 2017, including the views of different ministries. Another question is how the new regions plan to fill certain skills-intensive positions. The plan of the Government of the Republic is to remove about 1000 jobs from Tallinn. It is planned to transfer to each county centre a minimum of 30 to 50 posts. It doesn't seem like a very large number, so emotionally speaking, it doesn't seem like a very powerful change, but it certainly ensures that every county centre has the opportunity to hire people for specialist positions. There are also rooms where people can work. I noted that this is not a large number from Tallinn's point of view, while the change gives much more to the county centre, because in the counties the company is large already when there are 50-100 people working there. So the withdrawal of 50 posts from the capital to some of the county centres is quite an achievement, and the achievement also in the light of the fact that in the course of the reform of rural governments and local authorities, quite a number of good specialists will be unemployed. One way to give them a job is to offer a place in such a transferred institution. However, the practice shows that if institutions are moved elsewhere, some employees will still remain in their posts. However, they do not normally exceed 25 to 30%. The third question: 'When are the plans to start the removal of state agencies from Tallinn and what is the final date for the completion of the plan? " We bound our plans with the deadline of 1 March 2019. All removals from Tallinn must take place in the next two years, i.e. by the end of the cycle that the government has concluded in view of the coalition agreement. Apparently, the first institutions will be relocated this year. However, the government has agreed that within the next two months, ministries will carry out a more accurate analysis and by 31 May, the Ministry of Finance, which is curating all activities, will present its understanding of the institutions that are leaving the capital on the basis of a timetable. After 31 May, this plan can be introduced to the government as well as to you and the public. The last question: 'It turns out from the article that there are no plans to take public authorities to certain counties, cities. Why is such a choice made? " Once again, the article is based on conjecture. It doesn't reflect accurate information. At government level, it has been agreed that 30 to 50 jobs will be transferred to each county, and I hope that these plans will remain in place. Four key questions have been answered, I am also ready to respond to further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U74	Questions. Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U75	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. This morning you were on Estonian Television, where you announced that all rural governments would be abolished and that the so-called state houses would be created in each county. Each state building should begin to perform all the functions necessary for the county. Could you explain more about this project? Why, after all, liquidate the governments of the country and put the state houses to work in their place? The second question: with whom can these state buildings be manned? The people of the county governments actually lose their jobs when the state officials of the capital go there. How does your system foresee all this? And are these state buildings public authorities or some kind of county units?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U76	Thank you for your question. That's the right question, but these three things are unrelated. It is one thing to take 1,000 jobs out of Tallinn, and here we are talking about, say, one agency. The liquidation of rural governments is the second project, which is separate from the other two. From the point of view of rural governments, we are talking about the abolition of institutions that currently perform certain functions. The number of these functions is small on the one hand, and large on the other, but these are specific functions. These include the organisation of public transport in the county, the registration of marriages and births, the development of the county and the supervision of local authorities. These activities are divided between the state and local authorities. It is not quite right to link the establishment of state buildings with the abolition of rural governments, because the project of state buildings is a completely separate project, the idea of which is to create a place in county centres where a citizen can communicate with the state through a single window. The idea of the state building is rather to bring together all the institutions located in the county centre. For example, in Viljandi there is a service office of the Road Administration and Police and Border Guard Board, Labour Inspectorate Office, Social Insurance Board and Health Board. All these bodies shall be represented on the spot. The idea is to concentrate all the offices of national agencies in the county centre in a single building. Yeah, in some counties, it's a county government house that might be empty after the country government's gone. But the idea is, a citizen comes into one house and gets all his services in this one place. However, when we talk about removing 1000 jobs from Tallinn, it is a separate plan that does not concern these two projects.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U77	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I think the idea of taking jobs to county centres is right in itself, but I doubt that it can be done as a campaign as it has been advertised here. But my question is about the roles of rural governments. How will these roles be divided between the county centres and the capital city, perhaps Tartu as well? The Prime Minister answered the above question by saying that the various functions, be they educational supervision or planning issues, were more likely to move to central authorities, or ministries. Isn't that completely contrary to the ideology you are currently representing?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U79	That is a very correct question. As far as supervisory functions are concerned, this work is still being carried out by ministries quite a lot now. For example, they control the work of educational, social and other institutions. It will certainly be the case that the person who supervises the institution in Võru or Põlva does not work in Tallinn or anywhere else far away. The regional dimension will remain in force after the reform. This issue was a separate debate in the cabinet, and all ministers have a clear understanding that regional policy is very important, and most of the officials who move from the county government to a ministry or office are trying to leave them in the county centre so that they can continue living there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U80	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, You said that you could move to any county centre 30 to 50 new jobs. I'll ask you more about Võru County. What is the vision, which jobs could move to the Võru area?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U82	Indeed, there is a minimum of 30 to 50 jobs that have been agreed at government level. I can give you an overview of which specific agencies or specific posts move to one place or another after 31 May, when all ministries have taken stock of their area of administration and notified which county centres which posts move to. It is a little early today to talk about it; it is not yet possible to link specific institutions to specific places. That's gonna be clear in a couple of months.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U83	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is more of a question of grounding. 1000 government jobs from Tallinn and perhaps also from Tartu should definitely encourage local people to turn to you and make suggestions. How many of these proposals have been made by counties and municipalities, Minister Korb? Why don't you fill me in on how active or inactive local people are from this point of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U85	Thank you for your question. I recognise that local government leaders and other residents have made very active proposals to transfer one institution or another to one place or another. At all meetings with the heads of government, I have heard opinions that could move to some place. For example, such proposals have been made in Haapsalu, and Järvamaa meeting also asked for a number of agencies to be transferred to Paide or Tapa. A couple of proposals have been made at each meeting to bring one or the other institution to our county centre. The counties of South Estonia have also been very active. If you want to know the exact number, I can't tell you that right now. But I assure you, people are very sympathetic to this project.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U86	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U87	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I will go further than Mrs Tiidus's question in particular. For example, have you thought that the headquarters of the Maritime Administration and perhaps Estonian Maritime Academy and TS Ships could be moved to Saare County? I mean everything that has to do with the sea. The competence of shipbuilding would then be concentrated in one county. I understand that Mr. Nestor is shaking his head, he'd like to get something for Hiiumaa, but we're talking about Saaremaa right now. How do you answer that question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U88	I will answer this question very positively: everything that relates to the sea may be in Saaremaa and Hiiumaa. However, this project considered only the future of government institutions in the light of the jobs in foundations or agencies. An analysis of which state companies could take to the county centres will also follow. You also mentioned a state company. We asked for six months for further analysis, and then we can come up with some conclusions. All the institutions that you mentioned would be good to move from Tallinn to one place or another, but I repeat, above all, we rely on good cooperation with the ministries that are curating these areas. In particular, they bear all the responsibilities involved, including the financial burden associated with this project. We do not want to put pressure on anyone and make things compulsory; we hope to achieve the objective of friendly and benevolent cooperation. But every institution that has left Tallinn certainly serves regional policy interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U89	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U90	Thank you. We didn't get very specific answers. Looks like we're gonna have to ask for a new question, then you can come back here in two months, and it'll put pressure on you to make your decisions. The current situation is much the same as the previous government at the end of last summer. I kindly warn you about the risk that if, now, the county governments close quickly on 1 January 2018 and do nothing to replace it, the number of jobs in the regions will be reduced. If your plan is to take these 1000 jobs to the regions only by March 2019, we will rather see a negative trend. But how do you assess: if you create 30 more jobs in one region with 30,000 inhabitants, what is the economic impact?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U91	If you're gonna hand over another question, I'd be happy to take it. As far as my assessment is concerned, it is difficult to give now. 30000 inhabitants versus 30 jobs are a relative comparison. However, if there are 80 jobs in the largest company in such a large county, the removal of one such company from Tallinn does not seem to be drastic. As far as job losses are concerned, during the reform of rural governments, we have been in contact with quite a number of state institutions that are represented in the counties, such as the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund and the Police and Border Guard Board. It turns out that good qualified professionals are missing in rural areas and these agencies are happy to employ people who want to be in public service and work for the good of the state. It seems that the painting lacks good specialists rather than too much. I believe that all people who wish to continue to work in rural areas will be able to apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U92	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your answers. The People's Culture Centre is planned to move to Viljandi. People currently working at the Folk Culture Centre every day are very concerned about how well it has been analysed that the good work of this centre will continue in Viljandi. They are also concerned that this plan has not been discussed with the people who are currently working there. It's always the easiest thing to win people over when they're being nicely negotiated with the people involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U94	Thank you. I'm sure the thought you put forward is very important and very good. But this proposal was received from the Ministry of Culture, i.e. the Ministry of Culture specifically proposed the idea of taking this institution out of Tallinn. It wasn't specifically said that Viljandi, but yes, they probably mean Viljandi. Bringing to Viljandi is probably also considered because quite a number of cultural institutions already exist there and the aim is to promote their cooperation. I'm assuming the Ministry of Culture is communicating and talking to these people and trying to relieve the tensions that such a move creates. But I repeat, this was primarily a proposal from the Ministry of Culture. What they do in their own way, I have no right to comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U95	No further questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I'll close the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U96	We are already at the fourth inquiry by Jaak Madison, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild. On behalf of the heirs, Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U97	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the EKRE Group, I will introduce a few words of inquiry to Mr Anvelt, Minister for the Interior, which was handed over in February. The subject is non-compliance with the immigration limit. The statistics you sent in response to our written question show that there is a large difference between the number of third-country nationals who first arrived in Estonia in 2016 (3828), the immigration limit (1317) and the total number of temporary residence permits issued (6711). In this regard, we have a number of questions. Why is there an immigration limit when the actual number of immigrants is several times higher? Why are people who come from a country based on study visas who complete their studies and apply for a residence permit on other grounds not covered by an internal migration quota? Why are people who have already been refused because of the quota in previous years excluded from the limit? Do you think it is in line with the legislator's will that the immigration quota be exceeded five to six times a year, by way of so-called exceptions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U98	Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U99	Good President of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I answer the question of compliance with the limit value for internal migration. With your permission, I'm gonna ask you a question, and then I'm gonna answer it so you'd better watch. The first question: 'Why has the country set an immigration limit if the actual number of immigrants is several times higher than the threshold? ' The immigration limit has been established in the Aliens Act since its first version in 1993. Until now, the number of immigrants must not exceed 0.1% of the Estonian permanent population per year. The limit on immigration is set by the Government of the Republic, taking into account the proposals of local governments. In individual cases, the Government of the Republic may exceed the immigration limit for the benefit of a particular person, but only at the expense of the next year's limit. At the same time as setting the immigration limit, the legislator has provided exceptions in § 115 of the Aliens Act for foreigners who are not covered by the immigration limit and whose arrival in Estonia is encouraged. These include scientists, lecturers, students, investors, etc. Regardless of the immigration limit and the number of people who do not fall under the limit, the presence of foreigners in Estonia may also be linked to a specific job that cannot be filled with Estonian residents. If the alien's residence in Estonia falls away and there is no legal basis for his or her further stay in Estonia, the alien must leave Estonia. I consider it necessary to stress here that, regardless of the immigration limit, § 36 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia lays down the right of an Estonian to settle in Estonia and the right of an Estonian citizen to settle in Estonia unhindered. If an Estonian citizen cannot return to Estonia solely because his or her third-country national's spouse needs a residence permit, but the immigration limit is full, this may prevent the Estonian citizen from returning to Estonia. According to Article 21 of the Treaty on European Union, citizens of the European Union and their family members do not fall within the immigration limit because free movement within the European Union is one of the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the Treaty on European Union, which also extends to Estonian citizens when moving in other countries of the European Union. Aliens and their family members who have received protection in Estonia under the Act granting international protection are also excluded from the immigration limit. The second question: 'Why do people who have entered the country on the basis of study visas, who complete their studies and apply for a residence permit on other grounds, not qualify for an immigration quota? ' Foreigners who have been granted a residence permit for study and who apply for a residence permit on other grounds are excluded from the immigration limit under § 115 (11) of the Aliens Act. Foreigners will also be granted a residence permit to study outside the limit of a residence permit provided for in § 115 (4) of the Aliens Act. Foreigners who have studied and graduated from a higher education institution in Estonia have already, to a certain extent, integrated into society and the state has also contributed to their education. The legislator has therefore found it useful to use their potential to develop the Estonian economy instead of accepting new foreigners into Estonia. We are talking here about young people and qualified people who can make a long contribution to the development of society. A similar simplification, allowing an alien graduates to stay in the country for work or return to the country for work purposes, is also applied by many other countries, such as Finland, Austria, Germany, the Netherlands and France. In addition, I note that the European Commission's report on the directive on mobility has concluded that Member States could individually address third-country students' access to jobs after the completion of their studies, as this seems to be a determining factor for young people in the choice of the country of destination and is a matter of common interest in a situation characterised by a decline in the working age population and a shortage of qualified workers. The Competitiveness Plan "Estonia 2020" foresees that more opportunities must be created and cooperation between the state, entrepreneurs and higher education institutions should be supported for professionally run and good practice organisation during studies, including opportunities for internships for foreign students to encourage and support talent policy and the retention of top specialists in Estonia after the completion of studies. Foreign students must be given opportunities to start working in the chosen field of study in Estonia. The report of the Working Group on Economic Development, published last year, 2016 has a number of recommendations on how to get a skilled workforce from abroad in Estonia. One of the proposals was to increase the involvement of foreigners studying in Estonia and to remove obstacles to remaining in Estonia. The third question: 'Why are people excluded from the immigration limit, whose application was already out of the quota of the previous year (t) which resulted in certain groups being excluded from the immigration limit of the year to year? ' Those foreigners who are outside the immigration limit are mentioned in the Aliens Act. If the immigration limit for the current year is fulfilled, no more residence permits shall be granted to foreigners who are members of the limit. Thus, foreigners, including employers, will have to wait for the new year when a new immigration limit will apply. The immigration limit was not fully fulfilled before 2016. In 2016 the limit was reached on 14 December. As the limit was reached by the end of the year, the Police and Border Guard Board extended the deadline for processing residence permits for persons to whom it had decided to grant a residence permit. These foreigners received their residence permits in 2017, when a new immigration limit was already in force. The fourth and final question: 'Do you think it is in line with the legislator's will that the immigration quota be exceeded five to six times a year under the name of exceptions? ' § 113 (1) of the Aliens Act states that the number of foreigners moving to Estonia is limited to the immigration limit. However, § 115 of the same Act contains a list of categories that are not counted under the immigration limit. The legislator has therefore confirmed both the limit number and the exceptions for foreigners who do not fall under the limit number. The amendments to the Aliens Act adopted in 2017 also excluded foreigners, large investors and foreigners engaged in start-ups and start-ups from the immigration limit. This is stated in paragraphs 14, 15, 16 and 17 of § 115 of the Aliens Act. These exceptions have been made by the legislator in the interests of Estonia's social and economic development and are implemented only in accordance with the law in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U100	Questions for the Minister. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U101	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You stressed throughout the round of answers that, as a general rule, immigrants are people who contribute or start to contribute to the economy, and I mean to create added value for students. In this regard, I have a question. Should the government not be more serious about giving immigrants the opportunity to contribute to our national economy, but how to give our own highly qualified specialists the opportunity to work in Estonia, so that they contribute to the national economy of Estonia, not of the richer countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U102	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! That is the very right question, and the government is working on it as well. But life has shown that if we are talking about the completion of both the places of study in the field of information and communication technology and the jobs that require it, Estonian specialists would not be enough even if we increased the capacity of our universities several times. There are many specialties that are very much required in a rapidly changing world, and these positions can often only be filled by asking talent to come to work in Estonia, even for a limited period of time, to help Estonian companies produce more added value.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U103	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U104	Thank you. Last year nearly 9,000 people migrated to Estonia, with 6,000 of them mainly investors and professors from Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, etc. At the same time, 5800 people left Estonia. At this rate of development, we will soon remain a minority nation in our own country. Immigration is made so easy that you can live and work here with a tourist body. The Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior under your leadership recently said that we are working to increase immigration. Is it really your goal that immigration will increase and more people will leave Estonia, and that the national composition of our country will become permanent?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U105	Uno Kaskpeit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U106	I'm not going to tell you the exact number right now, so I'm sure we'll specify it, and then we'll let you know. But I can tell you that we have 1513 in the family migration system, which makes 22.5% of immigrants. This, however, concerns not only Estonian citizens, but also those who have come here under quota or have been released from quota. The proportion of spouses of Estonian citizens can certainly be specified. I'll send you a separate response.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U107	Thank you. A very important question. I am also very interested that the national composition of the Estonian nation state does not change in such a way that Estonians remain in the minority. But it is certainly the fact that the growing economy here, too, requires more and more hard work. I will stick to the fact that a closed nation state will certainly not be able to produce the added value necessary for the development of its culture and its people, so that the Estonian nation state will survive. I wouldn't be so critical. Let's take this number. You said that 9,000 people arrived in Estonia in 2016. In fact, this is the number 6711 that I have here on paper, showing how many people migrated to Estonia. It must also be taken into account that, among the 5,000 you mentioned, there are a great many foreigners - people who have worked here for years, who have come from abroad and have finally left here. Among the people leaving is not only Estonian citizens or people living in Estonia with a long-term residence permit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U108	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! You noted the large number of foreign spouses of Estonian citizens. So it's gotta be really big when it needs to be mentioned here. Hence my question: how many percent of the immigration limit was made up of foreign spouses of Estonian citizens?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U109	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U110	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Interestingly, the Estonian media have very different data about the number of immigrants. I have indeed met the number over 9,000, and about 3,000 of them should be the ones who have returned, who are Estonians. So there's still over 6,000 strangers. But the question is: do you know where these large investors have put their money? Is there any data on these areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U111	I'm sure that data is there. In which projects and on which basis these same major investors have contributed and how many there have been, we can send you this overview separately, as much information as the Ministry of the Interior has. In fact, it is the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications that has the information about investments and other information about how much added value has been added to Estonia. But all the information that the Minister of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior have, we will be sure to pass it on to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U112	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U113	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Here's the question. As compared to the previous government, has the current government already planned or planned any additional measures to encourage return migration?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U114	This question was also addressed by Nation Council Helme, if I am not mistaken, because there have been quite a lot of questions here, and the Prime Minister also noted this when he answered the first or second question. I listened to it on my cell phone and didn't notice all the details. But these measures are being dealt with in themselves. I will, for example, bring start-ups and people who deal with them. Estonia is one of the best in this area. I recently visited Silicon Valley and met hundreds of Estonians there. They are doing a good job there, but several of them are ready to return to Estonia sooner or later. If I am not mistaken, the bill on the movement of parcel robots, initiated by your esteemed assembly and strongly supported by the Ministry of the Interior, has also launched the start-up company of Estonians there in the distant Silicon Valley. If I'm not mistaken, Allan Martinson set this thing in motion. Any legislative initiative that allows innovative opportunities to be used in Estonia in the same way as many European countries and the United States of America brings back our good and talented people who have left here to collect knowledge and perhaps capital to use it all sooner or later in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U115	Honourable Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. If you want, I'll open negotiations. That's what you want. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U116	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! People's ambassadors! This is a very serious issue. This is a very serious issue because demographic processes are long-term and cumulative. This situation, in which we are now, reflects the state of play. If we look at the birth rates and project them for ten and twenty years, we'll get a very true picture of where we're going. If we look at the migration figures in a similar cumulative way, we will get a more accurate picture than the one we are at the moment. Let me give you a very simple example. We all share so much mathematics that we can do the following calculation: if we have about 5 000 immigrants coming from the territory of the former Soviet Union each year, whether they come under any exception or quota, then by multiplying by 10, we get 50,000 immigrants after 10 years. It's a big city like Pärnu! Can we afford the luxury of hosting people from other cultures and other language spaces in Pärnu for ten years to live permanently in Estonia? It's a serious question, it's not just a joke. We heard from the answers that we needed highly educated specialists. These highly educated specialists give us, among other things, our university system, where we invite hundreds and thousands of people to study abroad each year. I spent 14 years teaching international relations at a university, including English and Russian groups. I can tell you that the qualifications of these students were often extremely low. These people were often almost illiterate. I do not understand how many of these students had become students at all. The only explanation is that they paid tuition fees and were matriculated as students. These students wrote such a coursework that in a good case it was the use of copy-pastes, in a bad case it was not even that. To mention that these thousands of students are starting to take us forward as highly educated professionals in the field of economics is simply nonsense. That's not true. At the same time, we train our own fellow nationalists and our fellow country professionals, who are often very diligent and indeed very good and write very good class and graduation papers, but they leave Estonia. We spend money to train specialists in countries richer than us, such as Finland. Once again: one of my own children is a doctor in Finland and I fully understand him because he gets a higher salary than he gets in Estonia. He intends to return to Estonia, but that is the intention. We do not know what will happen in five years or ten years, because demographic processes are long-term. As has been said, the majority of immigrants do not come to us from the European Union, nor do they come as refugees, as immigrants from the Third World, even though these processes are also remarkable and must not be excluded from the scope of the former Soviet Union. This puts us under very serious pressure as the majority nation of this country, but even more into the Estonian language space in certain parts of Estonia. We can see in Tallinn that the Estonian language space has not grown in 25 years, which Estonia has re-independenced, not growing, but staggering... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U117	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U118	...or even a cancer course. This is one of the damage that we suffer because of the migration processes. It has repeatedly been said that our growing economy needs more labour. Our growing economy has grown by a percentage or a percentage and a half in recent years. This is not the kind of growth that would require a mass labour force. All the more so as, as we have already pointed out, a large proportion of immigrants do not represent highly qualified people who are willing and able to work in areas where we really do lack labour, such as IT. Major investors were also mentioned. No big investors come to Estonia by thousands. It's a good thing you can count them on the fingers of two hands. These people, of course, do not affect the cultural, linguistic or demographic situation here. Of course they're welcome, of course there could be more. But there is no point in giving them an example if there is any need to illustrate the law of large numbers here. Also, as a general rule, when we talk about demographic processes, we are left with the emphasis on innovation, the emphasis on productivity growth, the re-training of a potential resource for the workforce, which will help us to address the shortage of working or brains in certain areas in the economy. I believe that more should be said about this and that we should act on it rather than trying to bring in a new workforce. In our party's programme, the need to establish a national agency for return migration has been highlighted very clearly in order to bring home the people of Estonia who create wealth in the national economies of other countries. Young people who have graduated from schools in Finland, Germany, Great Britain or somewhere else and who have been educated there could come to apply their knowledge and skills to our Estonian economy. They are still our national companions, an integral part of our cultural space and would strengthen our economic, national and cultural image. These are, in our view, issues that will be raised in this context. We thank the Minister for his answers, but we think that both the Ministry of the Interior, the Government and the Riigikogu have a great deal to discuss on this subject and a lot of practical steps to take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U119	There are no more requests for speech and the Minister does not wish to make a final statement either. Let's stop answering the fourth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U120	The next item is the inquiry submitted on 20 February by Aivar Sõerdi, Arto Aasa, Urve Tiidus, Taavi Rõivas, Hanno Pevkuri, Kalle Palling, Remo Holsmer, Toomas Kivimägi, Jüri Jaanson and Deniss Borodichi, concerning the impact on the state budget of the possible cancellation of an additional increase in alcohol duty. It's number 319. On behalf of the heirs, Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, This inquiry has been made in the light of the fact that Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise stated on 17 February that an additional increase in excise duty on alcohol is contrary to the Constitution as it violates the principle of legitimate expectations. According to the Chancellor of Justice, the Act amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and other laws adopted at the end of last year must be brought into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The Riigikogu was able to initiate a legislative amendment within 20 days in order to resolve the constitutional situation. The Riigikogu did not do this. The Chancellor of Justice had the right to refer such a case to the Supreme Court and it is known that he has done so. If further increases in alcohol duty are to be lifted in the forthcoming legal proceedings, then the question of the state budget will inevitably arise. Of course, the judgment is not known in advance, but we hope that it will be made quickly before these increases in excise duty take effect on 1 July. The government association published the budgetary changes to the economic and fiscal policy programme agreed in November last year and showed that additional expenditure of EUR 48 million and EUR 237 million was foreseen in the budget for 2017 and 2018 respectively. These costs were covered by fiscal policy measures and one important measure was the additional increase in the same lean alcohol excise duty. The effect of this was to generate additional tax revenue of EUR 25 million in the state budget this year and of EUR 58 million in the following year. So are our questions. When an additional commitment is made by the State, the primary task of the Minister of Finance is to tell which sources they will be covered. We ask what fiscal policy measures the Minister of Finance envisages covering additional costs in order to replace EUR 25 million and EUR 58 million from the increase in alcohol duty if these amounts are not collected. There are also questions about other articles in the table of budgetary policy implications. One of them is the additional revenue to the budget for 2018 resulting from the postponement of this increase in alcohol duty. This amount is also quite large, EUR 27 million. The question is whether this article will also be affected if the Court cancels the increases in excise duties. In addition, it has appeared that some categories of expenditure have been underestimated in the revenue and expenditure table for budgetary policy measures. For example, the impact of the tax exemption increase had initially been estimated at EUR 139 million, but later the Committee on Monetary Affairs was presented with an analysis showing that this cost is much higher: EUR 147 million. The government union has dealt with the fact that it has withdrawn some of its earlier plans and implemented them in a new form. One example is the car tax, which must be called an environmental protection fee, although it has nothing to do with the environment or the levy. There was also an initial plan to tax every change in ownership for the sale of vehicles, but the new version provides for the first registration of new vehicles and the first exchange of older vehicles. Here comes the fiscal impact. We are also asking about the fact that the government has a lot of tax schemes, how about them. And, of course, we must finally ask whether the government union is willing to give up some of the grand promises recorded in the coalition agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U122	The addressee of this inquiry is Sven Sester, Minister of Finance of the Republic of Estonia. The President of the sitting has a suggestion that the Minister will also read out a specific question, because we will also be monitored by means which are not in front of the printed text. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I will, of course, make an introduction, and before answering every question, I will also read the question. Things must be understandable to all parties involved. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I will answer your questions arising from the opinion issued by the Chancellor of Justice on 17 February that the additional increases in alcohol duty are in conflict with the Constitution. Before that, I will give an overview of developments that have taken place since the Chancellor of Justice's assessment was published and of the main reasons why the Government has not accepted the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. Firstly, the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity contains a reservation to change the rates of excise duty. Under § 8512 of the Act, excise duties may change before they enter into force. Under this section, an undertaking should not have a legitimate expectation that the rates will be maintained at the level originally envisaged. Secondly, the view that it is not possible to change the tax ladder that has been in force before, even with due regard for a sufficient period of notice, significantly limits the financial competence of the Riigikogu, or yours, and does not comply with the principles of democracy. However, the new government and, consequently, the Riigikogu have the right to change previous decisions. The amendment adopted on 19 December 2016 is not comparable to the legal solution for environmental law fees. I can stop at that separately if you want. The Chancellor of Justice turned to the Supreme Court on this issue on 16 March, where, among other things, the position must be formed as to whether the public interest, or better protection of public health, by reducing alcohol consumption, outweighs the legitimate expectations of economic operators. The objective of permanently reducing alcohol consumption per capita of less than 8 litres, as set out in the Green Paper on alcohol policy, is also known to companies involved in the working group on alcohol policy development. Now I will answer your questions specifically. The first question: 'It is the duty of the Minister for Finance to say that, if the State makes additional financial commitments, which financial sources will cover these additional costs. What tax policy measures does the Minister of Finance envisage covering additional costs in order to replace additional excise duties on alcohol in the national budget in 2017 and 2018 with EUR 25 million and EUR 58 million not collected? ' The State undertakes additional financial commitments responsibly and on the basis of the budgetary balance requirement laid down in the basic state budget law. At present, the government is taking into account the increase in excise duties on alcohol planned for 2017 and 2018. If this is necessary due to the decision of the Supreme Court, the government will review tax policy measures and other sources of coverage in the context of the normal process of preparing the budget and the state budget strategy and will continue to adhere to conservative fiscal policy principles that comply with the fiscal rules. The second question: 'The table of budgetary policy implications of the Government's Union provides for an additional contribution to the budget for 2018 in view of delaying the increase in alcohol duty in February. The additional revenue from this measure is estimated at EUR 27 million. In the event that further increases in excise duties are abolished, should this amount also be deleted from the impact table or reduced? ' The table of budgetary policy implications of the government's association shows an additional revenue of EUR 27 million to the budget for 2018 in connection with the postponement of the increase in alcohol duty. Even before the conclusion of the coalition agreement, the increase in alcohol duty imposed by the earlier governments by law was 10% as from 1 January 2018. Each increase in excise duty rates is preceded by the stocking of products with a lower rate of excise duty in storage. The practice of recent years shows that the main source of alcohol is strong. We have predicted that the quantity to be mobilised corresponds to the three-month average quantity declared for the declaration of spirits. According to current practice, beer has not been obtained in particular before the increase in excise duties. Stocks have been equal to the quantities declared for about half a month. The increase in excise duties on additional beer will certainly increase. Question 3: 'There are other changes to the table of budgetary policy implications of the Government Union in addition to alcohol excise duties. Thus, the Ministry of Finance has already announced that the impact of tax-free income reform at 139 million euros is underestimated and the cost is higher. 12.12.2016 The analysis submitted to the Committee on Monetary Affairs revealed that the cost of tax-free income reform is higher, with a new estimate of EUR 147 million. It is also very positive that the government union is increasingly retreating from the previously declared fiscal nonsense. The last example is the withdrawal of car tax on any change in ownership. We ask whether the Riigikogu would be able to see an updated and updated impact table? ' All numerical impact assessments of changes in the government's budget policy table, adopted in the form of a law, are included in the explanatory notes to the relevant laws. That's the latest published official information on them. Each economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance assesses the impact of the measures put into effect in line with the best current knowledge and the forecast of the changed macroeconomic indicators. The spring 2017 economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance will be published in the first half of April. The amendments that have not yet been adopted as legal provisions are set out together with the impact assessments in the National Budget Strategy 2018 to 2021. Question 4: "Does the government association have plans to introduce a new tax on motor vehicles, sweetened beverages, pawn tax, packaging excise and bank tax, in addition to what has been planned so far, as well as to cover a number of sources of revenue in the table of budgetary policy effects? " The government has not taken decisions that would significantly change the fiscal policy choices agreed in the Coalition Agreement. The agreed drafts are in progress and will also reach the Riigikogu. The government's aim is to pay more attention to reducing labour taxes. By lowering labour taxes, the tax burden is passed on to consumption, vices and the environment. Our goal is to leave more money in the hands of the low and middle earners than their wages. Question 5: "Is the Government Union prepared to give up some of the commitments in the coalition agreement that increase the costs in order not to overtake the state's commitments? " The government does not intend to take over the country's responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U124	Aivar Sõerd asks the Minister the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your answers. But I'd still like to clarify a few things. First of all, as I understand it, the government doesn't have a plan for a court-martial decision that doesn't fit the government's union. No plan! But if you are currently drawing up a national budget strategy, shouldn't there be some kind of risk scenario, as it usually is there? What happens if the court cancels the rise in the tax on lean alcohol and the budget disappears from a large source of revenue?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U126	Thank you, good questioner! I'll start from a distance. First of all, should the excise duty rate on lean alcohol be increased prematurely or not? I think it is certainly a subject of debate, but I understand that the Riigikogu took a position on this issue when it came into force last year. According to my understanding, the Riigikogu has stated that if this increase was not premature, alcohol, especially lean alcohol, would become cheaper for people over time because our incomes are increasing. That's one. Now, the main content of your question was whether any risk scenarios should not be discussed in the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy. You have also been Minister of Finance yourself, and you will remember that, after all, it has not been too long, about ten years, which is the difference between the state budget and the state budget strategy. The state budget shall be based on all revenue and all expenditure provided for by law. The state budget cannot set targets whose main direction is not in place. The country's budgetary strategy, which is drawn up for four years, is based on all policy orientations. If the government sees any movement in the coming years, let's assume that there is no tax policy movement either way, but the bill does not yet exist, then this is already taken into account in the strategy, assuming that this is the political direction. Then you'll take it in the picture at some point. But I assure you: true story, there is no reason at present to base any other scenario, because the government and also the Riigikogu are of the opinion that the Riigikogu is competent to take decisions on alcohol excise duties. Moreover, the six-month rule has been taken into account. The amendment decided in December will be introduced not from 1 January but from 1 July. In this sense, everything should be legitimate. The Riigikogu should have the right to take such decisions. No one knows what the Supreme Court's decision will be. True, the judgment of the Supreme Court may be such that this so-called tax ladder is not legal and the decision needs to be amended. This decision should come in theory, as you yourself know, before 1 July and then it will be possible to make the necessary corrections in the state budget so that the law meets the requirements of the basic law. I answered for a long time, but I tried to explain all aspects.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U127	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You said that your aim is to lower taxes on labour and to tax more harmful consumption. Against this background, I wonder which objective is the introduction of a bank tax. Is the consumption of banking services harmful or is it in any way particularly favourable to the lowering of labour taxes?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U129	We're now inclined to a slightly wider area of questions-answers, but I don't mind. I like to discuss all matters relating to state taxation, state budget and economic policy decisions, so there is no question. I told you before, we're not just talking about vices, we're talking about different nuances about vices, but also about the environment and consumption. These are different contexts which also play a role in reducing work-related taxes and tax neutrality. These are different types of taxes, which we have looked at one direction and the other with the aim of reducing labour taxes. It is certainly not right to say that banking is certainly not a vice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U130	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U131	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! I'm going to ask you a more general question. The institution of the Chancellor of Justice is well-known in order, among other things, to carry out and develop the monitoring of constitutionality in an in-depth manner. That's what they do very thoroughly. If the Chancellor of Justice comes up with an argument that the treatment of businesses is a violation of the Constitution, I believe that there are very serious reasons behind it. How sure are you that the Supreme Court may be a decision that does not support the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice? And what risk could there be if his opinion was supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U132	Thank you, good question. I have no doubt that the Chancellor of Justice's opinions are serious. Of course it is! But they are certainly not final. Otherwise, there wouldn't be a court, then the Chancellor of Justice's opinion would be final. In this sense, I support the two-handed view that the judicial system guarantees the best legal practice. Perhaps the Riigikogu is wrong, perhaps the Chancellor of Justice is wrong. In time, let us look at the proposals raised on the table by the Chancellors of Justice on various topics, starting with the so-called "two chairs" law, raised by Allar Jõks! I think it was him, but I might be wrong. At the same time, the Chancellors of Justice have also expressed opposing views on the various laws and some of them have not been approved by the Court. But certainly the court is the final instance who tells whether or not it is the right decision of the Riigikogu. I think that's what you and I are looking forward to. You ask what gives the government confidence or what are those aspects that could increase the likelihood of the Riigikogu acting correctly. The government was also asked about the change and the government informed the Riigikogu that it seems to be in line with the Constitution. I'll make a few arguments. First of all, this long-named law on alcohol, tobacco, etc. This law contains reservations to change the rates of excise duty. The same § 8512 provides for a special scheme whereby it is possible to change the rates of excise duty legally fixed for a given period without violating the principle of legitimate expectations. This ensures, on the one hand, compliance with the principle of democracy, according to which legislation must not unduly restrict future changes due to past choices made by the legislator. On the other hand, citizens can shape their lives, taking into account the legal clause that an additional increase in excise duty may take place if the Government of the Republic has submitted a proposal to the Riigikogu based on a proper analysis. This is one example. The question is whether or not the previously established tax ladder can be changed. The position of the Chancellor of Justice is that it is not possible to change the tax ladder, not even with sufficient notice. So far, both the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu have taken the view that this significantly limits the financial competence of the Riigikogu and does not comply with the principles of democracy. I stress: even with sufficient notice, no change must be made! To put it simply: one government takes up and puts the tax ladder in place for ten years, and the adjutant, it is not possible to deal with it any more. It doesn't make any sense! After all, it is not the next day, but in six months, that the new order is to be established. A nice six-month rule has been taken into account. This is another example. There are also references to the Environmental Charges Act, on which the Chancellor of Justice once took a stand and in which the Supreme Court found that the law is not correct. We are of the opinion that the so-called excise and environmental tax laws are not comparable in one way or another. The Chancellor of Justice has compared these cases and found that they are different. In particular, the difference is that these are different companies whose legitimate expectations are being violated. Mining is a much more resource-intensive business sector than the production and sale of alcohol. Mining permits and authorisations for specific use of water are fixed-term, based on pre-defined rates and of much greater importance. In this way, the interference with legitimate expectations is much stronger in changing rates. So I'm sure you can't tie these cases one by one. There are a number of other factors at stake, according to which the position of the Riigikogu and the government is believed to be legitimate and justified. But of course, the Supreme Court has the right to a final decision; he will consider all the arguments. We can't say anything to the Supreme Court. We can defend our positions, we can explain what we think is based on. The Supreme Court will finally make a decision. I will say it again, which is certainly important. Why, for example, is a further increase in the excise duty on strong alcohol not planned? Because strong alcohol doesn't cheapen over time, lean alcohol gets cheaper. You might ask why. The reason is very simple: if you increase the excise duty on strong alcohol by 10%, the price of the final product will practically increase by 7%. If the excise duty on lean alcohol is increased by 10%, the price of the final product will only increase by 2%. So over time, lean alcohol becomes relatively cheaper. However, the Green Papers and all the wise health professionals say that alcohol should not be cheapened.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U133	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In replying to the question, you stressed several times that the Ministry of Finance is following a number of impact factors very closely with regard to the budget and also with regard to strategic plans. What are you currently assessing the impact of cross-border trade on our tax receipts? These assessments have been made in the past, but is there anything clearer for you today so that some adjustments can be made on this basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U135	Thank you, very good question! Yeah, of course, every month we get an overview of the tax receipts, and we keep an eye on the situation. I've said that before, and there's nothing to hide. We will follow these figures very closely. We have taken into account that, if excise duties rise, on the one hand, border trade will increase, but, on the other hand, health behaviour will have an effect. I can assure you that, of course, interest groups have tried to get us a brother practically every month, that excise duty does not arrive, goods are bought from other countries, mainly from Latvia, and the Estonian state receives nothing. It's from month to month, and we're facing an assessment of claims versus facts. It's very difficult to discuss when you have the facts, the other side has the ratings. Then try to disprove them! Then you put specific numbers on the table and discuss. The best example is the summary data of last year, which no one can say anything against. In reality, 101% or 102% of the expected excise duty was collected. This is reality! Of course we are flexible in our calculations, we know that border trade always has a role to play. The question is, does a country have to make decisions on the basis of border trade? Does the Finnish state make its decisions based on the fact that the people of Lappeenranna occasionally go to Russia to buy something and the people of Helsinki go to Estonia? Finland has its own defined alcohol policy and Estonia also has its own alcohol policy. We are aware of the order of magnitude of 5 to 6% of border trade. It's perfectly legal and accounted for in our plans.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U136	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U137	Thank you for the opportunity to perform here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U138	I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U139	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The heirs, of course, wanted to know what the government was planning in case there was a setback from the Supreme Court, but as the Minister's answers revealed, there was no such plan. They let things go the way they do. There's no action plan for risk. But what did I want to talk about? The Minister stressed that all the costs provided for in the Coalition Agreement were affordable to the State. But if we look at the table of budgetary changes in the government union programme that was published at the end of last year, we can see that there has been a thinning on the revenue side, but the costs have proven to be higher than expected. I do not agree that the costs provided for in the coalition agreement are affordable for the state. If they are affordable for the state, why did you come today to the Committee on Monetary Affairs to present a plan to amend the state budget law? One can conclude from this that the main aim is to amend the State Budget Act because there is a plan to withdraw from the budgetary balance rule that has been in force since 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, As we know, the law in force requires that the budget be drawn up at least in structural balance. The government union has now come up with a plan, which was also presented today in the Committee on Monetary Affairs: this balance rule is intended to be ignored and established at the expense of the structural surpluses that we have known to have in the past, the budgets of the coming years being structurally deficient. If the costs you are planning are all affordable for the country, why do we need to plan the budget deficit? Why do we need to start living with future budgets, revenue for future years? There's a contradiction here. But, to sum up, I thank the Minister for their answers. Of course, we look forward to a budgetary strategy. It's coming, and we're gonna get a lot of answers from there. This inquiry was submitted a few months ago, now it is only the days of the week, when we get a comprehensive view of the state's financial situation in the form of a country's budgetary strategy, as well as a forecast that will soon be published. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U140	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U141	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! I do not have much to say in addition to what Mr Aivar has just said. I'm just going to sum up some of the minister's answers. First of all, I was a little disappointed when he answered my question when he said he liked to talk and explain, but he didn't really answer my question. I didn't understand what the bank tax would be for, what the vice is, what it's fighting against. But all right, that's that. I also fully agree that the former Minister of Finance must hope, as a member of the government, that perhaps the Supreme Court will find that the Chancellor of Justice is wrong. But it's kind of scary to hear there's obviously no risk plan. I've been working in the private sector for quite a while, and I also know that there really must be risk plans. And I know that the Minister of Finance must also have risk plans in case things don't go exactly as planned. Unfortunately, it seems that there are no risk plans at the moment. That's too bad! I am also very anxious that there is obviously a plan to disrupt the balance of the budget. And in order not to break the law, we're going to rewrite the laws. You don't need this step! Eesti Pank has also pointed out this, which has been referred to by the fiscal council. The Estonian economy does not need to be further stimulated. Putting extra money in very large volumes can actually cause problems in the economy. Eesti Pank came out last week with a statement that was quite harsh about the central bank, but in general it was still relatively gentle. But still, he was harsh about what he's usually been. The loan can be taken, the loan itself is not bad, but it must always be taken into account that the loan must be repaid. The budget may be in deficit. But if we take out a loan, the budget is in deficit and the loan has to be repaid. Clearly, the current government wants to live on the principle that after us come or the Flood. Sad! But I hope the mind returns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U142	The Minister will return to the speaker's desk. Please, you have the right to speak!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U143	Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity to respond to the last comments. You know, I guess it doesn't matter what I say. That's what I've understood for a long time. I can already see from your press release that the government doesn't have a plan, that's the title of the press release. When Mrs. Maris Lauri began to speak, I thought, "The Secretary of Finance didn't answer the questions." " And 30 seconds passed, and he said I didn't answer the questions. It's like that every time. The report shows that it is repeated in your speech every time we have held a debate between ourselves. I'm really trying to fix myself. I think I'm trying to answer as thoroughly as possible, but you already have this handwriting. Well, that's your right. You know, I'm telling you, don't panic! What do I mean by that? I mean, in the last four months, I've had to deny your claims all the time. There's some argument, there's a long time around it, and we're finally gonna get rid of it. It has been argued that labour taxes are about to rise. It's coming up now! We got it off somehow, so it doesn't rise, it falls. Right away, income tax will be 24% and then 30% of your salary. Well, it didn't! No, you didn't! We're gonna have to divert the ball you've been throwing all the time. They fly for a certain period, some get longer, some get shorter. But there's nothing to do, so that's real politics. You're saying that the risk plan isn't the sound of that in both of your speeches. I'm sorry, you've both been finance ministers. You, Maris Lauri, maybe only four or five months, but still. You have had to draw up a country's budget strategy and a state budget, I think that Mr Sõer is more than once. Hey, what are we talking about right now?! We have a valid law and this law has been challenged before the national budget is transferred. Are you saying that you deliberately want to start cooling one or another element in the economy, saying that maybe this money won't come. Maybe that's the verdict. Believe me, if the judgment is such that this law does not enter into force as was expected, the budget will still be exactly in line with the basic law currently in force. You said, Mrs Lauri, that if we took out a loan, there would be a budget deficit. I tell you, my good colleague, that Estonia has the lowest loan burden in Europe. We have the lowest loan burden in a competitive fashion! But Estonia has hundreds of millions of loans and you have never talked about it. We just signed an additional 400 million loan agreement with AIB to co-finance the use of the European Structural Funds some time ago. A 400-million-dollar loan agreement! We've never been ashamed of it. Estonia has borrowed more than once over time. Yes, we are the country with the lowest loan burden in Europe, but Estonia has taken out loans before. With regard to the change in the state budget, I think that in the coming weeks or in the coming months we will come here with a view to changing the state budget. We've never been ashamed of it. We want to change the state budget. We have in the basic law: if last year was a structural deficit, then in the coming years we will have to make a surplus budget to cover this deficit. That makes sense! That's the only way we're going to strike a balance. If there was a structural deficit for any reason, then in the coming years we will have to make a surplus budget. We have to do this to have a structural balance. And backwards, it makes the same sense. If there has been a structural surplus in earlier periods, it makes sense to adopt it in the coming years, especially if gross domestic product has not reached the level we would like. If our GDP does not grow, then you too should think about how to boost the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U144	With this speech, I will conclude my answer to the fifth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U145	The next item is the inquiry (No 324) on the sustainable and transparent management of the national car fleet submitted on 6 March by the members of the Riigikogu, Artur Talvik, Monika Haukanõmme, Andres Ammas, Külliki Kübarsep, Krista Aru, Andres Herkel, Ain Lutsep and Jüri Adams. Arthur Talvik, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U146	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! One such fine dance goes around cars and this dance is run by the current government. You come up with one plan, you come up with another plan, you get colored plates, you get car power. The former government hunted companies' cars, even at shopping malls. This encouraged us to take a deeper look at what is really happening in the public sector, in the public sector. We have asked all ministries for information on vehicles in their administration, compensation for travel expenses and use of taxi cards. The analysis of these data raises a number of questions about the sustainable and transparent management of the national fleet. We agree with the National Audit Office's critical assessment of the use of public transport, which is included in the audit "The feasibility of managing vehicles ofministeries' completed in 2016. The current government, as well as the previous government, has wanted to deal in depth with business cars, as I have already said. It was beyond reasonable limits when the IRS was prepared to monitor company cars and the Minister of Finance put forward the idea of colored license plates. At the moment, this idea has changed and cars are being taxed on the basis of capacity. It is possible that this thought has now become something new, because changes are taking place faster than we can ask questions. At the same time, the State has not paid comparable attention to its own fleet and to the practice of using vehicles, which also has many inefficiencies and risks. In view of the high number of public-sector vehicles, the sector needs a reasonable approach to avoid abuses and excessive costs. The state itself must show, or let us say, the government itself, the public sector itself must set an example for its citizens. We have examined the use of these cars and have asked the Minister six questions. I hope the minister reads them himself. There are also some examples in the questions. We hope for meaningful answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U147	Finance Minister Sven Sester will answer the questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U148	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear future President of the Free Party! On 6 March, you submitted an inquiry into whether and what activities we have planned in the Ministry of Finance to increase the sustainable and transparent management of the state car fleet. In its letter, the State did not pay comparable attention to its own fleet and to the practice of using vehicles, which also has many inefficiencies and risks. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We've been dealing with the state car park for a long time. Let me set out in more detail what we have planned and planned. It is known that the organisation of the work of government agencies and public authorities managed by them is decentralised in accordance with the law. This means that each institution has the right and obligation to organise its work in such a way as to ensure that all work equipment, including vehicles, is fit for purpose, practical, sustainable and benevolent. In other words, each public authority first decides to use the vehicles as efficiently as possible. I would point out that the tasks of the institutions are very different, which is why the general principles can apply, leaving the institutions the necessary flexibility to organise their business trips. The role of the Ministry of Finance is to develop guidelines and principles to ensure the effective acquisition and use of state assets. Let it be said in advance that we are about to send a regulation laying down the principles governing the organisation of official journeys by public authorities to the coordination circle. The aim of the Regulation is to harmonise the procedures for the organisation of business trips in government agencies and institutions they manage, including the use of cars. This is also a logical follow-up to changes in the taxation of the use of cars by the employer. The conditions can be the same for both private and public vehicles. Last year, the Ministry of Finance prepared an improvement plan for the use of ministries and vehicles from these institutions. The efficiency plan includes concrete proposals on how to make the national fleet more efficient. With the gradual implementation of the proposed solutions, the country will be able to save an estimated EUR 16 million in ten years. In ten years, 16 million euros! The proposals made in the efficiency plan include longer use of the vehicle, installation of the positioning device, central procurement, as well as recommendations for alternative means of transport. There have also been changes to the accounting arrangements allowing for a more detailed analysis of the use of the institution's vehicles. The proposals for an efficiency plan can be consulted on the website of the Ministry of Finance, which is a public document. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will now answer the questions you have asked. The first question: 'Please provide, by ministry, the cost of road transport in comparison with the previous year and the current financial year. After the audit of the National Audit Office, is there a planned cost reduction? 'In 2016, the cost of supporting land vehicles was 22.5 million euros, which is 10%, or 2.5 million euros less than in 2015. The management costs of public authorities' vehicles have decreased steadily since 2012, by almost 20% compared to 2016, to a financial amount of EUR 5.5 million. I would point out that, when comparing the numbers of areas of government in ministries, it is important to take into account that the institutions are different in nature, size and responsibilities of the work. The biggest fleet belongs to the Ministry of the Interior, which costs 67% of all costs, which is about 13 million euros. It should be taken into account that the Ministry of the Interior has two large institutions, the Police and Border Guard Board and the Rescue Board, whose means of transport are essential for the provision of public services. The following are the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications with their areas of government. The State Budget for 2017 has allocated funds to ministries and agencies for management costs which are not subject to a more detailed separation by the authorities. Therefore, we can only make a comparison between the current year and the previous year at the end of the year when the budget implementation data have been received. The second question: 'The public authorities use a wide range of partners to lease and rent vehicles. At least 11 service providers show fragmentation and continued silo towering of authorities. This reduces the chances of obtaining more favourable contractual terms through joint procurement [... ]. Is and how should vehicle leasing and leasing be harmonised in order to achieve better conditions and financial savings? When will joint procurement by ministries be organised, and what has prevented it so far? " Indeed, if up to now the authorities have organised public procurements for the purchase of passenger cars themselves and mostly contracts for the leasing of passenger cars have been made, a new solution will be to organise separate procurements for the purchase of vehicles and the financing of their purchase, such as possible leasing, centrally from this year onwards. The State Support Services Centre (hereinafter referred to as RTK) announced in January this year a central procurement procedure for the purchase of vehicles. 51 public authorities participate in the central procurement process. Within the framework of the procurement, eight types of passenger cars are to be purchased, from small cars to minivans. Public authorities will continue to procure independently vehicles that do not fall under public procurement standards, such as various special purpose vehicles, M1G vehicles, alarm vehicles, trailers, trucks, buses and motorcycles. At the same time, the authorities have the opportunity to use the procurement terms and standard contracts developed by RTK and the standards for passenger cars. This is a pilot procurement. From 2018 onwards, it is planned to make the acquisition of vehicles through the RTK mandatory for government agencies and bodies they manage. The purpose of joint procurement is to reduce the time taken to organise or participate in public procurement by both public authorities and tenderers and the cost of the goods and services purchased, taking into account the economies of scale. Greater procurements are also highly likely to result in better prices for the contracting authority. In addition, through joint procurement, we obtain vehicles with previously agreed parameters, i.e. the technical specifications of the joint procurement vehicles are standardised. It's very important. The third question: 'Leasing money on the cars of ministers and chancellors is very different compared to ministries. Some drive a rented car with a moderate monthly payment, while others choose a luxury car with a monthly payment of over EUR 1000. The management of the ministries also has purchased vehicles. How do you view luxurious commercial vehicles and large price contrasts? What do you do in order to make leasing cheaper and longer lifespans of cars? 'The purchase of representative vehicles for ministers and chancellors is not precisely regulated. The current State Assets Act gives rise to the principle that any manager of state assets, i.e. a ministry or agency, is responsible for the purposeful, rational, sustainable and prudent use of the property he owns, including cars. It is therefore the responsibility of each ministry to ensure that there are no unreasonable costs for the acquisition of vehicles. It is possible to set standards for representative vehicles, i.e. certain requirements, and they will also be acquired centrally in the future. The fourth question: 'In the administration of the Ministries, vehicles have been leased, bought out, hired and rented. The National Audit Office points out that such inconsistencies do not allow cost effectiveness to be achieved. What are you going to do to harmonise this practice? How do you feel about the proposal of the National Audit Office to cross-use vehicles within the scope of government in order to reduce their total number? Do you have an analysis of how to achieve savings in the combination of purchasing and renting/leasing vehicles? ' I will start with the first part of the question, which points out that the National Audit Office has indicated that the use of different financing solutions for the acquisition of vehicles does not allow the cost effectiveness to be achieved. In fact, the audit of the National Audit Office does not include such an assessment and for a reason. The Working Group of the Ministry of Finance also concluded that whether a vehicle is taken out or purchased should be decided on the basis of the purpose of the vehicle and how the vehicle will be used. The National Audit Office advised the Ministry of Finance to develop principles that allow public authorities to decide and justify decisions on which type of financing model for the acquisition and use of vehicles and when to use them. We have an analysis, it is available, as I said, from the website of the Ministry of Finance and the proposals presented in the analysis are taken into account, as far as possible, in the drafting of the state budget strategy. As far as cross-use is concerned, I do not think that the area of government should somehow be a determining boundary here. The Ministry of Finance has experimented with the cross-use of passenger cars with the Tax and Customs Board, but after the agency moved, it just got logistically complicated and irrational. However, a common vehicle fleet is planned, for example, for a joint building of ministries, where vehicles are cross-used by a number of authorities in different areas of government physically located in the same area. Question 5: "What have you done to ensure that public car use is better monitored and that the risk of abuse is mitigated? How often have there been abuses of professional vehicles, driving compensations and taxi cards? ' It is usually difficult and time-consuming to detect the abuse of professional vehicles, driving compensations and taxi cards. I'm afraid so. On the one hand, of course, it is important to avoid abuse, and on the other hand, it is also important to ensure a reasonable level of reporting and coordination. It is important for each authority to monitor the use and use of its own cars. All these issues have already been addressed by the Ministry of Finance in this regulation laying down the principles governing the organisation of trade trips mentioned earlier. Among other things, the Ministry of Finance also proposes that all government agencies and bodies they manage use GPS monitoring as much as possible in the future. Very simple, on the one hand, it provides information on the possibilities for optimising the use of the fleet, on the other hand, ensuring transparency in their use. Secondly, the payment of compensation for a private passenger car is expressly prohibited as a fixed amount on a monthly basis. Work trips carried out by a private car may be reimbursed only on a per kilometre basis in accordance with the forthcoming draft and should be agreed with the immediate driver. Question 6: "Do you think it is necessary for ministries to have taxicabs and taxicabs as well as travel allowances (tens of thousands of euros per year) which must be accounted for and checked separately? How do you regulate this area, and what do you think must be the basic standards and rules that guarantee transparency, legality and sustainability? ' Very good question. The above-mentioned draft, which will soon be here, also sets out the principle that the means of transport chosen for the commercial journey must be appropriate given the nature, length and destination of the particular business trip. It is precisely in order to use the most cost-effective solutions that no solution is centrally banned and is not intended to do so, but it is important to reflect costs clearly and in a uniform manner. With regard to vehicles and professional journeys, the corresponding changes have been introduced into the accounting rules. They came into force early this year. The amendments make it possible to distinguish more clearly between vehicle costs, taxi and public transport costs. Common principles, periodic cost monitoring and comparable data for the organisation of official journeys are what will actually guarantee us the prudent use of public property in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U149	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you for your answers. We learned by ministry that the cost of road transport is in a declining trend. Actually, my question is two parts. Does this include fuel costs that have been on a declining trend for two years? The second part of the question is this: why must ministries in Estonia have the most expensive, how can I say, the most significant car brands, such as Audi, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U150	Thank you. I'm trying to respond in a spirit of strength, based on my best knowledge. Although these facts were not wanted in the 'basic' of the questions, I had different types of costs taken out and I have a good opportunity now to bring out the fuel costs to you with almost euro precision. On the question of if the fuel is less spent, I'll say yes. I think there are several reasons for this. One is perhaps the price of fuel, which has become cheaper over time, and the other is the reduction in the car fleet, which has also taken place over time. The third may be that cars have started to consume less fuel to travel 100 kilometres. I think there may be three reasons. If you asked what proportions they have, it should definitely be calculated, but the costs have decreased. Since I have these data, I'm taking this opportunity to tell you right here, they're going to stay nicely on the verbatim and there is. I'll name those amounts to 100,000. While EUR 10.5 million went on fuel in 2012, in 2013, I will round up EUR 9.8 million, in 2014 EUR 9.4 million, in 2015 EUR 8.2 million and in 2016 EUR 7.4 million. So the trend is clearly downward. I also have data on insurance, for example, how insurance prices have fallen as a summary. I have a full overview of these vehicle management costs. The other part of the question was about car brands, which brand cars could or should be. As far as I am aware, I must admit that I myself have not carried out any procurements, I do not think that nobody expects the Minister to carry out the procurements, I do not think that a specific car brand has been mentioned in the procurements. I hope I'm not wrong. I don't think there's gonna be a call for tender, one of the conditions is that the name of a car company has to start with an "A" for example, implying to Audi. I don't believe it. Perhaps there are certain criteria on the basis of which some cars can participate in the procurement, but I do not believe that it is aimed at one company or another, as can be seen from your own excerpt. As you have noted, this car palette is very written, there are Mercedes, Audis and Škoda, very different cars. So I don't think today, in 2017, someone's gonna make any targeted purchases. I hope that's not the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U151	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U152	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I apologise in advance for my question partly repeating my fellow Members' questions, but I would really like to understand this. Am I right to understand that when you buy and lease cars, you and this working group will see the possibility of a variety of cooperation, but there is no special perspective in the use of cars for cooperation between ministries and other public authorities, even if this super ministry building, called the common languages, is completed, where the four ministries will work together? Against this background, would it not be possible to share some kind of car? If you don't mind, I'll give you a little more fun example of the social media I watched this weekend. Two ministers are going to Tapa to see the Allied war machines. Are they still going with separate cars or maybe you could go with them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U153	Thank you for a good question and for the last "fun" context. There's nothing wrong with it. I think there has been a good debate today, there is no such spite. There has been a real debate, we have thought together how to best save taxpayers' money. I think it's a very good debate. Your question was whether this cross-use logic should be monitored within the domain of government. I gave an example before, and my answer was precisely that I should not even restrict myself to the realm of government. An example was precisely how the Ministry of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board did this cross-use at some point. But when the Tax and Customs Board physically moved further away, this cross-use was already rendered useless. However, when it comes to this same common building, for example, in the future it will be quite realistic to start optimising spending not only within the area of government but across the board, in a good way. It's completely accounted for, and that's what I wanted to put away from this speaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U154	Thank you. No further questions. Thanks for the answer to the question! And now it is possible to make a speech. First, on behalf of the heirs, please speak to Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U155	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, It's a good thing you liked our questioning. But I have to admit, we didn't really like the situation that this question came about. In fact, it was precisely the feeling that some things are now starting to go over the edge of the country. Here you can point to the tracking of company cars, which the Tax and Customs Board started to do fast in the meantime. Then it's a funny idea to start painting numbers. And finally, we don't like what's in the air, either, or that car tax, which you don't want to call the right name once again, calling it an environmental fee. Maybe this hypocrisy is even the worst, but technical issues too. This is not all conducive to the use of very sustainable cars. In fact, the state must be a model of economy and transparency. This has not been convincingly demonstrated so far, although the 2016 audit of the National Audit Office made it very clear that there is huge room for improvement here and that the Ministry of Finance had not taken these issues very seriously until then. One part of your response was that costs have decreased by 20%. I'm sure it's an impressive number. But in my opinion, Ain Lutsep's question was how much fuel component and fuel price volatility play in it, very serious and relevant. I'd like to find out. There is little doubt in the soul, Mr Minister, that it turned out to be very nice for 20%, but it does not tell the full truth about what has been achieved. In any case, we believe that this regulation on an efficiency plan and on business trips is a step in the right direction, and this is where we must move forward and achieve maximum efficiency. Let us now go to the most visible part of this problem or the top of the iceberg, which concerns the leasing of representative cars and how expensive these cars must be. I think that this is one of the emotional problems on which honourable ministers, cabinet members, as well as Chancellors, the administration of ministries should pay much more attention so that there is such a good trust in our country between citizens and the political, also administrative, elites. If I may, I shall briefly quote the letter sent to us by one of the voters in this regard. Artur Talvik has already asked about the comparison between Audide, Mercedes and Shajad. But this letter, which arrived in my mailbox, says: 'In case you rent a very good Škoda instead of A6 and extend your car rental deadlines, you could save a cost on every car that would allow 24 children to operate their tonsils a year. Today, children with rotting tonsils wait 14 months in the order of operation. Dear A6s is an example of the alienation of the political elite, which leads Estonia's politics towards the protest movement that has already taken power in the West. That's what we don't want. So we address this problem and try to set an example here with austerity, not as we have done so far. " This letter continues with a few sentences on this site, where there is about this old, well - known question: Is it embarrassing if these sums are so great? I admit that this comparison is very emotional, but this comparison is serious. So, for our part, we promise that we will continue to keep an eye on this problem. We will keep an eye on how the Ministry of Finance will draw its own conclusions and actions from the findings of the audit carried out by the National Audit Office. So, Minister, the strength to do so! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U156	Good President! Good minister! Of course, it would be interesting to know how much this efficiency plan cost. Does it have a price? But now the main question. The State Support Services Centre will set standards for ministers and, let's say, Chancellors cars. It is now clear that there are very expensive, Audi 6 types of cars and Mercedes-Benze, while there are, for example, Škoda Superb, which is significantly lower than the leasing price. Which of these standards are coming, rather, towards Škoda or rather towards Audi 6?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U157	There's no more calls. Does the respondent wish to make an inquiry? No, I don't. In that case, I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U158	You have questions too. First Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, This time you had your answers very well prepared. And if these costs have indeed decreased by 20% in 2016, the National Audit Office, which raised this issue, as well as the Ministry, will remain to be commended. The National Audit Office also points out in its audit that this issue has been raised for years and years. But there is room for improvement, that is what ministers and chancellors are talking about at very high prices for car leasing. That's my question. How many cars in the state car park, say, 2019, 2020? How much more has the cost been reduced by then? Are there plans to do something about these scary leases, which specifically concern the ministries' chancellors, as well as the ministers' own cars?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U160	Thank you. I'll do the countercomplication first. I think that this approach is necessary and that I have good preparation in the sense that you have praised. I think this is the place to pay attention to. I'm about to get to your question. I used the term "spending review" before. The whole point of these efficiency plans in the world is that, in essence, a block is being taken, an in-depth analysis of it is being carried out, and there should then be some conclusion on how to better do one or the other thing that has been monitored in the future, also from a financial point of view, because it is taxpayers' money. In this sense, you have well pointed out that we have made the first pilot project, and this pilot project was just about the car park. That is why it is good to talk today, because some steps have been taken and there is a vision of how to proceed. You're asking me how it's going in the future. If you ask me how many percent will be fewer cars in two or three years, or what kind of car park will be in 2020, I have to admit that I will most likely owe you an answer. I would rather say to you this way that, as you can see, taxpayers' money has been less spent over the years, specifically the car park has been reduced, and this direction is continuing and lasting. Go to the Ministry of Finance's website and there'll be some interesting nuances. Let me just give you an example: there are public authorities whose average annual mileage of cars is so low, the intensity of use is so low that at some point the question arises as to whether it makes any sense to keep this car, perhaps it would be easier to give a taxi card for taxpayers' money. I don't rule it out, it could happen at some point. Let's say that taxpayers' money buys or leases a car because they need to carry out tasks. Of course, gas costs less, because the use is small, but there is depreciation and leasing payments, etc. Maybe at some point it's wise to give a person a taxi card to drive those short, little jobs in a taxi. The in-depth review of what was done turned out to be cars with low or medium mileage, and then there are cars with very large mileage. That's where we can make decisions about whether it's reasonable to buy out a car, whether it's reasonable to take a rental, a financial lease, or literally give a taxi card. It's actually coming out of that review. I think that today we are at the beginning of one stage, both through the answers to your inquiry and through its effectiveness plan. Indeed, I think that this question of understanding is very well timed, whether knowingly or not, because we are at the very beginning of the journey to pay attention to this issue. As I mentioned, estimates show that millions of euros can be saved in the future, not in previous periods, but in the future if we do the right thing. What is very important is that we have data and analysis. You can already draw a conclusion on how to proceed. It's very important, because if you don't have the data, it's hard to keep going. I know you really did run parallel analyses and collect data from all the ministries, but also visit the Ministry of Finance website, there are some pretty good suggestions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U161	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U162	Thank you. To begin with, what is the cost of doing an analysis? I always remember the question of who controls the controller. That's the old, well-known question. No, there is a specific person in the Ministry of Finance who worked on an efficiency plan as part of a pilot project and, of course, in order to do this, he contacted people from different ministries. I don't know how many hours he spent there to get information and inputs to start making any conclusions, but I think that the result that comes from there is definitely more effective from the point of view of the taxpayer and outweighs the cost that this person will be paid in a particular case. As regards the second part of the question of whether there was any agreement on what car prices might be, I also looked at the fact that some ministers had 700 euros and some 1000 euros. What's it got to do with it? The true story, as I said in the answer to one question, is that this principle is laid down in the current State Assets Act in such a way that the sovereign, ministry or other institution to which the property belongs has four criteria: purposeful, sustainable, practical and prudent. I think that the introduction and construction of the new system will require a review of whether there should be a financial criterion and, if so, which one. If you ask whether there is a financial criterion now, it is not. But notice that depending on the purpose, cars may have different prices. If someone has a special purpose machine, the price may be in a different place because they need whatever additional capabilities they need. I don't know if the minister needs a specialized machine to start driving over ditches somewhere. Targeted, viable, sustainable and benevolent just these are the criteria that are currently laid down in the State Property Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U163	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, also for the plan to be drawn up or for the improvement that already exists. That is what my question is about. At present, the acquisition of cars through the Support Services Centre is being tested as a pilot project. Will it be foreseen in the future that control and supervision will also be central through the Centre for Support Services? In view of the fact that some public authorities are being moved out of the capital, is it considered that the needs, costs, limits and mileage of vehicles may increase again?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U165	Thank you for that question. My opinion is that control should not be transferred to the State Support Services Centre. Why is this State Support Services Centre needed? Rather, it is the fact that, as a general rule, this competence is concentrated there and there are economies of scale. In the same way as State Real Estate AS, in essence, in every ministry there is no longer a little competence in any department, but since the administration of the building itself and the announcement of possible public procurements, everything is concentrated in Riigi Kinnisvara AS. This has been the logic of Riigi Kinnisvara AS. The logic of the State Support Services Centre is the same: to offer the possibility of central purchasing to different institutions. It can already be seen that this principle works. It is also logical, there will be a scale effect and those who develop procurement will be competent. As a software programmer once said, God would give the right client who can say what he really wants. This is always the biggest problem for software programmers, which the client wants, so that after 10 times it doesn't have to change anything. I'm sure this is where this jurisdiction comes in. But if you're asking if they could still have a follow-up check, I think there's a good chance that they won't. This check should most likely be carried out by the car owner. By car keeper, I mean not a particular person, but an institution. Finally, he has this machine, at a better price due to the economies of scale, i.e. at a lower cost to the taxpayer. On the basis of the efficiency plan, we know whether it has been taken with a financial lease, operating lease, bought out, or whatever option has been chosen for some reason, so that the taxpayer is better. After that, however, the use of the car and the whole side should still be the responsibility of the particular institution. I see that responsibility stays there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U166	Monika Haukanõmm.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In addition to the National Audit Office, which analysed the feasibility of managing vehicles from ministries, you also carried out an analysis at the Ministry of Finance and tried to understand how to use state assets more prudently. In one of your answers, you also mentioned the GPS device for a moment, because it is one way to use public property more prudently, to distinguish between private journeys, necessary journeys, perhaps from unnecessary journeys. In response to the National Audit Office, you indicated that in autumn 2016 you were conducting a joint procurement to obtain GPS monitoring tools and also to obtain a single booking system service. Has this procurement been carried out? Have you succeeded, or are you stuck? How far away is this activity?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U168	Thank you. I'm gonna start from a distance. As a minister, I have to say that I have to look into the physical conduct of these procurements, and I can send you a separate reply after how far this particular process is. This question will certainly not be left unanswered. But when we talk specifically about GPS equipment itself, our goal really is that the car bought for taxpayers' money is used for its purpose, as we have agreed in society. The Ministry of Finance has proposed here, as one possible option, that passenger cars should have a GPS device. This would provide the best information and transparency on the possibilities for optimising the use of the fleet. Let us now go to another issue and look, for example, at the private use of private cars owned by a legal person, based on the so-called "mixed-use logic" of the logic of abolishing driving diaries, etc. In this bill, which should soon reach the Riigikogu, there are several ways to show in the future that the car has only been used by the company. There is certainly one option just because it is not mandatory, but there is one possibility that a GPS device will be placed on the car or purchased from third parties. Today, there are special companies offering GPS monitoring services. As far as I know, a lot of security companies buy it for a month, which isn't very high. I imagine there's an analogous situation in the public sector. We have always said that we cannot treat the private and public sectors differently; the situation is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U169	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U170	The seventh item is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsep, Monika Haukanõmme, Ain Lutsep, Andres Ammas, Jüri Adams and Artur Talvik on 22 March. Finance Minister Sven Sester will answer the question. But first, I ask for a representative of the speakers of the chair, who is Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U171	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I hope you will also like this question and we will receive substantive answers about Eesti Energia. Eesti Energia is undoubtedly a state company of such weight that it ultimately affects all of us, we are all dependent in some way on the activities of Eesti Energia. We may not raise issues directly relevant to ordinary consumers in this question, but there are also very important questions about the management of Eesti Energia, investment activities, all the ways in which our monopolistic position is sometimes used to deter someone else from the market and caused us several problems. There are a number of problems right here that I would like answers to. For some time now, the formation of boards of state companies has been discussed in such a way that they should be more responsible, better equipped than they have been by political naming so far. A nomination committee has been invited to survive. You have also promised, Minister, to build on proposals that would make the principles and practice of corporate governance in the country more similar to those of the private sector. We really hope that if this nomination committee makes its proposals, they will not stand on the Minister's table if you do not like some of the proposals and you reject them. Let's hope for the best! So, the first questions relate to this committee and possible changes in the composition of the Estonian Energy Council. The second number of questions concerns the possible separation of Estonian Energy's functions, energy production, renewable energy production, mining, oil production, etc. Are any of these scheduled to go to the stock market? The next problem is the productivity of the oil production plant Enefit280 and the return on investment, on which there has been a great deal of criticism in the public and in the press. Among other things, strange facts have emerged that the results of the internal audit were not available to the members of the Board of Eesti Energia. In addition, the Council commissioned another legal audit, the results, backgrounds and conclusions of which are certainly of great interest to the public. But the question is above all why Enefit280's productivity and return on this investment have proved to be lower than planned. The feasibility of this investment has raised a number of questions. Finally, the government allocated Tootsi Suursoo area to Eesti Energia as a contribution in kind to increase the company's share capital. This certainly does not like wind power producers who have brought this matter to court. The question arises as to whether there can be illegal State aid here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U172	Thank you. To answer the question, Minister of Finance Sven Sester has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U173	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will answer the questions you have asked concerning Eesti Energia. I'm going to the questions right now. I will read the question correctly first, and then I will answer to be better monitored. The first question: 'At the beginning of the year, three members returned from the Estonian Energy Council. What further changes are you planning in the composition of the Estonian Energy Council? When are we going to get so far that the Council is not inclined towards the parties in power of the coalition? ' With regard to the selection of members of the board of directors of Eesti Energia and all other companies in the country, the government made a decision that fundamentally alters current practice. In March, an independent nomination committee started work with the task of making proposals to the shareholders to appoint the members of the boards of national companies and, if necessary, to recall them. The nomination committee will review the boards of all companies in the country and make proposals for the new compositions of the Boards. The Government of the Republic set the purpose of the nomination committee to analyse by 31 May for each company the competence that the company needs for its specifics. Based on this and the terms of office of the members of the Supervisory Board, the nomination committee will find suitable candidates and propose to the shareholders, including the Minister of Finance, the election or recall of the members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Energia. In the near future, we will present to the Riigikogu a draft amendment to the State Assets Act, which provides for the role of the nomination committee in governing state participations also at the level of the Act. For example, the manager has the right to appoint only candidates approved by the nomination committee. The second question: 'Is and when is the separation of the various functions of Eesti Energia planned, i.e. creating separate companies for energy production, renewable energy production, mining, oil production, etc.? " Already, most of the main business activities within the Eesti Energia Group are concentrated in separate subsidiaries: production of energy based on fossil fuels, production of renewable energy, mines, distribution network, technology production, energy sales, foreign investment. At the moment, for example, there is no plan to divide Enefiti Energy Production AS into sister companies active in the production of electricity and oil, as the two production processes are largely linked to the same raw material, the same reporting system, the need for a CO2 quota. In addition, for a new oil plant, the by-product of oil production is electricity. As far as mining is concerned, neither the production of oil shale electricity nor oil shale oil is organised in such a way that the power plant or the oil plant has no certainty about its main input. Without this, it is simply not possible to finance investment in production. The third question: 'If such a separation takes place, what role do you think it would be appropriate for companies to be placed on the stock market? ' As has been said, there is currently no further separation of companies. Each subsidiary already has a very clear competence and competence. The current government has agreed that Enefit Renewable Energy is expected to be placed on the stock market for 49%. The preparations are already underway. I think that the involvement of private capital in another subsidiary of Eesti Energia or the group as a whole is actually worth considering. Understandably, however, this requires at least the consensus of the government departments. The current government agreement is more ambitious than many before in terms of raising private capital in public companies, and the agreement must first be implemented. Question 4: "How do you estimate the productivity of the Enefit280 oil production plant that started in 2012 and the return on investment made? What is the result of lower production capacity and higher costs? ' Enefit280 oil plant's production capacity today corresponds to about 90% of planned capacity of 90%! The capacity achieved is 31.7 tonnes per hour, with a planned capacity of 34.4 tonnes per hour. In comparison, the production of 22 tonnes per hour was produced by the plant when it first started production in 2013. The increase in Enefit280's investment compared to the original budget was due to the appreciation of the parts of the yard, including the necessary additional work not foreseen in the investment decision. The current capacity has been achieved, above all, by optimising and setting up the production process in cooperation with partners. In 2015 and 2016, no significant additional investments have been made at the plant. Minor modifications and configuration works have been carried out. In order to increase capacity, technical solutions have been developed in cooperation with Outotec and Tallinn University of Technology to optimise fluctuations in the production process and the heat carrier deficit, which will be implemented this year and should ensure the planned capacity of 34.4 tonnes per hour. Apart from the efficiency of production, the return on investment depends on the world market price of oil production. If you look at what the world market price is now, Enefit280 produces business profits. If you ask whether the prospect of Eesti Energia as an oil manufacturer is better because of the new Enefit280 plant with an efficient and less environmental impact than if it were operated by only two old oil-producing plants, which took almost 20 years to achieve reliability, there is no doubt that this is the case. Question 5: "What conclusions have been drawn from the legal audit? How will it be ensured that the Supervisory Board of AS Eesti Energia receives sufficient information to assess the reasonableness of decisions and investment proposals made by the management board of the company? " This topic was last discussed in the Estonian Energy Council on 23 February. a. Eesti Energia has drawn conclusions from the audits and changed its work processes. There have been changes to the intra-group arrangements concerning the adoption of investment decisions and the exchange of information between the Board of Eesti Energia and the Management Board. In order to better mitigate risks, the management board has confirmed the principles of project-based activity of the Eesti Energia Group. The Internal Audit Department has also taken an increased focus on development projects and will audit the management of major ongoing development projects in 2017. In addition, the general meeting has confirmed the expectations of the owner; the Minister of Finance has confirmed the expectations of the owner. This document shall serve as a guideline for both the Governing Council and the Executive Board and shall indicate, inter alia, which risk behaviour is accepted by the holder. Question 6: "The government allocated Tootsi Suursoo area to Eesti Energia as a contribution in kind to increase the company's share capital. The value of the property was set at EUR 4,1 million. That decision has been challenged in court. Why was the land granted below the market price to the State company and could there be illegal State aid? " The price of the properties necessary for Toots' wind farm corresponds to market value and is determined in accordance with the State Assets Act and the European Commission's State Aid Communication, according to which the value of the land is assessed by an independent expert on the basis of generally accepted valuation standards. The report on the assessment of the properties necessary for the construction of Tootsi wind farm was prepared by DTZ Real Estate Expert as an independent evaluator. The evaluation process has been validated by the Ministry of Finance and the independent financial auditor of Eesti Energia. Therefore, there is no reason to argue that the normal value of the land of EUR 4,1 million was below the market price. The decisions taken are in accordance with competition rules and no illegal state aid has been granted to Eesti Energia. In order to open the wider context of the Tootsi wind farm dispute, I will explain that Tootsi wind farm development area accounts for 35% of the areas designated in the thematic plan for wind energy in Pärnu County. There are also developments with construction law in other parts of Estonia, as well as developments at the planning stage. It is not true that this is the only region in which a wind farm can be built. However, in the case of Tootsi wind farm, developments have reached a stage where construction could be started immediately. As I said before, the state is planning to take Efiti Renewable Energy shares to the stock exchange, which is the foundation of Toots' wind farm, and so it would be possible to invest in this project and subsequently receive income from investments in a much larger number of individuals, and I am thinking here of Estonian people either as direct investments or through possible pension funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U174	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U175	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Inquiry, the question was the location of the property given to Eesti Energia as a contribution in kind. That's what I get, it's a regular deal. Instead, I have a question about the allocation of 20 million euros planned in the 2017 budget to increase the share capital of Eesti Energia. It's at the Treasury Department cost line. At the time of the budget, I did not get an answer to that question in the Commission. Later, we also had representatives of Eesti Energia who said that they knew nothing about it. I have a question that there is no so-called 'budgetary laundering' here. A non-financial financing transaction, this allocation of 20 million will not affect the balance of the budget. At the same time, 20 million are withdrawn as dividend income, which has a positive impact on the balance of the budget, at the expense of which costs can be incurred. For what project, what is the 20 million planned to increase the share capital of Eesti Energia? Overrule my suspicion that this isn't a budget wash.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U176	Thank you. It's not a budget wash.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U177	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, When you answered the questions, you gave the impression that increasing Enefit's investment came from unforeseen circumstances. In front of me is a copy of the February 8 commercial paper, which has been made of wood and red, that the fuel delivery system alone went up to EUR 22.5 to 26.5 million. These are huge sums of money. It has been calculated here that the value of the yard was also presented to the Council at EUR 68 million lower. It's natural to have internal communication reorganized, but it's a little consolation when things have been going on like this. A further analysis has revealed that this has become 68 million more expensive. Who's in charge? Was the council incompetent, or was the management hiding something?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U179	Thank you. I understand that I must now comment on any earlier decisions since I was not the Minister of Finance myself. I'm trying to do it the best I can. I think there are other members of the Council at the will of chance in this Chamber since then, but I do not know if they are prepared to comment separately. I understand that decision-making must always be viewed on the basis of the best knowledge of the time. I assume that, since I was not in the process of making this decision myself, I can only assume that at the moment these decisions were made, the knowledge of the time was based on what was the world's worth and what was the assumption of putting together the factory according to its model at the time. I have no reason to believe that there were any other assumptions. An analogous question is, for example, the case of Auvere, where gas became more expensive over time. If you ask why we made this decision, energy security issues will also come into play here, whether or not it will guarantee us energy security. Those are very philosophical questions, if we're going to spread this whole thing. I think it might be an important nuance about this. At the moment, it is absolutely necessary to check whether the investment that has been made is working on the assumptions that it was once called upon to implement, whether it also has any raw materials to be fed into the boiler, and whether it meets the criteria that were expected to be met when setting up this particular plant. I have understood that these criteria, as I stated in my reply today, have been met in 90% and are currently being worked towards achieving 100% compliance. It is expected that this level will continue to be achieved this year. So I think that there is now reason to look at the investments that Eesti Energia still needs to make in order to move forward, whether to differentiate its portfolio or to create security of energy supply within the group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U180	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U181	Thank you. Dear Minister, To clarify the facts: in my opinion, thanks to the various fines that were imposed, Eesti Energia managed to obtain the Auvere power plant project at a cost of 60 million in the end. I have a question about Soviet assembly. A few months ago, you and your partymates rejoiced that at last the nomination committee was in place and that members of the council could be elected. About the same time, news came that the chairman of Omniva's board was replaced. Then there was an article that Urve Palo had intervened in changing this leader, saying that if Kärma was not voted off, we would replace the council. This article, as well as the fact that you have not rejected it, does give the impression that the candidates proposed by the nomination committee may not, however, be elected either as members of Eesti Energia, Omniva or other Soviets, because Palo is simply not fit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U182	Thank you, good questioner! I'm gonna try and answer everything you picked up. It seemed that you either knowingly or not knowingly, I think you were deliberately mixing things together. You started with the nomination committee, which aims to set up the Council, and then you arrived smoothly at the level of a board member, which certainly does not exist in the nomination committee. [[Interjection. The manager's ringing the bell.]] But I'm really trying to answer according to my best knowledge. I would start with the nomination committee itself, and I will finally, of course, reach the leader of Omniva and Mrs Palon. Don't be afraid. I'm not going anywhere. We're going to get there. First of all, the nomination committee. I think that what has happened now is such a symbolic change that we may not yet feel it in practice. It is precisely because there is one filter that proposes to the general meeting that the Supervisory Board be a member. What is there to deny is that the councils of companies have often changed as the government changes. In time, it has been as we have seen. There have been votes 3 : 3 and 4 : 4. You can ask what the expectations of owners are when the result of the vote is 3: 3. Hence, the owner has not clearly set out his expectations. This paradigm shift is now coming, and I believe that society will later understand how important this is. What really is a state enterprise? Governments change, parties change, but the state company in this context is like a stock exchange. The logic of the stock exchange is that you have hundreds, if not thousands of shareholders. And there's the nomination committee. It is not a representative of one shareholder or another, but it is based on what would be necessary for the company to have what competence a person could have on the board. Once again, I am very positive about this committee being put into practice. As I said in one of my responses, more than that, we want to lay down this in the Treasury Act. The nomination committee is a commission set up by a government order which prevents a situation in which some political views tend to be determined in accordance with some other criteria. I also actually think that these criteria are transparent, fair and fair. So much for the nomination committee. As for where you ended up with your question, you must review it, but I remember that Urve Palo denied it and said that he had not influenced the election of the Head of the Council. I remember that he has been asked this question, and he has answered it very specifically that there has been no influence. I don't have any more information. I have no reason to doubt the words of the Minister for Enterprise when he has said so. Why would he lie, I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U183	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U184	Good President! Good minister! Recently, we had the Electricity Market Act and its amendments at second reading in the Riigikogu. One amazing change was that it was wind power producers that would switch to the new support scheme almost 2.5 years later than other renewable energy producers. By way of derogation, their transition to the new support scheme was extended until 2021. Why did the government coalition grant such an extension? Private wind power producers also say that this is done precisely because Tootsi Park will be finished and Eesti Energia will receive these renewable energy charges over the next 12 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U185	Thank you. I'm sorry, good questioner! It reminds me a little of Münchhausen, who's gonna lift himself up a little bit. We have a parliamentary state, it is Parliament that deals with the drafts. This is perhaps a second-reading draft, if I am not mistaken, and Parliament is dealing with it, not the government. You should ask yourself this: you are the Riigikogu that is currently processing this bill, not the government. However, we have a government and a parliament with completely separate bodies. I'd rather ask you that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U186	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Perhaps this question of mine seems marginal and not so important at all, but if you look at it from a human point of view, it is no longer a very small question. This concerns the view of the Electricity distribution and Competition Authority that network service prices are too high, resulting in a reduction of network service charges of around 8% for companies and around 4% for home customers. However, in addition to the general depreciation of network services, a fixed charge of up to EUR 5 will be imposed in consumption places where consumption is either missing or very low, up to 250 kilowatt-hours over the next year. This concerns around 57000 consumption places. Does it not seem to you that people are being punished for saving and consuming less energy and then charged them with an extra fee? Do you think that's fair? Are you going to do something about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U188	Thank you. I will then also try to explain some of the issues that you have just touched on in my best knowledge. First of all, Elektrilevi, but also Elering's daily activities. You could say that this is a slightly different kind of entrepreneurship than you call it entrepreneurship at all. The difference from the classical business of Eesti Energia, in the present sense, where oil shale is mined and oil shale oil or electricity is produced, while being at world market prices in the municipality and operating under competitive conditions, lies in the fact that Elektrilevi and Elering are operating on a regulated market, i.e. they have their own solid productivity. They cannot generate higher profits or profits than the Competition Authority has provided for. This is the classic logic of a company operating on a regulated market. It is certainly worth paying attention to. There is no significance to who is currently the owner of a regulated market. There is the investment and the productivity resulting from the investment and the resulting impact on network charges or other prices. As far as the other side of the question is concerned, Elektrilevi sends how he sees the future, also to the Competition Authority for coordination. The competition authority can say that they want the charges to be brought down, because otherwise productivity is too high, it is not right on a regulated market. As regards really places where there is no or very low consumption, as you said, 250 kilowatts per year, by the way, and not six, according to my information, all of us, as taxpayers, must now maintain these places via Eesti Energia, i.e. although there is no consumption, must be readiness at all times. As I understand it, Elektrilevi has also said that for those who do not have consumption it is possible to use the money paid in the current year, two or three euros or five euros, which in turn depends on the capacity that anyone wants, which level of voltage should be managed by Eesti Energia on a rolling basis as a "prepayment" if consumption comes. That is the question of whether we should keep up thousands or tens of thousands of points where there really is no consumption, but what, as a 'cost', is distributed to all of us because we must be ready for consumption. The question is whether we should continue this way or not. I think this is also the point of discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U189	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U190	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I like your expression that you answer according to the best of knowledge. It's fair and right, that's what it's supposed to be. Therefore, I will ask again the question, which was not answered ten minutes ago, that was Mr Aivari's question. Indeed, the explanatory memorandum to the State Budget Act states that it is planned to increase the share capital of Eesti Energia by 20 million euros. For what reasons, for what purposes, why?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U191	Thank you. Now it is much better to answer, because there was a question before that that could be answered either way or one way. Eesti Energia has quite a few investment plans. If you look at the entire investment palette, in the coming years, there will be a size of 200 million, I may be wrong, but I suggest that the size of 200 million is also meant for Tootsi wind farm investments. If you ask me about this 20 million, I think I'd better specify it specifically, it was either a refining module or it was part of their potential future investment in a wind farm. But that's not a question at all, I'm going to be specific to you. There are hundreds, if not thousands, of lines in the state budget. I certainly wouldn't want to be inaccurate when I give you an answer. I will specify to you what was the purpose of this 20 million to be allocated to Eesti Energia. Ultimately, all investments always serve some longer purpose. None of the companies that are State-owned will be invested solely for the sake of the investment itself. It must finally bring some added value, it is a purchase of Botnica to break the ice in the Port of Tallinn, or it is an investment that will ultimately help Eesti Energia to comply better with environmental requirements. It needs to be clarified. I do not rule out that this could also have been intended to buy equipment resulting from some environmental requirements. But in order not to speculate, the aim is to get information, then I will specify and send a written reply to you and to Mr Sõerdi. As Mr Sõerd knows, I have always fulfilled this promise correctly, because if there is a need for knowledge, it needs to be met.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U192	For the information of my colleague Kalle Palling, there is an oral question for all members of the Riigikogu on this agenda. But I also have good news: after the questions have been asked and the representative of the interviewers has been on the board, you can come to the chair, throw more questions in the air if you wish, and then the Minister of Finance will be able to return to the chair and answer these questions if you wish. Next, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U193	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Legal audit of the behaviour and budgeting of the management of Eesti Energia was very serious. In the old democracies generally, with such an audit by the management of the state company, the council leaves. What's wrong with our picture? Our chairman of the board left, but he was compensated. Why? What are the conclusions that you and the Ministry have drawn from this legal audit?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U194	Thank you. I'd split that question into two parts. I will start from a distance, from the last end of your question, what conclusions have been drawn. In one answer to the question, I also described the fact that the company itself has now essentially reviewed a number of internal processes, reviewed its project management logic, the investment decision plan and the information exchange between the board and the management board. I would even say, and it has been said before, that a good crisis must not be wasted. The classics have quoted it from time to time. I have given as an example that the creation of the nomination committee in Estonia probably took place because things like that happened in the Port of Tallinn. Just then it became clear that we had to change the system a little bit, the window opened, if you could say so. Applying this to the case at hand, I believe that this was, to some extent, an input for the re-evaluation of the internal working process. It is certainly reasonable for the processes to be reviewed. I think that Eesti Energia is actually very well managed in its nature. He is the largest Estonian state-owned company in Estonia. Looking at the current internal working arrangements and various processes, internal auditing, each company has definitely some sort of small-scale... No, that is, of course, wrong to say, do not quote me, I mean that any company may be at risk of abuse, it can occur in any society, in any company. Our task is to minimize this potential maliciousness in one element or another. As far as previous decisions are concerned, I am not a lawyer, in that sense I cannot comment as a lawyer, I am not. But I think that when such an in-depth internal audit and an external audit were carried out, I understand that the law firm carried out a separate external audit, after all, these audits showed that there was no need to take the next steps. I have no better knowledge of what Mr. Ammas referred to. If it had been better to know, if it had been said that you can see, in relation to these and these changes, we should take these and these steps, though these steps would have been taken. But I repeat, different cases teach just that internal working arrangements can be improved. This is the case everywhere, including in the Riigikogu, that from time to time we make things better, given that there has been some error in everyday procedures somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U195	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U196	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'll meet you so you can answer the question, and I can't tell you later that you didn't answer the question. I'd like to talk to you about the nomination committee. It is a great idea in itself, so that good people can be elected to the boards of state companies. But I was concerned about this case, which my colleague, Kalle Palling, has already referred to, where a minister has allegedly wanted to interfere with the decision-making power of the Council. Did you check with the members of the Supervisory Board who were appointed to the Omniva Council yourself, whether or not such a thing happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U197	Thank you. I'll start with your introduction and finally get to your question. In the introduction, you spoke about the nomination committee and about it. I'll go over it. In my opinion, it is very reasonable that the nomination committee has been convened. The previous procedure, where there was no filter like the one you remember, were also members of the Riigikogu, mainly members of the Reform Party in the corporate councils, has now changed and I hope really irreversibly. In this context, we are also trying to make changes to the State Assets Act. Of course, there is nothing irreversible in the world that can always change the law, but I think it makes sense. In the final part of your question, you asked whether the Minister of Finance, after Urve Palo had said that he had not influenced the election, took the phone and asked his appointed members of the Council to excuse you if you had been affected. If that's the design of your question, I'll say no, I didn't start calling separately and asking if they were affected. I have no reason to doubt Urve Palo's words. I think that if someone had been very clearly affected, the members of the Council would have gone and said so to the relevant authorities and bodies. I have no reason to think that way. What's more, I'm going to open them up a little bit wider. Very rarely, life has shown it to people that they want to take on more tasks and more responsibility. It's usually like that. I can tell you here, with regard to the nomination committee, that under the current law, the Minister of Finance is currently entitled to appoint half of the members of the Council in all state companies. I promised that when the nomination committee was brought to life, I would be the one who proposed to remove this right from the Minister of Finance. Why, why do you need it? If the general meeting is specifically the Minister for the Environment, the Minister for the Economy or anyone else, why should the Minister for Finance specifically name someone? There is no need for this control because the filter works very well. The nomination committee will work exactly as necessary. I've made my proposal. If there is a legislative amendment, you will see that in the future the Minister of Finance will not have such competence in companies where he does not have a general meeting, he will not make proposals for his appointment. I think that is the case: there is a general meeting somewhere and he has his responsibility as a minister, and there is a nomination committee somewhere that makes proposals to involve as good specialists as possible in the board of one business enterprise or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U198	Thank you. No further questions. I would like to ask Mr Herkel to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U199	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you for these answers. Not all of the answers were quite satisfied with that. But we also admit that there are three or four issues in question that would actually require a separate approach: the question of Toots' wind farm, the issue of Enefiti, the placing on the market, the appointment committee. The questions came up with more branches, be they network charges, the state budget, let alone Omniva, which goes much further. I hope that colleagues, for their part, will complement here with one motive or another, and I will stick to one thing in my summary speech. This is perhaps the most important thing that we touched twice on issues, first me and then Krista Aru maybe even more succinctly in the sense that then you answered a little bit. This is precisely a question of the confusion surrounding the construction of Enefit280. In your reply, you somehow slipped over it and gave the impression that the increase in the investment came from unforeseen circumstances that what was at the time is now difficult to assess, the time has changed and the circumstances have changed. It cannot be quite satisfied, nor can it be that the conclusion is to change intra-group arrangements and that the Internal Audit Department will assess and review development projects in more detail. In fact, the situation was much more bizarre, and in the end it came to the conclusion that, since the members of the Council were not aware of the results of the internal audit, the Council ordered a separate legal audit on this whole thing, which cost the ordinary person a completely cosmic sum. It was ordered from Varul's law firm and it's about 200,000 euros. After all, the main question is not what you indicated that the plant is now running at 90% of the expected capacity, i.e. it is still improving. It is still a matter of the confusion that arose between the management and the council. How could it be that the Council was shown to be significantly lower than it actually was? Indeed, something is wrong with this picture. Here is one of two: whether the Council was not at the height of its tasks, which certainly should be brought to the attention of the nomination committee, or perhaps even worse, the management did not inform the Council of all the circumstances that it would need to be informed about. In any case, as I said, in your response to Krista Aru, you approached this fundamental issue, but you did not really have a position on what happened then. As a minister, we think you should have that position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U200	Next, please speak to Kalle Balling!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U201	Good evening, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! We are discussing a very long and, perhaps, a very fundamental question here at a late hour. As Andres Herkel said, there are a lot of important questions in this. I will start with what I myself asked about at the nomination committee. It's a good thing to talk about today's questioning. Indeed, no question has been asked or asked whether Minister Palo intervened in the election of the Chairman of the Management Board of Omniva, whether he threatened to replace half of the Supervisory Board or the entire Supervisory Board if his candidate was not elected or if he did not intervene. I, of course, think that Urve Palo may have believed in one or the other, but he was free to intervene, but he was free not to intervene. It was possible to intervene freely because the world-view difference, as he himself has said in the newspaper columns, really existed between him and the candidates for leadership. One candidate for leadership saw clearly the potential for the development of the postal market, the development of this company, looking at the world's internet trade, and was taking a very serious position there. This is now the former Chairman of Omniva's Board. The second approach was whether there was a post office in every rural area, where, in addition to coming to buy toilet paper and a pack of cigarettes, they might also go for some letters. I think life has made its corrections. When did you send the last postcard or letter in the envelope? The communication tools have just changed. That doesn't mean we should shut down the post offices. However, we should also look outside to really pay our people or make our people cheaper services and earn the necessary income from foreign markets, perhaps from the sale of another product or service. But that's whether the Minister intervened or not. On 19 January, when you look at the chronology, the Government of the Republic reported that the appointment committee of the councils of state companies would begin its work. The future leader of this committee, Erkki Raasuke, who is indeed, I think, one of the main people who created the nomination committee in the first place, was appointed and the other members were also appointed. It was, I repeat, January 19th. A month later, on 20 February, news came in where a member of the Council who wishes to remain unknown quotes Urve Palot, who said that if you do not choose a new leader instead of Kärmas, I will replace the Council. What's bothering me? I think Urve Palo is by itself the most powerful politician in the social democrats. It makes perfect sense that he wants to introduce himself and give his constituents a clear message, to give the clear impression that he is leading his ministry. It's politically perfectly understandable. But what is completely incomprehensible is the behaviour of the Minister of Finance. Also, the behaviour of the Prime Minister, who had just reported that all the members of the Council are now appointed from among the elected people. Why didn't they contradict that statement? Why didn't they check? Exactly the same thing Maris Lauri asked that the Minister of Finance appoints half the members of the Council. Make a call to one and see if there was such a threat or not! People talk about how the era of the Reform Party in Estonia has ended and how the members of the Riigikogu have finally been recalled from the Soviets, but then such things are allowed to happen. Doubts remain that have not been finally overturned. That's really what's going on here today. Again, it wasn't the subject of today's inquiry, but maybe you could have just said... Is it possible for me to have more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U202	Yes, please, three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U203	Very good! Look, I haven't been here in a long time, I don't know this time. But I think that's what would draw the line now. Perhaps the Minister of Finance will find time to respond to it sometime. And even if he didn't answer, I think the nomination committee would simply deserve that a month after the committee was called, there could be no such doubts. After all, there are respected people there, and I really do not want a minister to veto the people they propose. But it has also been heard that, in fact, ministers still have the right to veto some people. They may be very good specialists, but if the Minister doesn't like them, they can be vetoed. The second topic where I thought it would be wise to say the word is Enefit280. An enormously necessary project in itself, innovation in the production of oil shale oil in Estonia. It makes sense that things are becoming more expensive because they are basically a tailor's suit that was made for the first time. The management process could have been better. As a member of the Council at the time, I think that the goals set for the Bureau itself were probably a little too high, a little too tight on the timetable. It was not taken into account that the tailor's suit is actually being made, rather than putting up a box product. In this sense, I think that society, the members of the Council and the general meeting would have understood very clearly if the period of the framework launch and the start-up period had been longer from the very beginning, as it was now. The fact that some three months after the plant was completed could already work at 100% capacity was in itself heating expectations too high. However, I do not agree with my colleague, Mr Herkel, who said that internal audits and additional analyses cannot be carried out, because the sums they spend are huge and huge. I think that if there is no such knowledge at this level of specificity, then the analysis must be ordered from the outside. It is far worse to have a collective dissecting of the internal affairs of a state company, I do not know, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, for example. Even the fact that we are discussing these matters in such detail here, but at the same time we are discussing such a lack of information, is perhaps not the best practice. In this sense, the Ministry of Finance is moving in the right direction. Indeed, the state has a very clear number of companies in which it wants to keep participation for some purpose and which generate dividend income for the State, and has chosen some kind of number of companies where it is going to dispose of a holding, where it is not really of such a strategic interest. Perhaps we should not discuss collectively, either in the Committee on Economic Affairs or in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, whether a mistake was made by the head of a particular company or by the council or by whoever made the mistake. It is always better, but in general I think that Enefit280 is a major innovation and Estonia's success story in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U204	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U205	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! We all remember these famous IRL slogans that home expenses are down, and we have certainly heard that IRL is a company-friendly party. What is happening in Eesti Energia, which is under the authority of the Minister of the IRL, all points to the opposite. I will give an illustration of only one aspect, that is, the part concerning the production of renewable energy, rather, the production of wind energy in Enefit or Eesti Energia. The one that relates to Toots' wind farm. There are also known entrepreneurs in Estonia who are ready to make wind farms. Their situation is seriously complicated. If anyone wanted to make wind farms in Ida-Virumaa, the Defence Forces or the Department of Defense have imposed restrictions, claiming that the wind generators are hidden by radar. At the same time, the local inhabitants of Hiiumaa are very opposed to the wind farm built in the water. Tootsi is actually one of the few places in Estonia where such a wind farm can be built at all without any problems of protection or problems with the local population. And now there will be Eesti Energia, who will order the land valuation report, who will be given the price they want, which is clearly cheaper than the usual price. What is particularly strange or cynical is that when we look at the electricity market law, which was recently read in this Chamber, it shows that it is now wind power producers that will receive the renewable energy payment until 2021, while other renewable energy producers will be stopped paying it in their current form. [[Interjection.]] Sorry? Yes, now there will be a new scheme, the old scheme will end in July 2018. All wind-energy private operators know that the only company that can emerge during this period is the Tootsi wind farm, of course, if the litigation is not too long. Which means that Eesti Energia is essentially dealing with the fact that its wind farm would receive an extraordinary, I don't know, from 2021 an even 12 years higher renewable energy fee, which is a big problem for us as electricity consumers from the start. To sum it up. Everything is not quite right with this large monopoly company, which increases our domestic costs and acts as a monopoly compared to private companies. This is not the way a public enterprise should operate; it should not be just a dividend pumping machine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U206	There's no more words. Would the Minister of Finance like a word? Yes, please, Minister of Finance Sven Sester, back to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U207	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I also made some notes, and I try to say something from these notes. I'm trying to answer a few keywords. I'm gonna start with the last one. I was a little surprised to say that it was disturbing, because in a parliamentary state there is the highest body of the Riigikogu, and from there there is a people who chooses the Riigikogu that you, a good performer, confuse the facts and estimates. You're fretting a little, sometimes you're making assessments, but if you repeat them several times, it's starting to feel like they're like facts. You say that Eesti Energia itself ordered the Act of the Lands, etc. It wasn't like that! No act of land was ordered by Eesti Energia. Or, let's say, such estimates that in my administration, everything points to the opposite. Whatever points to the opposite, it stays somewhere in the air, it's like something's the other way around, and it's like everything's wrong. Actually, it's not like that. Judging is always what it is. Estimates may be given in this sense that giving them is not forbidden to anyone, but I really do say that I think you should be fair in the assessments. Listening to your assessments, I thought you weren't being fair. I thought I'd come and say it here. You shouldn't be shooting Eesti Energia. Eesti Energia has worked very correctly, and I think that we can be sure that their overall concept is something that should not be ashamed of by the taxpayer. You are the chairman of the Anti-Corruption Commission yourself, and neither you nor anyone else will speak on behalf of one company or another. I mean, that'd be a crime. That couldn't happen. As far as possible litigation is concerned that they may be very long, here I agree with you. In that sense, your sentences have a grain of truth in them. Since there are clearly interested parties who want to delay because of the delay, this is definitely the point of consideration, for the future, also for the country. I think that in the near future, the state should take a decision as to whether it will continue the trial in any case. The trial has only just begun; on 22 March, I think the first meetings, the beginning of the legal dispute and the next hearing have been scheduled for May. It is clear that the other interested party has a desire to stall as long as possible. In any case, they keep digging, etc. I'm sure there's a place to think for the country, too, because what are we talking about right now? After all, we are talking about the government's desire to bring 49% of the renewable energy company to the stock market. As far as Tootsi wind farm is concerned, Eesti Energia has, by the way, carried out cost-benefit studies since 2011. Since 2011! It is not that last November, with the coming of the new coalition, someone became interested in making a wind farm. No, no, a bunch of research has been done. I don't know how much has been spent to find out what environmental impacts are, and so on. This process has been prepared for a very long time. In fact, the aim is that not only one or the other privately owned energy company would be part of it, but the entire Estonian people, given that half of the renewable energy company should be sold. But I can assure you that you're probably right about this, if you say that litigation can last a long time. Maybe at some point we should discuss the need to make some sudden decisions. As for, dear Kalle, your speech, we are old acquaintances, but some things have struck me a little bit. I quote: 'A member of the Council who wishes to remain unknown has said... 'Hey, what's going on here? Some member of the Council who wishes to remain unfamiliar said so, and then we come to the fact that it is interesting why the Minister does not call and question the members of the Council. And in the end, there'll be doubts. Hey, what is this? You're the fetus' myth, and then you start discussing it. It's like the good old Middle Week spirit in the Central Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U208	Would the waitress like an extra time? Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U209	Thank you. I'm not gonna use three minutes. I do not think I have mentioned the name of the speaker I am talking about. No, I still named Kalle. You also apologized yourself and said that this was not the subject of today's debate, but I saw the course you had, the political direction you wanted to take in the context of this question. As a politician, I understood that. I just say that if you finally quote a member of the Council who wishes to remain unknown and say that there are doubts, we will end up in some sort of total paranoia world. I believe that you yourself would not want to live in such a world and, afterwards, to say that it is interesting why the Minister did not call, the doubts remained up, and the questions are more than answers, that in fact there should be a committee at all to find out whether or not there is a complexion and whether or not there is a true basis for the doubts. I've seen so much of this in my life, having been in politics for a long time. So let's just drop it. If there are doubts and doubts and some people say he's been affected, he should come and talk about it. Then you can also argue. On the other hand, the Minister has made it clear that he has not done so. That's all I have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U210	Reply is Kalle Palling's word, two minutes on the spot. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U211	Thank you. Since the minister was really so kind and mentioned my name, I have the opportunity to reply from here. I understand from Sven that he does the noble thing, has convened a nomination committee, has brought Erkki Raasuke and his ideas to the government table, and has achieved that the nomination committee was actually put into practice. Indeed, great praise to Sven and to the entire Ministry of Finance! But where I find something lacking, it is that if, one month after the nomination committee was brought to life, doubts remain in the air and an article appears, where there is a very clear reference to the member of the Council who wished to remain unknown was not my idea, it was taken from this article, where it was precisely in this wording, then these doubts could have been refuted. To say that, as of 17 January, all Soviet members in the Republic of Estonia will be appointed only on the basis of the proposals of the nomination committee and on any threat in style, that if you do not choose another leader for Omniva, I will replace the council, there will be no place. Whether the minister claims whether he did or didn't do it is once and that's it. But I think we're gonna get this over with. We have tried to convince each other enough here, but still there remains a foolish doubt as to whether this nomination committee is to the end, one hundred percent independent, or ministers still have attractive and unpleasant candidates, whose appointment they can veto, be they board members in companies or board members. If such possibilities are ruled out and the nomination committees are not going to limit them by using them, then everything is actually fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U212	I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U213	Aivar Sõerdi, Urve Tiidus, Maris Lauri, Hanno Pevkuri, Toomas Kivimägi, Igor Gräzini, Jüri Jaanson, Lauri Luige, Ants Laaneots, Kalle Laaneti, Madis Milling, Urmas Kruuse, Eerik-Niles Krossi and Meelis Mälberg submitted an inquiry on 23 March 2017 (No 342). Secretary of Finance Sven Sester will answer the question, but on behalf of the inquisitors, please speak to Aivar Sõerdi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U214	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Money laundering undermines the stability of the public financial sector and threatens the economy of each country. Today we have heard of extremely tragic events quite close to us here, in the neighboring Russian metropolitan city of St Petersburg. It is clear that money laundering is one of the sources of terrorist financing. In analysing today's events in St. Petersburg, it can be concluded that everything refers to a terrorist act. Estonia is a small country, but we must not underestimate our place in the international system to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. Journalist projecters focusing on organised crime and corruption recently announced in the media that about 1.6 billion dollars of Russian-origin criminal money has allegedly moved through Estonian banks. The Estonian branch of Danske Bank is at the heart of the episodes concerning Estonia in the massive money laundering case, through which approximately 1.2 billion dollars of suspected money laundering transactions have been made. Inquiries from the Minister want to know that the Minister is the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Authority Board, whether the Minister was informed of the extent to which everything was going on and whether Estonian commercial banks are associated with money laundering schemes worth USD 1.6 billion. I have not noticed that the Minister has so far spoken in public on this subject. Inquiries also want to know how it is possible that if the Danish Financial Inspectorate prepared an extensive report to the Estonian branch of Danske Bank already in 2015, no criminal proceedings have been initiated to investigate suspected cases of money laundering in Estonia and no criminal fines have been imposed on commercial banks. As far as criminal proceedings are concerned, in the Postimees last week, the prosecutor's office has explained these reasons a little. One reason is that Russia is known not to have shown willingness to cooperate with our law enforcement authorities. But when hands are tied in criminal proceedings, the more attention needs to be paid to preventive measures. We have a specific question: why is it that, at the beginning of March, or before this comprehensive scheme became public, the Ministry of Finance sent a new version of the AML/CFT Act to the coordination circle. It provides for a maximum fine of EUR 400000. There are still penalty payments, but we also read in the paper last week that the Financial Inspectorate wants these fines to be repeated. The directive, which is known to be transposed by this anti-money laundering law, provides for tens of times higher fines. Let us recall the recent draft Law on Securities Markets in the Riigikogu. In this we raised the penalty and penalty rates to EUR 15 million, the penalty money to 15% of the company's turnover. So we have a number of questions and we want answers from the Minister in order to deal seriously with this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U215	Finance Minister Sven Sester will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U216	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will answer the questions you have asked concerning money laundering. First the question and then the answer to each specific question. The first question: 'As Chairman of your Finance Minister and Financial Supervision Authority Board, were you informed that some Estonian commercial banks might be involved in money laundering schemes of nearly 1.6 billion dollars from Russia and, if you were informed, when did this information get to you? ' According to the Financial Supervision Authority Act, the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority are managed and organised by the Management Board. The Council shall plan and supervise the operation of the inspection. As Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, I support the Financial Supervision Authority in its activities to prevent money laundering and terrorism. Under my leadership, the Financial Supervision Authority has adopted the Financial Supervision Authority's strategy 2016-2018. By 2010, the prevention of money laundering will be a priority. The Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority has informed and will continue to inform the Supervisory Board of its powers. I am the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Authority Council, due to the position of Minister of Finance, i.e. on the basis of §8 (2) and §12 (1) of the Financial Supervision Authority Act, with effect from 9 April 2015. The circumstances and the procedures involved in your inquiry include periods when I was not Chairman of the Financial Supervision Authority Board. This, of course, does not stop me from going forward with questions and answering them. I must also point out that, as Chairman of the Financial Supervision Authority Board, I have a duty to preserve supervisory secrecy under the Financial Supervision Authority Act, which is why I can only deal with the circumstances which the Financial Supervision Authority has disclosed in compliance with the law. The second question: 'How is it possible that, in a situation where the Estonian branch of Danske Bank has previously been prescribed by the Financial Supervision Authority in relation to the prevention of money laundering and terrorism, and after the Danish Financial Supervision Authority prepared an extensive report to the Estonian branch of Danske Bank in 2015, no criminal proceedings have been initiated in Estonia in relation to suspected cases of money laundering, nor have commercial banks been ordered to impose any fines? ' Financial supervision shall be carried out in order to contribute to enhancing the stability, integrity, transparency and efficiency of the financial sector, reducing systemic risks and preventing the achievement of the criminal objectives of the financial sector. It is up to the Financial Supervision Authority to decide which measures to take in different situations. I cannot comment specifically on individual supervisory procedures, but I can say that as Chairman of the Financial Supervision Authority's Board, I am familiar with the extensive control acts and also the coercive measures implemented by the Financial Supervision Authority. The Financial Supervision Authority shall not act as a money laundering investigating body and shall not be competent to deal with criminal offences. The prosecution's office will decide to open criminal proceedings if there are any signs of crime. In the case of a money laundering crime, money must be derived from criminal activities. Especially in matters originating in Russia, it is usually difficult to obtain information about criminal or any kind of origin. And that is not only for us, but also for other countries of the European Union. Criminal proceedings are usually opened in multi-country cases in the country where the criminal activity has been planned and managed by persons and most of the evidence. In the specific case, Estonia was a so-called transit country from which, unfortunately, the sums of money passed through, but we were only a link in one chain, not the beginning or end point of the chain. Estonia is always ready to respond to requests for legal aid and cooperates with law enforcement authorities in other countries. Question 3: 'Please explain why Estonia's penal policy for not implementing preventive measures for money laundering and terrorist financing is more lenient than in many other countries. At the beginning of March, the Ministry of Finance has sent a new draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing to the coordination circle, which sets a maximum fine of EUR 400000 to be imposed on legal persons. Is this a sufficient ceiling given the size of commercial banks' activities and the importance of hedging money laundering risks? The EU directive would allow the application of tens of times higher rates. The law amending the Law on Securities Market and Financial Supervision, adopted recently by the Riigikogu, raised fines in cases of infringement of the rules on securities markets, for example, including penalties of up to EUR 15 million or up to 15% of the company's total turnover. Why is the management of money laundering risks not a priority area in criminal policy? ' Different laws, including the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act, must be governed by the general rules of the Penal Code when imposing sanctions for misdemeanour. From 2015 onwards, the Penal Code provides that a court or an extra-judicial tribunal may impose a fine of EUR 100000 to a legal person of EUR 400000 for a misdemeanour. By the way, the previous ceiling was EUR 32000. The draft law provides for financial penalties more than ten times higher than in the current version in the proposed misdemeanours. At the same time, the ceiling is set on the basis of the maximum amount of EUR 400000 allowed under the general part of the Penal Code. As a result of the 4AMLD and, in particular, Article 59 thereof, the draft law sent to coordination has led to much higher enforcement rates. In the current version, the Anti-money Laundering Act allows for the first application of up to EUR 1300 for non-compliance with an administrative act, with EUR 6000 for the next time. According to the draft law, for the first time in the case of a natural person for failure to comply with an administrative act or for improper execution, EUR 5000 and up to EUR 50000 may be applied in the future in order to enforce the same obligation up to a maximum of EUR 5 million. In the case of a legal person, these amounts shall be up to EUR 32000 for the first time and up to EUR 100000 for the next time, up to a total of EUR 5 million or up to 10% of the total annual turnover in order to enforce the same obligation. Question 4: 'Because Estonian commercial banks are suspected and associated with the world's most recent money laundering event, how can the international media record of this case damage the Estonian financial system, the business environment and the possibility of making dollar payments necessary for the functioning of foreign trade? ' This case is truly regrettable. It involves several countries and undoubtedly also poses a reputational risk. The international environment forces banks to improve their customer due diligence procedures. Money laundering and terrorism are also increasingly challenging banks, investigative bodies and financial supervision. The payment of the dollar is based on mutual agreement between credit institutions. The Parties shall assess the rules applicable to them and the risk environment which may exist independently of the rules applicable to the other Party and the prevailing environment. Estonia can improve its system by processing the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing quickly as well as by more effective supervision. On the other hand, it should be taken into account that the anti-money laundering system as a whole should not prevent entrepreneurship and that the attempt to prevent risks should lead to a situation where it is cheaper not to provide banking services at all. If banking services become inaccessible to certain sectors or businesses, other channels will be used for commercial activities where the level of control is lower and the possibility of being missed is lower. Therefore, regulation in this area must be carefully balanced between the application of control measures and the promotion of legitimate practices. As this was an international and very large-scale activity, we are ready to make a clear contribution to international cooperation between law enforcement and supervisory authorities. Estimates of the Estonian anti-money laundering system as a whole have so far been high, but it seems that possible holes in the system need to be dealt with even more carefully. At the same time, we understand that no matter how well the law is written, enforcing the law is a very resource-intensive and difficult task. For multinational companies, i.e. large multinational groups, supervisory cooperation with other countries cannot be overcome or reversed. Question 5: 'What additional measures does the Ministry of Finance intend to take to mitigate the risks of money laundering in addition to the preparation of the new version of the Money Laundering and Prevention of Terrorism Act mentioned above? ' The new law calls on the government to carry out a periodic assessment of the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing, which includes both an analysis of the appropriateness of the legislation and an assessment of the allocation of resources for the implementation of the law. It is important to focus resources exactly where they are most needed. This could mean improving supervision, tougher penal policies and new regulations concerning riskier sectors. The measures are based on risks and all these activities can be coordinated by the Ministry of Finance as a policy designer. Other authorities need to be involved in the implementation work and the draft therefore provides for the establishment of a high-level government committee to organise risk assessment and implementation. As Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, I refer once again to the Financial Supervision Authority's strategy 2016. By 2010, one of the priorities of which is the prevention of money laundering, with an emphasis on reducing the risks associated with servicing non-residents. Question 6: Is the Ministry of Finance prepared and able to prepare the new version of the AML/CFT Act within the prescribed deadline, given that the draft will have to transpose the European Union AML IV Directive by 26 June 2017 at the latest? By what date will you submit the bill to the Riigikogu? ' The first round of coordination of the draft has already been completed and comments are currently being processed. The draft was submitted to the second round of coordination on 30 March and the draft could be discussed by the Government of the Republic at the last meeting of this month if the Ministry of Justice were to be approved. In this case, the draft procedure in the Riigikogu could begin at the beginning of May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U217	You have questions too. First, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U218	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Between 2011 and 2014, your Financial Supervision Authority Board was not chairman. But when did you, as the chairman of the Financial Supervision Authority Council, find out about this very serious suspicion?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U219	Thank you. My need to know arose at the moment I became Chairman of the Financial Supervision Authority Board. As far as what happened at Danske Bank is concerned, some cover will be off today, or information will be more public. These inspections were carried out in 2014. The first inspection was in March 2014, the second in June 2014 and in July 2014. This second control was more extensive and already covered all aspects of the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing in the bank. In essence, the Financial Supervision Authority identified irregularities in the organisation's own design. The control mechanisms were not what they should have been. In July 2015, the Financial Supervision Authority issued an injunction for the elimination of infringements. So, yes, my need to know arose after I became ex officio Chairman of the Financial Supervision Authority as Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U220	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U221	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, I'm sorry, but you still didn't answer my benchmate's question. I admit you may not have had to know that, but I'm asking you straight. Did you know that? Now, as a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I have, for two years, listened to the Financial Supervision Authority's review of the activities of a given year. The subject of money laundering is marked there, but not very dramatic. Are the regulations that the Financial Supervision Authority makes to some financial institution all the problems that it detects whether it is a public matter or whether it is covered by some kind of business secret, so that the public, including the members of the Riigikogu, does not need to know about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U222	Thank you. I'll start at the beginning. You said I didn't answer the question, I thought I did. The specific question was, when did I find out? As I said very specifically, my knowledge arose when I became ex officio chairman of the Financial Supervision Authority as Minister of Finance. Thus, it is automatically fixed when my need to know, or even my obligation to know, arose. The other part of the question was the extent to which one or the other information was public. As you know, everything depends on the importance of information. Some information is classified until such time as the relevant information is released, some information is classified for five years, while a certain level of classification requires a very long period of secrecy. I'm sure you can't hit me with one table here. The subject we are talking about today is public. We know exactly when the investigation was conducted, we know what the problems were, we know what the proposals were made by the Financial Supervision Authority, so that we can discuss this calmly. It may be expected that, at some point in time, when the Financial Supervision Authority was communicating with a particular controlled person, this information was not yet publicly available. This is natural, if there is still a discussion between the two parties, it cannot be disclosed. After the precept has been made, once there is clear guidance on how to proceed, the Financial Supervision Authority can also act in accordance with the law. But once again, it's never up to the Chairman of the Board, so he's gonna take a decision, make it public or not. Everything goes according to the law, the law determines every detail. Before we spoke about Eesti Energia and I praised Eesti Energia. I cannot fail to say the same about the Financial Supervision Authority. I also have a long-standing experience of working with the Financial Supervision Authority when I was chairman of the Monetary Commission. They have been to the Committee on Monetary Affairs to talk about their daily activities. I can assure you that they are extremely pedantic in the performance of their duties, extremely correct, extremely precise in the sense that they do not exceed their powers. I have seen, as Chairman of the Council, that this board is doing a commendable job. To avoid praising them in general terms, let me give an example. If you look at the number of non-residents' bank accounts in different banks in Estonia and compare it with our closest neighbours, you will see that we do not have this percentage as high as in many other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U223	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U224	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In my opinion, there is no reason to doubt that our Financial Supervision Authority and our law enforcement authorities are sufficiently competent to carry out this investigation. Again, why we are discussing these various details here, let the results come, then it is what we are discussing. My question relates to questions 4 and 6 from the heirs and concerns the development potential of the financial technology sector in Estonia. I am thinking of the same modern term fintech and the steps we took to get the e-residency started so that it would be possible to open a bank account without going to the office. How much impact could this case have on the development of the financial technology sector? We're not really turning off the tap now, are we? We would try to come up with a reasonable solution to prevent money laundering, but we would have taken exactly as many steps as necessary, not three times more, just in case. In fact, in many cases modern technology is much safer than the one in which a person manages the processes and can make these decisions for us or at least help make those decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U225	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U226	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who are still here late at night to do your job, and a good minister! I am really still worried that, now that we are going back into the fight against money laundering and terrorism, we will not return to history at the same time to the time when the billboards were riddled, things were done manually and mechanical barriers were built. If you wanted to be cynical, you could argue that the simplest way to fight terrorism would probably be to ban cash. Have you seen any bank transfers made to a terrorist? I guess there's a briefcase of dollars or euros going there, and things can be done. But maybe it's different. I don't know, I haven't been in contact, but it does seem to me to be a much more effective measure, even though it's probably more of a fantasy world and it's not really gonna happen. But we have quite a lot of things in our power to do in this area and save people's money. A well-known entrepreneur in the financial world, Indrek Neivelt, has said that in fact, we will probably have no idea what banking will be like in five years' time. But we imagine that it is much easier than it is now and much more sustainable for all consumers of banking and other financial services. Neivelt has also set one modest goal: in a few years, thanks to the development of financial technology, Estonian people could save 1% of gross domestic product, which is about 200 million euros. In my opinion, this is what we should be paying attention to, not thinking of a bank tax, for example, to fill budget gaps, which actually does not come from anywhere but from bank customers. Our thinking moves in the opposite direction, if modern thinking turned towards an open world could move. We should allow the Estonian financial technology sector to develop faster than it can now develop. We talked about e-residency in the round of questions and answers. Indeed, it is very good that last summer a legislative amendment was adopted that a bank account can be opened without coming to the office. The minister gave an example from the remote that it has really been tried to open an account in such a way that the person and the name on the document do not match. It must not be allowed to discourage itself. In fact, technology can identify these things and avoid them in the same way as in the office on the spot. Let us see how many e-residency requests have come from Britain alone, who has decided to carry out an experiment and leave the European Union, thus losing a great deal of money and the trust of their citizens. After the referendum alone, almost 600 people have joined the e-residency programme. Following the launch of Article 50, the submission of applications has doubled. I think this is a very important indicator. When you think about how much money each e-resident company already leaves in the Estonian economy in the form of consumption of various services per year, it is about 3,000 euros. And that's the minimum because a lot of people will definitely leave more. I think there's a place to grow. If we put the words off-shore and possible money laundering and e-residency in one sentence here in the Riigikogu, also in today's debate, then we are just stupid. We know that Estonia is an e-state where every move leaves a trail. Taavi Kotka has said well that we, and no one outside Estonia is talking about it, are talking about putting off-shore and e-residency together. Why are we, like, tearing up this e-residency? Of course, all these risks must be avoided, but I think there is already one of the harshest environments in Estonia when it comes to the fight against money laundering and terrorism. And we have done the right thing, and we want to keep our financial environment sound. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U227	Does the Minister of Finance want to come to the speaker's desk again? Yes, he does. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance to speak again.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U228	I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U229	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Honourable colleagues Krista, Ain, Jüri, Aivar, Kalle and Maris! My dear penguin, Krista Aru, loves to bring a variety of historical parallels to one question or another. Since he won't take the floor today, I'll do it for him. In fact, a little less than 100 years ago, the issue of money laundering was discussed very seriously in this very Chamber. This was discussed in several sessions. The meeting room included members of the Riigikogu and other interested parties who sat on the balcony, full of and discussed the activities of the famous Harju Pank, Konstantin Päts and other people involved in washing Russian money. At the time, it ended with Harju Pank shut down and several guilty persons went to prison. Compared to this, our debate here is in very soft colors, let's say so. We're discussing what could be a fine for money laundering. In order for you to understand how big this problem really is, I will expand my colleague Aivar's speech with a few sentences and the bill written in the inquiry. It is said here that nearly 1.6 billion euros have been moved through Estonian banks, but this whole story includes 20.8 billion euros. 96 countries have been reportedly involved. This is a global problem and showed us all, here and anywhere else, how powerless the world's banking system is today to prevent the movement of massive amounts of criminal money. It's a pretty depressing experience. Of course, in my opinion, we in the world, both here and in the world, are a little ashamed of the fact that this situation is so bad, and consequently they want to talk about these things a little bit under the variety. When the Postman journalists, in cooperation with their colleagues in other countries, had achieved certain results and went to the officials to ask if they had achieved the right results, the officials looked at them in wonder: 'Wait, how do you know this? " I read from this attitude that if journalists had not achieved their results on the basis of international joint work, we would not know. That is why I asked the Minister of Finance several times how public these issues should be, how public these issues could be, so that everything would be legitimate, but we would still perceive the scale of the problem. Of course, large, powerful banks are ashamed to admit their problems, that their leaders and other employees have ignored such things, either by sloppyness, ignorance, or, sorry, perhaps by greed. And the state, in turn, in the identity of several institutions as ashamed to admit that such a problem is. Perhaps in these years, the Financial Supervision Authority's reviews, for example, spoke about these problems in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which I unfortunately do not know in more detail. Excuse me, can I have some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U230	Thank you. I think your question has been raised from the very right angle. In fact, they are often not directly contradictory, but to some extent exclusive processes. If your party partner, with the emphasis on his question, was to say that if there was no banking service, no one would be able to make a mistake in this respect. You can only get lost by someone who does something. You pointed it out to the other side that maybe something else will not be done at all. True, in that sense, your questioning is correct. In one response, I tried to point out how to find a balance in the sense that, on the one hand, the origin of the person and the money would be controlled and understood by the bank, and, on the other hand, it would be possible to revive the economy. The opening of all our e-residency and bank accounts should not be done in such a way that you first come to Estonia to become an e-resident, and then you come to Estonia to open a bank account and I don't know what else. We should be proud to have an e-state. How do you put these two things together now? True, so far, the best knowledge has been to find a golden center. On the one hand, banks have been given the right to open bank accounts from a distance to e-residents, but at the same time there are certain obligations. Once you become an e-resident, there is a difference between an e-resident and a non-resident: you have actually had some communication with the Estonian state when you become an e-resident. It will then be possible to open a bank account with certain procedures from a distance, using a video bridge. Well, we'll try to make sure both sides don't happen so that in the end, with a good plan, you actually destroy another plan. I can tell you, too, that a good questioner knows this, given that he has also communicated himself a lot in this sector, that banks have been quite careful when using these video bridges. There are quite a number of discovered desires to open a remote bank account so that in fact, this wisher is not the person he has tried to perform as. The banks have a database on this. There are a number of factors that the banks have realised that they are not the person that someone presents themselves with the video bridge. But this so-called balance search remains. I think the representative of the heirs was right in making an introduction in this respect. We must make the maximum effort to put a stop to money laundering and terrorism, to minimise the work of this sector. I'm sorry to talk about this for too long, but life goes on. As Minister for Finance, I also go to the Eurogroup and Ecofin, and I know that the Commission has made new proposals regarding money laundering and its fourth directive. For example, a completely new register of actual beneficiaries is something that should be created. There is also a desire to get a clear picture of the regulation of virtual currencies, the virtual currencies, is an important aspect that was hardly mentioned in the past. The fourth directive on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, pay attention! More and more attention is being paid to all Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U231	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U232	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Unfortunately, this is not the first case where the Estonian branch of Danske Bank has attracted public attention with a negative circumstance. Much smaller in financial terms, but a politically very sensitive case was the accusation concerning the purchase of votes in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. This money is also said to have been discussed in the Estonian press at the end of January through the Estonian branch of Danske Bank, and a Latvian bank was also in play. Is this case somehow on the table between you and the Financial Supervision Authority? Could there be any circumstances at stake here that, as far as you know, could possibly relate to the issue of money laundering?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U233	Thank you. All cases on the table must be properly reviewed. You can certainly also ask about one case or another. I do not want to comment specifically on one or the other case at this time in order not to give inaccurate facts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U234	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U235	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U236	For the past two years, as a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I have succeeded in listening to these reviews. Yes, I congratulate the Financial Supervision Authority: these summaries have been constructive and very seriously the subject of money laundering has also been marked. But I'm sorry, on the basis of these reviews, at least the new members of the committee didn't understand or weren't supposed to realize that the banks operating in Estonia could also be involved in money laundering on such a scale. The question is whether the public should have known about these injunctions. There was no answer to that today. Fines have also been the issue. My colleague, Aivar Sõerd, has already pointed out that there are stricter levels in other parts of the world. As I look at the subject and google it, I found that a Swedish institution like our Financial Supervision Authority has fined Nordea in 2015 when Swedish kroons are converted into euros, EUR 5.3 million and EUR 3.7 million in Handelsbanken. This really is a whole different scale than what we're talking about here. The question arises that, if there were not a directive and there was no compulsion, that we had to transpose the European Union's Fourth Money Laundering Directive by 26 June, whether we would be doing this so actively, or whether we would rather, like an ostrich, put our heads in the sand and keep quiet about it. These are the questions that have been troubling the whole story and, in fact, the answers of today's Minister of Finance. The Minister told me that he responded very accurately and said, for example, that he needed to know. Sorry, the need to know doesn't amount to knowing. I still didn't understand when the Minister found out about anything. The need arose, but was the need satisfied? The Minister is shaking his mind that it is probably hopeless for members of the Riigikogu to explain this difficult problem. But today, unfortunately, it did not work out in the best possible way. Maybe some other time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U237	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U238	We must continue in this direction. Let us see what technology allows! Let us see what e-governance, built up by us, really leaving a trail of every move behind, where many e-governance services have become secure in addition to our own security solutions, with blockchain technology! There is a great deal of these opportunities, and I urge both the Ministry, FinanceEstonia and all the other people who are active in this area to bear in mind the objective that this new anti-money laundering law, which we are taking over our legal space in the form of this directive, can be sensible and leave financial technology room for companies to grow. I think that Estonia could be not against conventional banking in the European Union, but a balanced advocate for the other half, who says that people will inevitably make their choice. Just as people prefer to press the app on the phone and order their services through the sharing economy instead of calling the regular taxi, so they don't want to go to the bank office anymore and prefer TransferWise for bank transfers, for example, rather than some expensive banking services. For nothing, it has become one of Estonia's most successful start-ups. Still because people use it, it's just convenient. Let's give them some room! Rather, let us try to give them a boost, and we are spokespersons in this area in the European Union. We have six months to hold the Presidency. The Minister of Finance has at his disposal an innumerable number of councils and other work formats, where it is possible to seize the initiative and propose ideas on these topics for the future. The ideas that come from the representatives of the banks, and I am not talking about Estonian banks here, but about European banks more broadly, unfortunately, do not always support financial technology and the development of the financial sector, nor do I support the development of bank services that are more favourable to people. Everyone wants to keep up their expensive structure forever. We're the ones who want to save customers' money! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U239	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, That last speech warmed the heart, actually. It doesn't matter which parties are sitting in, still think the same thing from time to time. Very reasonable! I note that political parties are a democracy thing, there may also be different opinions within the parties. I don't want to be unfair to anyone. It seems to me that there are different visions in your party too: some want to turn on more, some less. I think it makes sense that, on the one hand, efforts must be made to ensure that there is a rule 'Know your client' in the Code applicable to banks, both in Estonia and in other countries! '. It's a very important thing. It wasn't like that before, ten or twenty years ago. More and more attention has been paid to the need to know your client. This reduces the likelihood that we will have to set an alarm for money laundering, terrorist financing, unknown money movements. I think it is also in the interests of the banks themselves that they are acting on this. It is up to countries and governments to pay attention to this, and this is really happening in Europe. I really liked what Kalle Palling said. I think it's our success story that we can't lose. On the contrary, we need to think about how to proceed. We are a small country and we do not have unlimited resources. The good things that work should be developed. True story, topics that are all related to e: Estonia itself starts with this letter and everything that is related to it, to e-residency, we must pay attention and take advantage of the opportunities offered by the fact that we are a small country. Our dynamism, our ability to change in an existing situation and always take the best of what we have is a kind of skill. I think that all the topics relating to fintech, Kalle mentioned it in the context of FinanceEstonia, have been welcomed, and these people are doing a grateful job. I think that there must be support in every way for the private sector, for non-profit organisations that are hurting their hearts over it. All in all, as a country, we must make the most of the effort to avoid a situation where we have hundreds of e-residency applicants, but there is no money to process these applications. In my opinion, this is the correct observation that Estonia's know-how and our skills in the sector related to all e-activities must be exploited. By focusing further attention there, we would achieve even better results. So I just wanted to say that I really liked the speech. I share exactly the same values. It's almost as if he's talking himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U240	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We broadened the focus of the subject a little bit. We really have a world-renowned e-state, such as the e-Tax Board, since 2000. But from the point of view of the image of the e-state, it is also important that there are no such money laundering cases. Here's what I'm gonna ask you. In a situation where law enforcement authorities remain short in criminal proceedings for entirely objective reasons, for example if Russia does not receive the necessary information, the administrative procedure is an instrument to ensure that banks apply due diligence. Is the general part of the Penal Code, which gives rise to an administrative penalty limit, really an obstacle to imposing higher fines in the law? Have you discussed the current situation with the Minister of Justice regarding the prevention of money laundering?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U241	Thank you. In my introductory speech, I said that, firstly, the level of fines has increased strongly: from EUR 32000 to EUR 400000. And, as I have stated, there are so-called coercive money. Then we will be talking about millions, to be exact, of five million, when forced to perform some kind of obligation. So these rates have exponentially increased compared to the previous ones. But there's always a question, which is still the right rate, which one could and should be. There is now a strong increase in both the fine rates and the penalty money on the table. As regards the day-to-day activities of the Financial Supervision Authority in the market, where it monitors, within the limits of its competence, those institutions to which it has issued a licence, the inspection deals with those to whom it has issued a licence, that is its area of responsibility, then believe me, all credit institutions licensed on the Estonian market will be dealt with very actively, very thoroughly. Their field of action has now become much wider. We have, by law, given them considerably greater rights and obligations to deal with the area from creditors to fast-track loans. Their main work in exerting pressure on banks is: (a) to comply with the rules, (b) to show banks potential bottlenecks. That's what the Financial Inspectorate does. And as I understand it, market participants appreciate it, this job has been good. This is not just my assessment, you mean that the Minister comes and praises the Financial Supervision Authority, the Financial Supervision Authority of different countries is evaluated in many ways and Estonia's has always received high grades. Consequently, this work has been well done. But it is also right that there has been a specific case, and it must be drawn from. We must have the ability to draw the right conclusions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U242	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U243	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, There has been talk about the consequences of money laundering schemes. The consequence is that Estonia's public finances have suffered great losses. The credibility of financial supervision has been called into question internationally. You dealt with the measures that are to be implemented. Are they sufficient to be protected from future new technologies and cyber threats in the banking sector at all and also in the area of financial supervision?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U244	Thank you, good Ain! Somewhere you read it... But that's the right question. Can we draw conclusions from a number of processes and how do we look to the future? Looking at how the Financial Supervision Authority itself operates mostly, and also at the Council, which comes together at some point, as well as at the Board, I can assure you that they are working very seriously. They monitor all the problems and follow all the criteria. As so-called ordinary people, we cannot imagine how many different indicators must be monitored by financial institutions. Today we are talking about the prevention of money laundering and terrorism, but there are dozens of other indicators that financial institutions need to monitor in order to keep their licenses and be correct. This job is actually on the shoulders of the Financial Supervision Authority. I think they're doing very well, which doesn't mean, of course, that it may never happen so that we discover some unpleasant situation. But we need to minimise these cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U245	Thank you. No further questions. I'm asking for Aivar Sõerdi's speech chair on behalf of the inquisitors.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U246	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is gratifying that we are discussing this issue here. I would also like to thank the Minister, on behalf of the heirs, for their answers. I hope the Ministry of Finance takes this issue very seriously. In the meantime, we had a wide focus of the debate, but the question also needs to be looked at in such a way that there is a reasonable balance so that e-services and new technology, which the Estonian state is also successfully developing, are not hindered in any way. Once again: as an e-state, such money laundering is not working well on our image and image. If we look at how other countries have behaved, the issue is currently being dealt with seriously in the parliaments of those countries where money laundering has also taken place. Lithuania has launched a draft aimed at tightening the fines of participants in money laundering. The Latvian Ministry of Finance has opened an investigation into this matter. I will also repeat the question I put on the ground: if, in criminal proceedings, the hands of the law enforcement authorities are short, what happens then. The conduct of criminal proceedings does not depend solely on the good work done by our institutions; cooperation is also needed with the law enforcement authorities of the countries from which money laundering schemes are based. All the more attention should be paid to administrative procedures. I repeat that the Financial Supervision Authority, of which we have talked a lot today, has proposed to increase the current fine limit of EUR 400000, i do not mean the penalty, the fine and the penalty are different in terms of the amount of EUR 5 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U247	Would you like some extra time? Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U248	I will bring a parallel to the sanctions imposed by the Securities Market Act and by the infringement of the securities market: there will be up to 15 million penalties and there will be much higher fines. If you look at what is socially dangerous, money laundering is hardly less socially dangerous than other financial abuses. I very much hope that we will look seriously at the regulations and we will seriously consider the proposals that the Financial Supervision Authority has also made in order to improve the situation. Money laundering is a very serious issue. This is also one of the main sources of terrorist financing, as I have already said, and these risks have not disappeared from the world. These risks tend to increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U249	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-03_U250	Now we have the opportunity to speak in a free microphone. Anyone who wishes to speak can register after a hammer hit. There doesn't seem to be any desire. I wish you all a lovely evening. Closure of the sitting at 20.50 a.m.
