ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 46 members of the Riigikogu are present in Question Time. The members of the government are in briefing, as you can see, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski. Let's hope that the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, will be here. Last day, seven members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask questions. Today I am giving the opportunity to put forward an additional question in the debate on each subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U2	The first questioner is Jaak Madison and the question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U3	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! On 23 November you spoke at the Riigikogu Speaker's Board to receive a mandate for the government to be formed. You stressed that Estonia's foreign policy direction will not change. You have also repeatedly confirmed in your next speeches that Estonia is holding the foreign policy line that was in the previous governments. Now you plan to go as the first prime minister after the war in Ukraine to the Russian Federation, namely Sankt-Peterburg. How does this affect Estonia's foreign policy direction, and what signal will it give to the European Union and our NATO allies if the new Prime Minister of Estonia breaks the path established in its relations with Russia and goes on a visit to the Russian Federation before he has visited our neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! The Prime Minister will certainly not break in front of anything, on the contrary. But if you ask me what effect this will have, I'll answer. Our country will be 100 years old. Our forefathers and mothers made a very powerful contribution to this. The fact that we can start celebrating the 100th anniversary of Estonia in mid-April 2017, which will last until 2 February 2020, is certainly their work. This is the work of our grandfathers and grandmothers, our great-grandmothers and our great-grandfathers. There is one goal to go to St Petersburg: to support the independent Estonian state and our people, who work every day to ensure that the Estonian state is as we want it to be. But the aim is also to express thanks to the 40,000 Estonians who marched in Petrograd on April 8 a hundred years ago for giving Estonia autonomy. I think this is the source from which the Estonian state began to be born and Estonia's independence began to grow. This same St. John's Church of the Republic of Estonia is the most appropriate place to remember these events a hundred years ago with worship and festive concerts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U5	Jaak Madison, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U6	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! I'm reminding you of the situation. For 25 years, Estonian diplomats in the Moscow Embassy have repeatedly requested high-level meetings for the Estonian Prime Minister, Foreign Minister and President. All these 25 years, representatives of the Russian Federation have longed us out and refused to be arrogant. Now you are going to Russia without having any level meetings there, sneaking in like a kitchen door just to please your constituents. Do you consider it dignified for the Republic of Estonia and Estonia's foreign policy relations if you go where you are not expected, where you have not been invited, but you are still trying to go there by sneaking without anyone waiting for you?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U7	Thank you, good questioner! I'm going where our people are, where the Estonians are, where the Estonians are. As a member of the Riigikogu, I think it is wise for you to go to those places where our people are, to support the people of Estonia and our country, and to be proud that this country has come this far with its good aspects, but certainly also with mistakes that need to be corrected. If you refer to 25 years and that Russia has never been before, you must first say that Estonia's 100th birthday has never been before. That's point one. Point two, the St. John's Church was restored only quite recently and certainly it was an important decision that it was restored. No, I never go sneaking up to my countrymen. Maybe you do, but you do not need to be afraid, because the people of Estonia are nice and they are certainly happy that the Estonian state will be 100 years old. I'm happy about that, too. You were talking about requesting or not asking for meetings. One meeting has been requested, so that a dignified worship and concert can take place in the Estonian St. John's Church on Estonia's 100th birthday, in the event of events that took place in exactly the same city a hundred years ago when 40,000 Estonians demanded Estonia's autonomy. History must be known and our history must surely be valued. If you asked about any other meetings, if I have requested any other meetings outside the EV100 programme, then the answer is that there isn't. Do I apply for them? No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U8	Arto Aas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U9	Thank you. It is certainly remarkable and strange that the opening event of EV100 is taking place in Russia on the Prime Minister's personal initiative. But if we put aside your party associates' statements on occupation and sanctions and their actions in Syria, it may not all be so weird, it will simply give an idea of your foreign policy direction. In addition, today's Estonian Päevaleht wrote that Tallinn TV has created an international scandal. Our northern neighbours are concerned about this. It gives the floor to people who deny the occupation of Estonia by the Soviet Union. As you said, history must be known. You have the red button in your hand to shut down this media channel, which is under the absolute control of the Centre Party. Why don't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U10	Thank you. Your question about St Petersburg's visit to Syria went through and came out of Tallinn's Television. You said this visit was remarkable and strange. Which one is it, noteworthy or strange? But I have never thought that what has been done by previous governments, prime ministers and ministers is all one very scary and bad thing. No, it's not. The EV100 began, I think, several and several governments back, I think the circuit five years ago, then began preparing this program. Good Arto Aas, neither you nor I existed on April 8, 1917. Our great-grandfathers and great-grandfathers were the bravest ones who said they wanted our country to be independent. Just as today, I believe, we both want Estonia to be independent and continue to be independent. On 8 April, the first event of EV100 will take place and was set by the previous government. I see no reason to reject or change history, on the contrary, I am very proud that we have our country, I am genuinely proud. You were talking about Tallinn. I understand you have a desire to show yourself before the local election campaign. I wish you strength when applying to Tallinn City Council, and I think that the ideas related to the better organisation of Tallinn's life, whether in the field of education, in order to ensure good order or maintenance of roads, are waiting for the residents of Tallinn. Those debates are sincerely awaited by the residents of Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U11	I will conclude on this issue. I should probably remind you that today there is an opportunity to ask a very specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U12	The next questioner is Kalle Palling and the answer is Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister and good ministers! The question is for Evgeny Ossinovski. We constantly read news about how the Health Insurance Fund is down and the new social benefits information system has failed or is not completed by the deadline. There have already been accusations against their predecessors that they could not solve the problems. The issue is the sustainability of healthcare funding in a holistic way and wage bargaining with medical staff. All these are long-running processes, where there are more questions than answers. But you will not have answers or solutions. Will you ever come up with these solutions? Do you run the ministry or run more of your party, and that's why you don't have time to deal with a lot of topics in the ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U14	Thank you very much, Honourable Asker. Indeed, we must admit that there are many problems in the field of health care in Estonia. As you rightly pointed out, they have accumulated over the years. You know very well, of course, a good questioner, that in the years 2007-2014, it was your party associates who led this ministry, as well as several current members of your group, such as Urmas Kruuse, Taavi Rõivas and Hanno Pevkur. The truth is that a great many systemic and fundamental issues were not resolved during this period. This, of course, concerns the financing of health care in particular. You referred to the downside of the Health Insurance Fund. As early as 2005, experts said that the income base of the Health Insurance Fund needed to be expanded. Further analyses were carried out in 2010 and 2011, but no decisions were made on the extension of funding. Since the Social Democrats took responsibility for health in the Ministry of Social Affairs, we have taken this issue very seriously. The previous government, led by the Reform Party, asked for further consideration and thought of things that have been weighed for ten years and over which it was not prepared to make that decision. The new government has done a great deal of work in the short term and in the coming weeks decisions on financing health care will be taken. Of course, there are a number of other organisational problems in healthcare that have accumulated similarly over the course of ten years. These were taken away from the fixed goodwill cooperation agreement signed with Hanno Pevkur and Taavi Kõivas. However, in 2014, 35 things that the country had to do by the end of 2014 only 13 things were done. So there's been a lot of accumulated problems. We'll solve them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U15	Kalle Palling, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U16	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Just to remind you that you yourself have run the parallel party and the ministry for a year and a half, your predecessor in the ministry was Rannar Vasiliev, and before that, Helmen Küttt. I think it's a lot more than two years in total. So the smell of social democracy in that house has been felt for a long time and could have done things. But that's it. It's great if you really come up with solutions, but as far as I've heard, these solutions have been more like raising money from one pocket to another. These are not substantive solutions. Why have you not moved on, for example, by the networking of hospitals, which would actually be effective? Finally, I wonder how the head of the unemployment fund, Meelis Paavel, has been appointed without a public competition. Your own party partner, Urve Palo, has promised to empty the council unless, for example, a new chairman of the board is appointed in Omniva.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U17	Thank you. I'm asking you to make it in one minute! Let's be more professional, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U18	So how did this happen by default, without a contest?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U19	Let's be professional. As far as I know, Honourable Asker, you still have one more question to ask. I'd be happy to continue this discussion with you. But with regard to the questions you have asked, indeed, Helmen Kütt was Minister for Social Protection in 2014 and 2015, but he was not responsible for the area for which I am responsible, at that time Urmas Kruuse was responsible. It was a reminder. But indeed, in these two years, when the Social Democrat has been the Minister of Health and Labour, there has been progress on the very important issues, as well as on the issues agreed in this cooperation agreement on goodwill. There's been a move on, I'd say, pretty fast. Indeed, I would like to move faster. Implementation of many things has been a little slow and, in my opinion, unsatisfactory. But we have finally moved on with, for example, the issue of medical liability insurance. There was an agreement that it would come in 2013. We have entered into a consensus agreement to increase the training order for nurses. We have moved forward with these changes, which are strategically important for strengthening the first level. You were talking about seduction. I don't know where your information comes from, that it won't move on. In the final stages, Hiiumaa Hospital is networked with North-Estonian Regional Hospital. Networking is at an advanced stage in Valga Hospital, cooperation agreement has been concluded and the primary funds have been allocated to networking Põlva Hospital with the University of Tartu Hospital. A cooperation agreement has been concluded between Narva Hospital, Ida-Viru Central Hospital and Tartu University Hospital. So, broadly speaking, there are a couple of hospitals where the networking process has not yet reached its final stage, these are Viljandi, Kuressaare and Rakvere hospitals. With them, we will deliver on the basis of opportunities and agreements on the ground, as best we can.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U20	Now Urmas Kruus is asking. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Minister! In some speeches in this Chamber you have said that you are very capable and able to do more in a short time in the Republic of Estonia than the Reform Party could in ten or more years. At the same time, you took the position today that you have not been in that ministry for a very long time. I have to admit, you've been there at least twice as long as I could be there. I wish we could get out of the sandbox and do something. If you fail to do so, if you are in over control of the Council, and specifically this form is beyond your control, would it not be reasonable to abandon this office? It's totally crazy to give money to a system where it's basically robbed every day and patients don't get to the doctor. Can you identify it and eradicate it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U22	Honourable questioner! I'm not blaming you. Indeed, even when I was a minister, your party was not prepared to allocate extra money to health care in order to shorten treatment queues. Don't take it personally! You asked about the health fund's problems. It is not by chance that in the health sector, the police have been a little more active in recent times than in the past. I think this attention is essential. Corruption must be eradicated from the healthcare system. I think the first steps that have been taken in this direction are very positive. I believe the police will continue their good work. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Insurance Fund will cooperate fully. I think that, as a society, we have taken a little too lightly the way in which money is spent in health care institutions with budgets in tens of millions of euros (the two major hospitals have a budget of over EUR 100 million). In this context, we have paid a lot of attention to some public undertakings, but we have neglected health establishments that I do not think are justified. We've definitely cleared up the system, but it's still running. As we know, in the light of recent events, the Health Insurance Fund is ordering an extraordinary audit, which is being prepared by a member of the Supervisory Board on the audit committee of Maris Lauri. I believe that the practice that the press has been talking about recently will also be eradicated, which is essential. As has been said, it is extremely unfair when even a small amount of medical money is used for personal enrichment. We're going to deal with it with zero tolerance, and we're going to work to eradicate it. Now I will answer Kalle Palling's question about the unemployment fund. First of all, Meelis Paavel is not my party partner. Secondly, we did not announce the competition because the social partners, the representatives of the Confederation of Employers and the trade union, felt that it was not appropriate to organise the competition. My preference was competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U23	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U24	Now Monika Haukanõm asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! My question concerns the Social Insurance Board's information system called the "SKAIS." In particular, I am interested in its development project "SKAIS2', the preparation of which began in 2012. This was due to the introduction of a new information system in July 2016. Unfortunately, that has not been the case. Initially, the cost of the SKIAIS2 was planned at EUR 7.1 million. The last two years have been run by the unemployment fund, the Social Insurance Board and now it turns out that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also points out that the project is not well and there is a high probability that this project will not reach a successful conclusion. As Head of Government, what have you done to complete the SKIAIS2, and when will it be completed in full?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U26	Thank you for your question. First of all, I come to the beginning of the question. The time you referred to is really very long. During this time, this ministerial office, along with today's minister, has been held by five people from very many political parties, according to my calculations. Then why is this state of affairs? First of all, we can't say that the SKIAIS2 doesn't work at all. It's working, it's running parallel to the SKAIS1. When will the SKIAIS2 be finished? It has to be said that the state has not learned very much during the process. It cannot be said that everything has been done right from the start, but it is a very, very large programme. This time has been extended, on the one hand, due to the fact that in the project application the state did not have to record anything in the criteria. We have dealt much longer with this programme also because the subcontractor has not been able to fulfil his obligations as planned. If you ask what has been done to complete this system, I can tell you that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister of Social Protection, Kaia Iva, are working every week to move forward with the SKIAIS2 and complete this development. What's the most important thing? Given the amount of money received by Estonian people through the SKIAIS2 or today via the SKIAIS1, the most important thing is that this system is secure and secure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U27	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Of course, I agree with the fact that a number of ministers have dealt with this project. But it's very strange to hear an explanation that it's always someone else who's never done anything before. In fact, it does not matter who the minister is or what political party the minister belongs to. But here's what I'm asking you. What's Plan B? SKAIS1 won't last much longer. The second question: how much will this backup plan and the further development of the SKIAS1 cost us? The third half of the question; if we fail to manage the four million that comes from Europe to develop this project, will we pay for it from the state budget itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U29	Thank you. These are very interesting questions. I don't know where you've taken it. Someone's been talking about the culprit in this conversation. On the contrary, neither I nor you used the words 'guilty' or 'guilty' before your first question, and we did not speak of who should be held accountable at all. On the contrary, I said that very many political parties and ministers have made a strong contribution so that the SKIAIS2 would start working and this procurement would be well prepared. We have now come to the point that the result does not satisfy us. You asked what the final cost of the project was. The final cost will be clear when the Minister for Social Protection, together with the developer, has carried out a serious analysis and a summary of where it is intended to end up. It's too early today to tell me what the final cost is. If you are asking whether or not we have to pay back European money, I have not heard the view that the Skiis2 will not be completed. On the contrary, efforts are now being made to complete it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U30	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U31	Thank you. My question to you, Prime Minister, is about responsibility. During the summer, a letter was sent from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to the Ministry of Social Affairs asking the ministers of the house, or two social ministers, to take responsibility for the completion of the system and expressed the opinion that if not, these persons should be held accountable. This letter was not answered and no responsibility was taken. How can that be? When you read the article on the Estonian Päevaleht, did you not feel that there was something suspicious about this story? Why is it that the responsibility is not desired, and why is it that the responsibility is put on the hands of their predecessors, even though they have been in this position for a year and a half, some more, some less? The second question also: how can it be that a competition is not organised for the head of the unemployment fund, but is chosen as a result of a ministerial decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U32	Thank you. I think that Mr Ossinovski gave an exhaustive answer to your second question. Now I come to the first question, i.e. responsibility. I don't know what to do. Shall we ask everyone who has been ministers in this field since 2012 to return their salary? What responsibility do you claim from them? For example, the previous Prime Minister, Taavi Kõivas, has been carrying and preparing this subject. Should I point a finger at him? I call on you not to point your finger at Tavi Clothes. I think he did the same thing so that the SKIAIS2 could be developed much faster and we should not discuss this issue here today, at the beginning of the expensive April 2017. I think we need to look to the future and act constructively. Can't say it's good. How do we get out of this difficult situation when money and time have gone beyond what was planned? I'm absolutely sure they're working on it. So I'm not gonna point the finger at anybody. I know that the Cabinet and the Minister are serious about this issue and are trying to find a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U34	A question for the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U35	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to express some astonishment that this massive disorder, and also the financial loss in the form of theft, which has occurred in the system of the Health Insurance Fund, has somehow been dealt with by the media and the public under the variety. This is where my question comes from. Since a criminal case has been initiated, as I have read in the paper, and there is also a new independent audit, do you not think that the people involved, led by Tanel Ross, who are directly responsible, should resign during the investigations?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U36	Thank you very much. Firstly, specific cases with medical devices. Most medical devices, which receive benefits from the Health Insurance Fund when they are purchased (this also applies to medicines), are subject to price caps which make this type of fraud impossible. It is true that, in the case of certain equipment, orthosis (the cost to them is far from the largest proportion of the cost to the health insurance fund of this kind), this was not the case because of their specific nature. This means that it was possible to commit such fraud. This was actually the most direct fraud, i.e. double accounting, because the client was given one bill, but the sickness fund received another one. It is true that this risk has been known to the Health Insurance Fund since 2014 since then it was precisely in this section that additional checks were carried out and it was established that several service providers had breached the contract. The Health Insurance Fund also believed that the analysis at the time said that it was not malicious, but ignorance. In retrospect, it can be said that, of course, the Council should have carried out an extraordinary audit at the time. I was not the chairman of the council at the time, it was led by other people who have been mentioned here today. That decision was not made then. As far as the investigation is concerned, it is carried out by the police and the board of the health insurance fund cooperates fully. There can be no question of trying to hide anything because all the information on this subject is electronic and is recorded in the registers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U37	The minister's answer must fit in two minutes. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U39	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U40	I'll ask him first, and then have Mart ask him. The question that Mart had to ask was: do we know what the damage is? Secondly, we have this question that the people who had these violations during their term of office, we know that, already three years earlier, there were danger signs here, may not be the best co-workers with the investigators, because they have a personal interest in hiding things. Wouldn't it be better to put people in real responsibility, as their position suggests? Do you see a certain responsibility for yourself in the current situation? One of the things I heard about the answers to the previous questions was that we have watched the spending as a society at the Health Insurance Fund too easily. I can tell you that we have not done this as a society, for example, the opposition have been screaming for a long time because of the overexpenditure of the Health Insurance Fund. Shouldn't we still be more attentive?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U41	Thank you. Firstly, as regards the extent of the injury, this is in the context of clarification. This is identified on the one hand by police investigations, two criminal cases have been initiated and there is full cooperation with the investigators in order to identify the facts and make sure that those responsible are held accountable. That's one. Secondly, as mentioned, the Council has decided to order an extraordinary audit outside the sickness insurance fund. The Health Insurance Fund also has its own internal control system, but given the circumstances, and precisely in order to rule out any wish of the employees of the Board or the Health Insurance Fund to conceal one or another fact, I do not believe that this is being done, but in principle this risk must also be avoided, an audit is ordered from outside the Health Insurance Fund, completely independent of the auditor. This is the starting point I have been asking for, and the Council has supported it, Mr Lauri, the Council Member, your good colleague, to prepare it. This is also so that there is a representative of the opposition of the Riigikogu in the leading role in this process, so that there is no doubt that the government is trying to hide anything. This initial task will be prepared, and the details will certainly be discussed with you by Maris Lauri. When this audit is ready, we will see if any of the hundreds of contract partners in the Health Insurance Fund have tried to exploit the system. The police are helping against this. But we will also see if there have been any mistakes in running the health insurance fund, whether some mechanisms are not working and whether there has been little attention to any circumstances. This can be identified as an emergency audit and, consequently, decisions can also be taken by the Health Insurance Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U42	I can give the floor when someone tells me he wants the word. Mart Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U43	Thank you. I'm sorry about the mess. I really forgot to press the button. My question, however, is as follows. Do you not think, Mr Minister, that, in a situation where an ambulance protests against trips to the ER, you do not want to receive people by claiming that their problems are not big enough, that the order of specialized medicine is often months long, that there are clear failures in the family medical system, that it is your responsibility to correct a system where there is, in essence, a disorder? Are you convinced that this responsibility is not beyond your control? Perhaps you should resign from some office, such as the Chairman of the Health Insurance Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U44	Thank you. Indeed, there are a number of problems in the Estonian health system that have a long history and which have accumulated. That's what Kalle Palling and I dealt with quite thoroughly. If you want to do this more thoroughly, for example in the context of the same goodwill cooperation agreement, which contains 35 tasks for the state, I will be happy to discuss this with you. But Question Time is not a suitable format. I am happy to expect you to use another parliamentary instrument, i.e. a question of understanding, to discuss these matters calmly for several hours. I think this is indeed an important issue. As regards whether Estonia's health care will succeed by the end of my mandate, i.e. by 2019, it will not succeed. I don't have that ambition because I think it would be unrealistic. However, I do believe that there are a number of key issues in today's health care situation that need to be addressed urgently. We have come quite far from resolving them, and I believe that we will finish this at the end of my mandate. You also said that there are too long treatment queues in Estonia, which means that access to treatment is insufficient. Yeah, that's right. This is undoubtedly a problem and it needs to be resolved as a whole. The question is whether we can maintain solidarity medicine in this form. If the income base is as it is now, it will not be able to do it again in the next ten years. Consequently, additional funding decisions are needed and will be planned by the Government of the Republic in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U45	I will conclude on this issue. I apologize to Urmas Kruus if I was wrong! You can't control it either. I know I took the first questioner on the list. Mart Helmet wasn't there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U46	Eerik-Niles Kross, Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, will continue to answer. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U47	Good Chairman! Good minister! Your ministry's problems have been partly accounted for, I'm not going to repeat them. It's gonna look like your house is gonna burn all over the place. I will add one of the problems that has emerged in the implementation of the employment capacity reform. Very many people have at least complained to members of the Riigikogu that people who are unable to work are declared to be able to work, and there have been cases to the contrary. There must be something wrong with the information. However, you will extend the contract of employment of the person who has run the institution for 15 years. But really, we're going to ask the question in more detail. Against this background, however, I would like to ask you if you have any flying initiatives in mind, apart from those we hear here all the time that the fights are still here and there before things work out in your own house. Secondly, we hear that the Reform Party is guilty. I recall that Maret Maripuu resigned when he had problems with the payment of pensions. How long does it take...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U48	Now it's time to ask!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U49	... a minister in office to take responsibility for what's going on in his jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U50	Thank you very much. I have been responsible for what is happening in my domain since the first day that I assumed that responsibility. As has been said, the Question Time format does not allow for a comprehensive overview of what has been done in the health field over the last year and a half, and what had not been done in the previous ten years. We have also discussed this with the actors and specialists in the healthcare system who are in charge of this area. I think we're generally heading in the right direction. Indeed, the number of problems caused is colossal. Not always has the Ministry of Social Affairs been able to do things, and this has not only been a political issue, but also an administrative issue. We have not been able to complete the processes that have been initiated. This has caused quite a lot of resentment both in society and in the actors involved in the health care system. As has been said, we are moving in that direction so that the most important and critical issues can be resolved. This is certainly about paying more attention to public health, but there is obviously too little progress there too. Let us mention, for example, the fight against HIV and drug addiction, which is very important, but where little has been done so far. Now we have taken this issue very seriously. It is absolutely critical, I say again, this expansion of the health revenue base, precisely from the point of view that there should be a certainty that we can maintain this system even in the longer term. As regards the reform of the capacity to work, this is a very big reform and there have been some difficulties in launching it, but these implementing difficulties are not largely due to the unemployment fund, but have been incorporated into the political agreement that the Riigikogu has approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U51	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable answer! Your self-confidence, of course, honors you. There are also opinions in this Chamber that your mandate will end before 2019, but I did not want to ask you about it right now. I didn't get an answer to the last question. You were talking about corruption. I am sure that burning taxpayers' money at the health insurance fund is not very sensible, especially if it is for its own good. But do you not think that the Health Insurance Board, which is probably one of Estonia's largest councils and which includes several parties, including those who are directly beneficiaries, should be reformed? That's what you actually promised in the last government. Wouldn't you take it now and make it more reasonable? This Council does not seem to be of much use.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U53	Thank you very much for this question. I will take this opportunity to answer more about Kalle Palling's unemployment fund. I am simply saying to the audience, of course, Mr Palling knows that the unemployment fund is managed by a council composed of three parties: employers, employees and the state. State representatives are outnumbered, two out of six. Whether or not the mandate of the members of the Governing Board and of the Chairperson is extended is a decision of the Council. Whether a competition is announced or not is a decision of the Council. The Council's consensual decision was that we would extend the mandate of the Chairman of the Board without calling for a competition. As I said, my proposal was to make a competition anyway. That was the answer to that question. As far as the Health Insurance Board is concerned, indeed, already the first time I was in the Health Insurance Fund Council as Minister and Chairman of the Council, I understood that this Council needs to be reformed, also in terms of a practical form of work. The Council, composed of 15 people, will certainly not be able to make strategic decisions, nor will it be able to supervise the management of the Health Insurance Fund. The initial idea of creating this Council was to create a parliament of certain parties, where everyone could present their views and views, which as an input is certainly valuable. But the insurance company's health insurance fund is by its nature a state insurance company in terms of management, it is certainly not practical. The intention is to make changes in the Council and to reduce its composition. My understanding is that we could rather move towards the unemployment fund model. We will come up with this draft within this semester, after the government's financial decisions have been taken, because at the same time we want to entrust some of the tasks to the Health Insurance Fund, so that we can work together on the structure of the Health Insurance Fund and the Health Insurance Fund law, specifically on the role of the Health Insurance Fund. So this change is planned. It's true, it's stuck.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U54	I will finish addressing this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U55	Asks Krista Aru, answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In the summer of 2018, the student singing party Gaudeamus is expected to take place in Tartu. The invitation to come to Tartu was submitted to Lithuanian and Latvian university colleagues as early as 2014. The preparations have begun, everything is as good as it is, because both the Minister of Education and the Minister of Culture confirm that the party is taking place. However, I wonder whether the money needed for the party, EUR 400000, which has already been requested since 2015, by making various statements of support, will be available next year. What kind of ministry budget do you think you can find it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U57	Thank you, good questioner! This is a very honorable student song and dance which began during the beautiful July days (I hope that in the beautiful ones) of 1956, 7 and 8 July. I also find it remarkable that 28 years later, in 1984, this song festival reached Tallinn. At the time, Gustav Ernesa was one of the honorary leaders of the party. The truth is that Gaudeamus's financial application has gone a little up and down in Estonia, I mean that it has moved between one ministry and another. Five or six years ago, the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Education and Research agreed, as far as I know, that the Ministry of Culture would be involved in this since 2014. Time went on, then the Ministry of Education and Science dealt with it again. That's right. You said that two government members and both ministers who are preparing Gaudeamus (as far as I know will take place in 2018 at the 18th student singing and dance party Gaudeamus) have said that the party will take place. That is a very strong word when both ministers say so. If you are asking whether this money is available in the budget, I must say that the budget for next year has not yet been adopted by the Riigikogu. The government is currently working on a state budget strategy. I am very pleased that you have asked this question directly. I'm sure you can ask the ministers. But as far as I know the latest information, I can tell you that they're planning on looking at the two of them as to what the chances of Gaudeamus are.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U58	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I was pleased to hear an overview of the history of Gaudeamus. But my question is this: should Gaudeamus be primarily the responsibility of the state, or is it the responsibility of the Council of Rectors or the higher education institutions themselves? Preparations should not go further than there is no financial guarantee. Is the state taking responsibility here, or are we still just waiting for preparations from universities?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U60	Thank you, good questioner! In my opinion, singing and dancing are at a higher level than government level. There is no reason to say that Estonians are singing people. The Estonian people sang themselves free again in the late 1980s. I think there's a very big grain of truth in here. You asked which instance should be directly responsible for Gaudeamus, whether the Council of Rectors, the University, the Ministry, the Government, the Prime Minister or the Government of the Republic. As I said, the history of this event is very impressive and certainly very important for the three Baltic States. We can look wider, there are also performers from the Nordic countries. The last Gaudeamus that took place in Estonia was in 2006, then there were several tens of thousands of spectators. If the system is well in place, I don't see why it should be changed by force. If the Minister of Education and Science and the Minister of Culture see that it should be directly within their jurisdiction, or propose that it be even within the administration of the State Chancellery, then all of this can be discussed. These proposals have not been made to me by either minister so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U61	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U62	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! My heart too sang along with your excellent historical review (I am the choir leader from my first education), but it was a pity that a specific question remained, let us be honest, with no real answer. The student house has submitted these applications, but it turns out that these applications have not been passed on by the ministries. Who do you think should be doing this so that it isn't incorrigible late in the end? Is it the Ministry of Education and Research or the Ministry of Culture? It sounds, I'm sorry, like the press-known silo question that something is going to fall between ministries somewhere. What's the solution? Help out and tell me specifically!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U63	Thank you. It seems to me that there is no fear of this issue. Having also been seriously involved in organizing the student singing and dance at Gaudeamus, it seems to me that there is nothing between the two ministries right now. On the contrary, according to the latest information, the two ministries have put their hands together very strongly and put their backs together in order to achieve the best result in cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U64	With this joyful knowledge, we will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U65	The next questioner is Andres Ammas and the question is for the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U66	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! In recent days, we have learned quite a lot from the media about the family doctor's helpline. It has been a pleasure to learn that it is very popular and essential. But it has also been about current and future funding. Many people are interested in this subject. Minister, please tell me how it has been financed so far and how much money the Health Insurance Fund spends there. If your wish for this entire call to be free of charge is fulfilled, not just from a few minutes, how much additional resources will be needed there and will this resource already be available in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund? Tell me everything about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U67	Thank you very much for this question. I think one of the positive results of the debate over the last few weeks is that very many people in Estonia found out that such a telephone number existed. Of course, the Health Insurance Fund has already done some serious information to make sure that the health clinic number 1220 reaches the consciousness of all people as the number of the initial medical consultation, especially outside work, when people are unable to contact a family doctor, for example. In order for people not to have to call an ambulance or go to the emergency department, I think, to maintain such a line of advice by the state is essential. We have been gradually developing this service over the last ten years. It can be said that 73% of the Estonian population are aware of the existence of this number. That's what research shows. Studies also show that about a third of the population have also used this number, which is certainly a pretty good indicator. Last year, nearly 250,000 calls were made to this number, and 84% of those who called the helpline were satisfied with the service. We monitor the quality of this service. Minimum quality standards have been guaranteed in 98% of cases. So it is certainly still possible to work better and work harder, but in itself the service is good. Now for the money. This service is indeed funded by the Health Insurance Fund. The amounts of funding have been as follows: EUR 530000 in 2014, EUR 554000 in 2015, EUR 605000 in 2016, and this year we have planned to maintain this service at EUR 628000. So these sums have gradually increased. Indeed, on my own behalf, I have said that this service could be completely free of charge. With these proposals...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U68	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U69	... we haven't gotten very specific yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U70	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U71	Thank you. Honorable Minister! Maybe I'm wrong, but I thought there was something else on your paper that you would have liked to say in answer to that question. I am so kind and I ask you if you would like to continue on this subject. But I'm gonna ask for more. Is this service currently provided to the extent needed, according to the level of demand, or on the basis of how much money is there? Now, if you want to turn it into a completely free service, can you get as much advice as you want and demand, or will there be restrictions on the work of doctors?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U72	Thank you very much. First of all, I will answer the previous question to the end. Indeed, as a surprise, I learned that this phone is not quite free for the patient. Some people have preferred to call an ambulance at least as stated in the media, as it is free of charge, but the phone call must still cost 23 cents from the fifth minute (I'll tell you by memory). In this situation, we should work to ensure that this service is completely free for patients. How do you do that? There are different ways to do this, both technologically and legislatively. We have not yet reached the final stage of decision-making, but we will resolve this issue. It is known that the share of patients that they pay by calling this phone is just over EUR 100000 a year. But there are different ways in which it can be organised. If you ask me if I have anything else important to say on this subject, I certainly do. We are pleased that people are satisfied with this service. When we look at what advice has been given to patients, we see that only half of the cases have been advised to go to the Alert Centre (the concern has been so severe that the person has needed an ambulance), 7% have been advised to go to the Emergency Department, and 8% have been advised to contact a family doctor, i.e. it was not as extraordinary as it seemed to the person. In all other cases, i.e. in most cases medical advice has been given, for example, it is recommended that you take some medicine or some other way of correcting yourself, and that is how your concern has been solved. So this service is certainly very important to the people of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U73	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! This hotline is certainly part of a strategy aimed at strengthening the primary level and making the advice and strength of family doctors more accessible. But with regard to investments in health centres, is the state planning to deal with the work of family doctors on weekends, and how does the state intend to ensure this? We have only recently heard that the ambulance intends to restrict or divert certain patients, more than has been done so far. It can increase a very dangerous tendency on the one hand. But does the state have the means to get people to see a family doctor on weekends when pressure on an ambulance is greater?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U75	Thank you very much. First of all, I did not answer Mr Ammas one question. Will all those who wish to receive help from the helpline in the future? Indeed, it is financed in two stages. First of all, the preparedness fee is about EUR 200000 per year, and the remaining EUR 400000 is paid on a call basis. Depends on how much people use this service, so much is paid by the health insurance fund to the provider. Last year there were a total of 240000 calls and an average of 660 calls a day. Thus, this service is used by a considerable number of people and by anyone who wishes to receive it. Now another important question, the possibility of going to a family doctor outside working hours. As the former Minister is well aware, we have planned to encourage people to be able to visit family medicine centres even during periods outside of work. The Health Insurance Fund is already financing if family doctors keep their centre open during outside hours, such as evenings. True, many family doctors do not yet do so, but this is clearly a growing tendency. Family doctors themselves understand the need for it. Of course, when they start working in larger teams, there will be more flexibility and receptions will be better open at night, some places maybe on weekends. Now, what went through a number of questions. About the ambulance, I have to assure you once again that a person needs to be sure that if he's worried about his health and he's calling 911, the ambulance will come and check him out. The change so that the ambulance starts telling people not to go to him because he doesn't have a serious problem, doesn't need it, and it won't come. As for the fact that the EMOs have started to review these things, I think we should be more careful here too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U76	The minister completed his reply at 1.59.55 p.m. There's five seconds left. Thank you, members of the Government of the Republic! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U77	Hello, everyone who hasn't seen yet! The Wednesday session of the 10th working week begins. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U78	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Seven members of the Free Party will present an inquiry to Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madis. This inquiry concerns case cat Artur versus Police and Border Guard Board. That is, this court settlement concerns my own car, which had stickers during the election campaign, which remained there a little too long. The police fined it, but we sued it. And now the Tallinn Circuit Court has ruled that the restriction on outdoor advertising is partly unconstitutional. This decision moves on to the Supreme Court, which must take a stand because it is a declaration that something is unconstitutional. In this context, opinions were sought from several institutions, including the Chancellor of Justice, who further expanded the subject in his opinion. He said that the restriction should be removed from all movable property and should extend to others, i.e. the elections to the European Parliament and local authorities. In this regard, we are interested in the legal status of such decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U79	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U80	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Reform Party, I will address a question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratases about the problems of digital development in the social field. We also heard during the previous hour that there are problems in the social sector, although in the area of the Minister for Social Protection, in the area of the Minister for Health and Labour, which are due to the fact that IT solutions are not being prepared in the best way, stretching and constantly being postponed. In our view, if there is a problem, a solution must be found. Even if these problems are from a long time ago than today, when 2017 is still the Minister's duty to deal with them. It is clear that ministers alone in their own field will clearly not be able to deal with this. All the more so, these are problems that affect several ministers. That is why we are calling on the Prime Minister to find out whether the government is dealing with these problems, what solutions are offered, how ministerial cooperation is ensured, including involving the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology and the Minister for Finance. As we know, this stretch has created an additional cost for the country. We hope for substantive answers on what is being done to solve the problems, not on what was there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U81	I would like to clarify what Mr Lauri said that the question was handed over by the members of the Reform Party Group. I have adopted two enquiries and we will deal with them in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! The assembly has 83 members of the Riigikogu. In order to clarify the agenda, Liisa Oviir, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, will be the rapporteur for the third item on the agenda, i.e. the second reading of the draft 356.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U82	Our first item on the agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (location of the legal person and its board of directors or the body replacing it). I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The Commission's proposal is for a final vote on a draft of 347. As the draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption, please take this into account. Honourable Riigikogu, presence control, please! 83 members of the Riigikogu are currently present in the plenary. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft law 347 amending the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Please take a stand and vote. There are 77 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft and 6 against, with no abstentions. Bill 347 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U83	The second reading of the "Principles of Climate Policy 2050" draft 362 submitted by the Government of the Republic. Rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Vice-Chairman of the Commission Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U84	Mr President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Climate policy...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U85	Wait a minute, Kalle Palling! Dear friends, please allow this House to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U86	Ladies and gentlemen, 'The fundamentals of climate policy up to 2050' were discussed and prepared for a second reading by the Committee on the Environment on 13 March. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 9 January including. The first reading was closed on 15 February and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 2 March. The members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees did not propose amendments to the draft. The Committee on the Environment has tabled only one amendment to the draft. During the period between first and second readings, the draft has been dealt with at the Commission meeting, as I mentioned, on one occasion, including 13 March. The representatives of the Estonian Renewable Energy Koja, the Estonian Green Movement, the Estonian Environmental Law Centre and the Baltic Environment Forum of the NGO also participated in this meeting, who had submitted their proposals to amend the draft slightly. Representatives of the Ministry of the Environment also participated in the meeting. However, it was decided that only one amendment would be tabled, excluding the word 'acceptance' from the title of the draft and the second sentence from the text as follows: 'Climate policy fundamentals up to 2050'. ' This amendment follows from § 20 (1) of the State Budget Act, according to which the Riigikogu adopts the fundamentals of politics and does not approve them. A number of linguistic clarifications have also been made in the draft, which in no case alters the substance of the draft. At its meeting on 13 March, the Committee on the Environment decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 5 April and to propose the final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U87	Questions for the waitress. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U88	Good President! Good waitress! In recent years, there have been an average of 25 megawatts of renewable energy generation capacity per year in Estonia, but oil shale electricity capacity has been increased by state support and 300 megawatts in Auvere. This can be seen even though we want to reduce CO2 emissions by 80%. At the same time, Estonia has also approved the European Commission's Energy Roadmap 2050, which sets a target of zero CO2 in electricity generation. How will the draft achieve the objectives agreed at European Union level if Estonia does not plan measures to develop renewable energy production while building new oil shale power plants?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U89	Thank you. With this oil shale power plant, the fact is that oil shale is able to be used together with biomass, which is a renewable fuel, in half of the capacity of 300 megawatts (technically even more than half). Is there only 25 megawatts a year? It seems to me that there is actually something else, but maybe there are only 25 megawatts of renewable energy per year on average. If we put more wind power, combined production in the 11th block of the Narva power plant and the 8th block of the Estonian power plant, as well as the capacity of the new Auvere power plant to use half the power of biomass, I think this total capacity is somewhat higher. If we take even the same 25 megawatts per year, we will take Estonia's peak load or electricity peak consumption, which is about 1800 megawatts, it will be possible to reach it beautifully by 2050 if we really want to replace oil shale completely with renewable energy sources. But, in fact, this binding target is not yet in place by 2050. All those things that come after 2020 will only be agreed more precisely. I think that, so far, Estonia can boldly place an equal mark between energy policy and European climate policy. If you look at the base years with which we compare, you can see that the Estonian energy sector has still made a huge leap towards renewable sources. All the numbers, including the increases you mentioned yourself, show that. In most settlements where district heating is used, fossil sources have been replaced against renewable sources. It's reduced our air emissions. This has made room heating significantly more favourable in many settlements than it was when gas or other fossil sources were used as fuel, it was oil or so. Let's see what's going on in Tallinn. Another biomass CHP plant has been built next to the Väo power plant and perhaps even connected to the grid, so it already produces room heating for the Tallinns every day. I think, as far as possible, this power has increased. On Monday, you also asked in your inquiry whether it was planned to build additional wind power capacity in Toots' areas. There is now a debate about who will have the right to build it there, but in any case it will. This means that we step out of the oil shale gradually. And this is also widely known as the fact that at least four direct combustion blocks of oil shale fall out of production in 2023 purely because of their lifetime. So I think that by 2050 the picture will be quite different, and Estonia will definitely remain on the scheduled schedule here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U90	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U91	Thank you. According to this document, the picture is still no different with regard to the so-called oil shale issue. Although Estonia already has a so-called oil shale-exit movement, according to the climate policy document, the potential for development is also seen in oil production, it is actually seen that these oil stations could be added. [[???hääl saalist: 'Põxit'???]] Is there, in a sense, a contradiction here: we could give up using fossil fuels, which we are not actually doing, but even increase according to this plan? We want to export it, but we're going to increase it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U92	Now, if we get pretty philosophical, I think that by now, mankind is probably seven times greater than the ability of the earth and our ecosystem itself to produce all kinds of energy and other resources from equal amounts of renewable sources that we need for our daily lives. So in any case, let's call it a transitional period or whatever, the consumption of fossil fuels is necessary in certain cases. When we are talking about oil production, it is up to us to choose whether we consume oil imported from Norway and pumped out of the seabed as motor fuel, or whether we are using our own resource here, which leaves the benefits of this enhancement in our economy, also taking into account environmental aspects. These mines are built, these opportunities are there. Why leave this prepared mineral underground or a career if we can make use of it? I agree that the opening of new and new mining fields and underground mines should really be debated during this debate in Põxit. But as for the fact that we have work fronts prepared today, either in Estonia or in the Narva mine, that we have invested in our power generation, I wouldn't be so panicked. I will come back to the fact that yesterday our group and I discussed the issue of forestry more broadly. And there researchers from the University of Tartu pointed out that really, we need fossil fuels at the current size of humankind, it is simply not possible to produce renewable resources as quickly as possible, or they will not reproduce themselves as quickly as we can.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U93	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U94	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! I listened carefully to your answers, and I would like to understand even better whether the use of fossil fuels is, in the opinion of experts and Members of the Commission, absolutely necessary forever. You once said that we could not get without them, according to the experts, you said again that we are in a transition period. How long could this transition period last? Until 2050, I get it, we can't give them up yet. But I did not fully understand whether we wanted to abandon them at all, whether we considered it realistic and whether we would achieve this in the foreseeable future. Please handle this!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U95	What is the foreseeable future? Again, we are already producing more than 25% of our energy from renewable sources. I've previously listed a variety of options in power generation, district heating. We have major shortcomings in the transport sector. Our transport sector is very polluting purely because we have just a lot of cars compared to our population. In addition, we have not succeeded in introducing enough biofuels or mixing them with fossil fuels. Nor has the introduction of electric transport gone as optimisticly as was foreseen years ago. Estonia is no exception here; in fact, it is a wider challenge across Europe. But once again, in the last ten years or somewhat more than ten years, we have managed to bring our share of renewable energy to a 25% scale, or we are already producing a quarter of energy from renewable sources. Until 2050 (now we are 2017) it is possible, I think, to exit oil shale if we want to. We simply have to consider this aspect of whether we are destroying our natural environment for this purpose. Of course, if we replace oil shale with biomass, for example, pressure on our forests. Are we gonna do this? In forestry, it's not just that I take away a tree and put it in place of a little tree. This destroys the whole forest in general association with birds, animals, blueberries, mushrooms, plus the general living environment. The forest has still been the place for the people of Estonia where they draw energy, simply walking there, but also going to the forest to get a roommaker. I think that all kinds of extremes, for example, if we went to 100% renewable sources or produced 100% of energy from oil shale and dug out the base of East and West-Viru County, are not appropriate. That's why I mentioned the transition period, that we're always moving step by step towards reducing the proportion of oil shale, towards direct burning and reducing ash deposits. The same oil production that Artur mentioned also means that in order to get more energy out of one piece of oil shale, we produce that oil, not that it is just nice to produce it. One thing is the greater monetary value that can be obtained from it, but you can also gain more energy: you take out oil and oil production residues you still produce electricity, and instead of storing the residue of electricity production in the mountain, you so-called "produce roads," streets, whatever. That's what research is going on right now. I think Estonia has chosen a good combination: we are reducing the proportion of fossil fuels and increasing the share of renewable fuels, but we are doing this in such a way that we do not hurt our nature, so that instead of saving our nature from oil shale mining, we do not hurt our forests.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U96	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U97	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good speaker! The question I have is very simple and very specific. We are already paying, for example, for electricity bills a rather large renewable energy fee on the price of electricity. How much will this transition cost our society? And once these 'objectives' have been achieved, how much will it cost our taxpayer every year in the form of growing bills?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U98	Thank you. That's the right question. Indeed, in 2007, just before the elections of the Riigikogu, a support scheme for renewable energy was adopted in this very hall, which has not yet been changed, despite the fact that the various Riigikogu configurations and governments have discussed this review in order to make it more market-based. As far as I know, the week before last, just like Wednesday, exactly two weeks ago, there was a second reading of the draft electricity market law in this Chamber. This is precisely what makes the renewable energy system dependent on market prices, which should also reduce the support for renewable energy paid by the consumer, which is reflected in the same electricity bill that you mentioned. In addition, of course, all these subsidies will be paid for production equipment during the 12 years following their introduction. The first investments have been made about 12 years ago and are now starting to fall away. At this point in time, when the target for the share of renewable energy (e.g. 25% until 2020) is met, each government must decide individually whether it will increase or maintain the share of renewable energy. And if it keeps it the same, there is therefore no reason to ask the consumer for additional subsidies in order to build up capacity. So I think that because of this fact alone, the consumer burden on the electricity bill is actually starting to decrease from year to year. There is also a technological aspect to this. I think that solar production is already about five times cheaper than it was five years ago. As technology becomes cheaper, the unit price will also become significantly cheaper for electricity generation. The same has happened in wind energy production; the same happens in all kinds of other areas. So I think that technological progress is also doing the consumer a very big favor here, so I will return to the answer given to Artur, that we do not need to take rash steps. If we look at the last ten years in energy, how much technology has actually changed that makes energy production cheaper, it is worth taking it easy. As long as the target is ahead, by 2050 we will indeed be free of fossil energy sources, for example. If we hold this social discussion here in the coming years, it will actually be possible to do it step by step at the lowest social cost.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U99	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U100	Honourable Chairman! Good waitress! So as not to give the wrong impression of my question, I have a conservation background, actually an education. We certainly need to take all these steps to increase and maximise the use of renewable energy. But in the case of oil shale energy, this is primarily a matter of efficiency: we have a very small share of energy in final consumption, i.e. 10 to 15%, with new technologies perhaps allowing a little more. The question is this: were two important points discussed in the Commission, firstly, energy security, as far as this affects the whole area, and secondly, social security? North-East Estonia's employment is a very important problem. You said in Estonian that this step-by-step move is important and that we would also take into account all other areas when implementing these measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U101	'Step by step' would probably have been much more accurate to say in this hall, so I apologize for this slip. But the same aspects you mentioned are always on the table in all energy debates. Of course, the entire oil shale sector directly affects the social security and social security of Eastern and Western Viru County: employment in this sector and especially among people in the region is very high, but also the production of energy from renewable sources. For example, because of the same stocking of biomass in the forest sector, hundreds and thousands of people get jobs who are directly, indirectly. All these aspects must be taken into account. But once again, if we are to very exponentially increase the share of renewable sources, and precisely by using biomass, we must bear in mind that we do not harm our nature, especially forests. We may really feel that we have enough wood in the woods, but we also need to look in more detail at what kind of wood we have there, exactly how many species we can take away, and which is still more useful, either to deserve it in some other way, even in construction, or to use it in energy. Of course, energy should use this resource, which cannot be used anywhere else. Just an interesting fact for you. I'm sure you've noticed in homes and everywhere in construction that wood is used very extensively. But if you put together all this volume in cubic metres, how much wood we actually have in the buildings we actually use, then it is about one year's cutting volume of Estonian forests. Maybe we see a lot of wood around us as building material, but it's not that much. This is, in fact, a one-year cutting volume, which is still few. If we still consider the age of our own housing fund, a lot of buildings have been built in Soviet times, so these buildings are included in the volume. Here again is the point that we are doing with this growing value in our forests: whether we use it exclusively in energy or whether we use it more as building materials to improve our living environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U102	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U103	Good manager! Good waitress! It says here that the areas of green growth with a high export capacity and economic potential will be identified and prioritised, so that further changes can be made to the matters of regulation and financing. My first question is whether such a word exists in Estonian and what kind of animal is it? Secondly, what is the export potential of this so-called high-potential green growth, how many billions or so? Open my eyes a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U104	I would leave the word for this green growth to be clarified here. I really haven't figured that word out myself, nor am I a bigger specialist, to assess whether such a word exists. If he's here in the official document, he's probably there. This export potential can be viewed in many ways. I have previously given an example of this construction and an example of using wood as a building material. Or we can take an example of exporting wooden houses. An example of export of any one, even if the same, produced electricity kilowatt, can be found here and then calculate different potentials. In the same way, it should also calculate, for example, the potential for the growth of tourists travelling here because of the natural environment and the accompanying tourism sector. If we put the tourism sector and the forest sector side by side, their shares in Estonia's gross domestic product are completely comparable. Now the question is if we want to increase this potential. Are we doing this in such a way that our natural environment becomes even better and more balanced, our tourism sector is also developing outside of Tallinn, and the people who arrive in Tallinn with planes are going to and are looking at our swamps, bogs and forests, i.e. by increasing the share of tourism in gross domestic product? Or are we going to build a pulp mill here, for example, developing our furniture production, i.e. increasing the share of this sector in gross domestic product? I think they're completely comparable. This is purely a matter of social debate and decision-making, which way we are going: whether we are moving more towards extensive resource use or sustainable management and resource conservation, keeping the nature that has been put into our use so that there is something to be passed on to future generations. Now, if you put these two things together, I think it's actually possible to combine both wisely. That is why it is important to argue everything here in the preparation of the various laws. We will discuss the Forest Act in the Chamber of the Riigikogu in the coming weeks, and certainly these same debates will come along.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U105	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U106	Honourable President! Respectable waitress, how much of the potential of Estonian researchers has been used to prepare the document you are discussing? After all, at least a few decades ago, the potential of oil shale science in Estonia was very great and oil shale scientists had a good reputation. Or is this document rather prepared by the ministry's specialists?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U107	Estonian oil shale science and oil shale scientists still have a very good reputation, it extends far beyond the borders of the Estonian state. The investment decision of a company based on the capital of the three countries, based on the research results of Jordanian land and Estonian researchers, has also been examined with the participation of Estonians to establish an oil shale power plant in Jordan. Eesti Energia is part of this project. This is certainly a great recognition also for Estonian scientists. But I do not think that any such document would move into this Chamber of the Riigikogu in such a way that scientists would not be involved and scientists would not come and protest against it. I also think that these times are over in the ministries, when so extensive and so fundamental documents, which set out a long vision, could only be made with the participation of officials. All kinds of civil society organisations and scientists have certainly been involved, and all parties have been brought together on the central floor. A great deal of recognition to the Ministry of the Environment and to the good officials who have carried out this process, that the various parties have come together. For my part, I can assure you that it has been fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U108	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U109	Thank you. As we know, those countries that are the world's largest CO2 issuers do not want to hear about such restrictions or targets. Against this background, it is very important to know how much it costs our society and our taxpayers to meet such targets and how it affects our competitiveness in general. To my question, when I asked you about the cost of this transition, I didn't get an answer. There are two things that can be deduced from this: there are no or no such estimates, but they are not wanted to be disclosed for any reason. I am still asking again how much this will cost our society and how it will affect our competitiveness on a global scale compared to other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U110	Surely these numbers exist, I will specify and send them to you in writing. Different scenarios have been calculated. If we come to this competitiveness, there really are countries in certain parts of the world that do not want to hear about these restrictions. But if we look at the Paris climate agreement that was signed a year and a half ago, we will see that a very large number of countries are still party to this agreement and are united in meeting these objectives. If we try once to take the competitive position into account, then it is true that if everyone has to do so, this competitive position will not, in fact, deteriorate. That is why I pointed out that these extremes, if in a very short time we wanted to make a very big leap towards renewable energy sources, would be dangerous in many ways, many times more than we are actually expected to do. It would be dangerous for our natural environment. Similarly, this would be a huge burden on our economy, our consumers. In that case, our competitive position would really deteriorate if we did something significantly faster than others or significantly more than what was agreed. But between 70 and 80 million a year, the amount that we collect from our consumers as a renewable energy tariff and which Elering will continue to pay to all renewable energy producers is, in itself, a considerable amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U111	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! A very long and thorough preparation has been made. I will also take this opportunity to congratulate and thank all those who have carried out this whole process and have done it very well. Big job's ready. It is a decision that will still have an impact for decades and which concerns both the next and the next generation very directly. This concerns essentially every area, from the overall natural environment to the development of technology. To the previous questioner's comment, it is precisely because of the preference of clean technologies in our country that competitiveness itself only improves and grows, not the other way around. But my question is the implementation of this decision. Is that what the committee was talking about? And what will this implementation and control of implementation look like in the future when Parliament looks at it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U113	I couldn't agree more. First of all, I will comment on what was said to the previous questioner. After all, we are moving towards different certificates, clean nature and sustainable management. Sustainable resource use is becoming a separate quality mark and I welcome that. We do not know exactly and do not know what can happen in the short term with this competitiveness on a sector-by-sector basis, but in the long term we are definitely moving towards a better and more competitive society. This is indeed a sign of a move towards a more competitive society. But from this implementation. This is where sectoral development plans, which have their period of validity, split up. As far as we discussed in the Commission, the same document will be reviewed and, if necessary, clarified every four years. This will then be the so-called parliamentary routine in the implementation and review of the fundamentals of climate policy, in addition to all other development plans, which are similarly going through the various committees of the Riigikogu, mainly the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Environment. So the more active, the more committed and the more aware our delegates are, the better and easier it will be for the Ministry of the Environment and its officials to take decisions on the subject that we are taking here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U114	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U115	Good manager! Good waitress! I am amazed that the vice-chairman of the Environment Committee thinks that green growth is the arrival of tourists who come here to admire our untouchable nature. I am asking again because it is in the title of the policy guidelines for the whole economy, where there is an animal such as green growth. As Vice-Chairman of your Committee on the Environment, I could not say what this is, which has a great export capacity, a great economic importance, and which has said that it is necessary to identify and prioritise this green growth, which has a high export capacity. Tell me what it is, though. Otherwise, the question arises of what we are discussing at all and what we are voting for if the vice-chairman of the Committee on the Environment does not know what green growth is, which has great potential.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U116	Your spouting ability is so great, you've forgotten your last question. We can check the verbatim for that. You asked about the export potential of different sectors, and that is how I replied. This document, which we are adopting here, is 'The fundamentals of climate policy until 2050'. Green growth and mapping its potential are just one detail. This debate that we have had here, when your ears have been open to it, has been considerably wider and has touched on various areas. So if you have any room for personal insults and tagging in this hall, I think you'll see some pretty interesting questions and maybe interesting answers after studying the verbatim. This remains more for the questioners and the respondents themselves to assess how these answers were. But the document is good in itself, I suggest you meet. I think it would be much more useful than constantly pulling up some kind of internal dispute in the Centre Party Group, which probably most of your time will be spent. So really get that document straight. I think the world's gonna get much better, get back to a well-informed vigilante.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U117	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U118	Mr President! Honourable waitress! This is indeed a very fundamental document and you mentioned here, responding to my benchmate that scientists were involved. Did the Committee on the Environment, for example, hear the views of energy specialists at the Estonian Academy of Sciences? I know the science academy working group has been working on this for a very long time. Was it in the Commission's own interest that, as there are many controversial issues here, it was the opinion of scientists that came into contact?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U119	Thank you. We have to admit that we did not address the Academy of Sciences or scientists separately. However, within the deadline for submitting the formal amendments, all the parties were able to address us, to present their vision. This is what several organisations did, but not research organisations. My experience tells me that no matter what legislative amendment we have discussed here, if scientists have had an interest, they have always taken a pipe, written a letter, or sent a formal referral. I guess that was the case then, and I also really believe that it was the case that all parties, including scientists, were involved in the various stages of drafting this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U120	Thank you, Kalle Palling! Using modern internet opportunities, the President of the Riigikogu informs the House that, according to the OECD definition, green growth is growth and development of the economy, while preserving natural values, natural resources, environmental services on which our well-being depends. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. One amendment to the draft 362 has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and this is, of course, taken into account. The Committee on the Environment proposes a final vote on the draft 362. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the Riigikogu's decision 'Climate Policy Fundamentals 2050' draft 362 submitted by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 63 members of the Riigikogu were in favour and 6 against, with 6 abstentions. The Riigikogu decision 'The fundamentals of climate policy up to 2050' has been adopted. Honourable Riigikogu, I ask for silence in the Chamber during the vote. I would be very grateful to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U121	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Liisa Oviir, waitress of the Committee on Legal Affairs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U122	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated the draft 356 on 19 December 2016. The first reading took place on January 18th, including. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 8 February 2017. One amendment was tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukamm, Maris Lauri and Liina Kersna. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared a second reading at five meetings: 24 January, 14 February, 21 February, 6 March and 21 March. These meetings were attended by Thea Treier, Head of the Department for the Development of Working Life of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Mariliis Proos, Head of Labour Relations Policy of the same department, and Liis Tõnismaa, Adviser to this department. The members of the committee were the Confederation of Estonian Trade Unions, Estonian Employers' Confederation, Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Labour Inspectorate, Estonian Children's Protection Association, Estonian Youth Association, Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association, Tax and Customs Board, Estonian Water Company Association and representatives of Air Traffic Services AS and AS Tallinn Airport. As a result of the discussion, the committee took full account of the amendments tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõmme, Maris Lauri and Liina Kersna, and launched five other amendments. I will then deal with these amendments one by one. The content of the first amendment is the prior consent of the labour inspector. The aim is therefore to maintain the current labour contract law regulation, under which the employment of children under 15 years of age must be preceded by the consent of the labour inspector. This requirement is of utmost relevance and the Commission considered that there was no need to amend this requirement, in particular with regard to the health and safety of children. The current consent application mechanism helps to prevent a child below 15 years of age from being employed in an environment that could harm his or her health or being assigned tasks that are harmful to his or her development or health. So the fundamental point of this amendment is to ensure the safety and health of children in advance. The second amendment, which was discussed and supported by the Commission, is this. At present, the consent of the labour inspector is expected before the child under 15 is recruited. According to the amendment, such consent is also expected, however, on the understanding that the employer will include the minor in the register of employment 10 days before the date on which the minor takes up his or her duties, together with information that the consent of his or her legal representative is available for the child to take up his or her employment. You must write down the conditions under which the child is employed, where the work is done, exactly what the work and working conditions are and whether the child is compulsory or not. The Labour Inspectorate shall receive a notification of this through the register and shall not be required to provide it with such information separately from the future, unless the Labour Inspectorate suspects that nothing is correct. In such a case, he or she shall start the administrative procedure and ask the employer for further information. Amendment 3 deletes from the draft the specific provisions of the originally proposed on-call time regulation which, by agreement, would have allowed the worker to derogate from the provisions of the daily and weekly rest periods. The social partners were not able to find a common understanding or to make an agreement, which is why the employees' representative organisations were convinced that workers would be put at a disadvantage by this regulation. The Commission found that no changes would be made to the existing law by force. As long as there is no agreement and the social partners have not been able to make a sensible proposal, the current act will remain in force. Amendment 4 results from Amendment 2, i.e. the transition to a register base. This is primarily a technical change. Amendment 5 adjusts the elements of the employer's liability regulation in the case of a minor contract of employment. And Amendment 6 is an amendment to the entry into force. If the rest of the draft is to enter into force under the normal procedure, i.e. on the 10th day following publication in the Official Journal of the State, the part of the register shall enter into force as from 1 July 2017. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to submit the draft for a second reading to the Assembly, to propose that the second reading be closed and, if the second reading is closed, to send the draft for a third reading by 12 April 2017 and also to hold a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U123	Honourable waitress! As of now, two questioners have registered. First of them, Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U124	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good colleague! With regard to this draft, it is certainly very good that we were able to reach an agreement on bringing minors into the labour market in a more normal and faster way. What really bothers me about this draft is that the Committee on Legal Affairs took decisions on 6 March on both the amendments and the introduction of the draft into the Chamber, and then the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs felt it was necessary to vote again. The question is that the IT sector, which accounts for about 7.5% of the Estonian economy, asked for changes to the regulation of on-call time in order to ensure the functioning of vital services. Now Parliament wants to screw up the operation of this vital service. That is not justified in any way. What will be your message to the IT sector after today's decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U125	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U126	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I tried once to put myself in the role of the person in the IT sector who should be on duty. I did not understand that, sometimes, if everything was coordinated with the trade union, the premium could be one size, and if not everything was coordinated with the trade union, it could be another size. Does it look like the union's national racket, or what does it really look like? You have said that there should be no exceptions here, although it must be acknowledged that the government is going to make all the exceptions that concern the economy. My question is this: does the same sector not become less competitive when taken together?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U127	Thank you. This sector will certainly not become less competitive, because the same on-call time regulation that is currently in force will remain in force. And it will remain in force in exactly the same way as it has been in force at the time when the sector has become very strong. So I can't say there's gonna be some big change coming up. I certainly do not agree with this as if it were in any way a union-pressed change, because it proposed an extension. However, in order to carry out this extension under particularly favourable conditions, it would be necessary to negotiate with the employer's representative organisation. What's the point of this? If the employer always represents the institution when negotiating one, but the employee is in the role of a private individual, the balance of power is quite different. In order to ensure that the employee is not in a weaker position, he or she has an organisation or institution as the employer's interview partner in this situation. So that's the idea of this one solution. But once again, this solution is currently off the agenda. The Commission decided to keep the regulation in force until the social partners had found a common position, without changing the regulation, which was actually working quite well.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U128	Urmas Kruuse, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U129	Thank you. The IT sector's concern has been exactly the opposite: because in the future their competitiveness in this position may be weakened, they have actually made these proposals. That's why I don't quite understand this logic when you say that everything stays the same. In fact, the economy is dynamic and the sector is looking forward a lot. What would you personally object if I, as an employee, agreed to be on the lookout for a certain extra charge? And why do you describe me as weak?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U130	Thank you. This is now going to be a very clear legal philosophy debate. One of my life experiences is that I have been advising the Human Resources Departments for quite some time and familiar with these problems. It can be said that the majority of people who go and ask to be recruited are in a weaker position than the employer. Many employers also say that we actually have a tail at the door. This is the question why I trust both employers' and employee's representative organisations to do their job with their hearts. If they agree on some sort of new solution, then this solution is one that takes the interests of both sides equally into account. Since this agreement has not been concluded now, I sincerely believe that it is reasonable to maintain this regulation in its current form.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U131	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I will open negotiations on the draft provisions. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U132	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Generally speaking, children and young people have dredges, tend to work during school vacations, some even during school. And why not? Many, yes, and indeed, there are families who are in need or where there is not enough money to satisfy the growing desires of a youth. Or it will make your own money better, or it will be good to get work experience, even if you need a resume soon. But the most important work experience at school gives young people low-level work habits, the knowledge that money does not grow on trees. I'm glad we have employers who offer jobs to young people. The catch is that the work must be by the bones of the minor, his or her rights must be protected. The recruitment of children and young people has been hampered by the time-bound and overly complicated paperwork. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that children's work is now and will continue to be subject to strict rules. There are a series of international agreements and directives that set out specific requirements for the work of children and young people. The aim is one: to protect minors from physical and moral dangers arising from their work. The seventh article of the European Social Charter deals with this, for example, and is defined by a directive of the Council of Europe since 1994. (Call me Hatter, are you talking now or am I talking?) The requirements and obligations relating to the employment of children and young people have been governed mainly by the Employment Contracts Act and the Health and Safety at Work Act. As a result, the Government Regulation sets out in detail the risk factors for the working environment for which the work of minors is prohibited. In order for a person under the age of 18 to be allowed to enter work at all, he or she must have the consent of a parent or other legal representative in writing. In addition, the co-ordination or authorisation of a labour inspector is required for younger than 15 years of age. At present, it is the employer who makes a request to the local authority of the Labour Inspectorate so that the labour inspector can examine whether the work offered to the minor is fully in line with the requirements of the relevant laws and regulations and whether the young person even wants to do the work. This is where we want to make it easier to do business with hiring a minor. According to the amendment, the employer shall include in the register of working for a minor worker 10 working days before the date on which he or she takes up his or her duties, as well as information on the consent of his or her legal representative to take up the child's duties, the conditions under which the child is employed, where the work is carried out, what the work is done and whether the child is compulsory or not. Thus, the employer will not be required to submit separate documents to the Labour Inspectorate in the future. If the labour inspector considers that the information provided is not sufficient, he must start administrative procedures to determine the actual situation and require the employer to provide the necessary documents. Such an innovation will make the procedures for creating an employment relationship with minors more flexible and comfortable for all parties involved. Applications to allow minors to work are increasingly submitted to the Labour Inspectorate from year to year. Mostly, work permits are applied for by local authorities and students, less often by private sector employers. In 2016, a total of 189 applications were submitted to the inspection to recruit 2358 minors. The consent was given to employ 2284 children under the age of 15. In the case of the remaining 74 children, the labour inspector made a refusal or dismissed the application as the child had already reached the age of 15. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U133	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U134	It can be said that the Labour Inspectorate is not currently handing out work permits, and that will not be the case in the future. I can give you an example of refusal. For example, 13 to 14-year-olds were banned from working at a gas station as the goods that must be displayed at service stations would also include alcohol and tobacco products, cleaning inside and outside the station would have involved many risk factors: traffic, waste gases, evaporative emissions, risk of explosion, the possibility of damaging themselves with glass fragments or injection needles, etc. In addition, working hours, rest periods and rest days for each age group shall be laid down in order to ensure that the tasks of the minor are adequate and do not endanger their health and morals, social development or educational attainment. Overtime and evening work with a few exceptions are prohibited if a child is involved in a theatre performance, not to mention night work, for example. A child is not allowed to work for more than half of his or her school vacation, but at some point the child must rest. One of the main tasks of the Labour Inspectorate is to monitor compliance with the requirements for work, including the work of minors. I and the other Social Democrats are very pleased that we are planning such changes. And I believe that already this summer, during this school vacation, a lot more children will be able to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U135	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U136	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, In itself, what Heljo Pikhof has just said here can largely agree to this bill is not wholly evil or bad. What changed there for the kids is, I think, quite pleasant, because we can't raise the kids in the real mat. Giving them the opportunity to gain life experiences in a slightly simpler way than now is, in my opinion, very welcome. What made this thing incoherent for me and made me come to this remote control today is that we actually discussed this bill for quite a while. This is one good example of where the Commission really did think and came to a rather good or very good solution, with which everyone seemed to agree. Until suddenly the Confederation of Trade Unions woke up and then announced publicly, but also by its channels to the leader of the Sotsia political party Jevgeni Ossinovski, that there is now an evil herd, there is going to be some kind of law that could potentially diminish the union's power or role in society. I have no objection to this, but I don't care whether the role of the trade unions is the same or decreasing, because in some sense it is a historical obsolescence, especially in the ICT sector, where I come from. I've never actually met anyone who was a member of the union. That is God's truth, which was said before in this Chamber: it is not a sector where people are pushing very hard into trade unions or entering into collective agreements. Just because, in fact, in the ICT sector, it is the employees who own it. This is such a clear seller's market, where the seller is a labour force. But it was particularly interesting what suddenly happened to the Commission's procedure. After the union woke up, a letter came from the head of the Social Democrats and two girls from the Ministry of Social Affairs. And then the chairman of the committee, shy and embarrassed, was forced to put the matter back on the agenda, even though everything had already been voted and decided. It was obvious that he didn't like it very much either, but the coalition is today, it seems a bit like a swan, pike, and cancer. I do not know who is now playing the role of cancer or swans there, but the Commission suddenly came up with a proposal that gave three alternatives, one of which was particularly interesting. Basically, the draft could have been adopted almost as we had agreed, if we had agreed that those workers who have concluded a collective agreement would receive a certain discount. In principle, by adopting this bill or bringing it to the hall, we would have gone this way, that if you were a member of a trade union and entered into a collective agreement, you would still have certain advantages in society. I am now looking forward to the next step when, for example, belonging to the Social Democratic Party would give me a longer rest period or more enjoyable working conditions in some other area. Then I would start thinking myself that it might be necessary to change a party or join a trade union or conclude a collective agreement. But it's really bullshit! The labour market works well, especially in the ICT sector. We have a shortage of labour there. It is always said that we are undertrained and that more people are needed. This is not the place where a trade union is very much needed to protect these so-called weaker workers. They're not weaker. So what happened at the committee? After all, it was clear in the Commission how the Soviets agreed and the Centre Party was forced to replace the members of the Commission for this meeting in order to reach some consensus. I couldn't figure out what they did or didn't do. They kept their mouths shut just in case, but the 6% rating doesn't give much room for chatter either. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U137	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U138	And so it happened in the Commission. Since different versions were threatened there, the only way to end was to stick to this current law, which does not really satisfy today's needs. But there was another aspect that irritated me and which has already been mentioned here (I think the Kübarsepp referred to it in his question) that we actually turn off and shut down the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu commission sits, pisses and thinks and deals with something, solves the problem as a lawyer and as a former ICT person, I say that I think we found a great solution, and then suddenly there comes the union union union union union union union or the minister who's going to be their runner, and just says to the moon, so it doesn't go, which the pagan Riigikogu decides here, I think it should be. And the Commission is doing exactly what the Minister says. Why do we need a Riigikogu commission at all? Why would we even have a Riigikogu? Then let the smart ministers tell you how to do it. I don't think these ministers are always so smart, they might need our help. In conclusion, I would like to say that I believe that this is an example of a bad legislative procedure. That's not the way it should be. And today, in 2017, we should nostalgize here and we should not weep for trade unions, class struggles or any kind of proletarian dictatorship. We should look at the labour market as it looks and respect that times have changed. People are free to make their own decisions. And if the market has so arranged that the ICT sector is growing and constantly missing people in Estonia, let them dictate their conditions to employers. They do not need the help of a trade union or a collective agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U139	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U140	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was actually started quite a long time ago and started for practical reasons. Look, we have a number of services that are provided thanks to the IT sector, whether it be our critical infrastructures, from the police or specials, be it our air traffic controllers. We have a number of services where, without the help of the IT sector, it is not possible to ensure vital continuity of action. As a result, we started writing this bill at all times, even when the Reform Party was in the government. And during the writing of this draft, it was understood that the regulation of on-call time needs to be changed in the current labour market, especially in view of the content of our services. The idea of changing the security regulations was that the people who are in the IT sector would be available at home in their spare time. Most workers are able to guarantee these services and also offer them in a way that does not have to come to work, that they do not have to go to work, but that they can help the employer solve the problem through a distance connection. Consequently, the solution found was actually very sensible: we are not pricking the criteria for remuneration already in the law and we are giving the IT sector the opportunity, according to the original proposal, but, after the last agreement in this Parliament, to apply on-call time more flexibly to those guaranteeing vital services. As Mr Randpere mentioned, and as I myself mentioned here, this agreement was reached on 6 March with the voices of both the opposition and the coalition. Then there was a speech, a letter from the trade unions, that they had not been taken into account, which is absolutely not true. Trade unions were present at the Commission and were able to give their opinion. Trade unions were present, but not on 21 March. (Mr. Nestor, we can argue, but ask Linnar of the Livonian Mountain, who is sitting back there.) The trade unions were there, I saw it, I was in the hall. Listening to different opinions is all right. And when the Commission has made a decision with coalition and opposition votes, I stress, also with coalition votes, it suddenly turns out that, oh, it does not fit anyone, and then the issue is taken apart again. It's not normal. What is very good about this bill is that it is now easier to recruit minors. That's what Heljo Pikhof was talking about, I don't have to repeat it, in any case, it made sense. But the original reason for this draft was somewhere else: to ensure the continuity of IT services or critical, vital services at all. And now we're going to make it considerably worse. I think this is a very wrong step. This compromise, which was reached on 6 March, would have been completely free to come to this Chamber, would have been approved by the large Chamber of Parliament and would have been a sensible regulation. Even workers would not have gotten any worse, they would still have been paid on-call time of 10% of their salary, and all the conditions of remuneration would have remained the same. So this is a fight where, in the course of solving one of the substantive problems, trade unions come out and see the possibility of charging 100% higher on-call time, which, let us be honest, is predominantly the use of home rest periods. Three more minutes, just in case, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U141	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U142	It's mostly on call during rest. Liisa Oviir here said there are major restrictions. So what's the limit? Yeah, it could be sober. Yeah, the phone could be on. Other conditions are basically not necessary because, as I said, in the IT sector, it is possible to carry out the necessary teleworking work and provide services. And now we take away this possibility, the current regulation, which is subject to very significant restrictions on the use of on-call time due to rest time regulation, is left. But we can't go over all these details in this hall. Therefore, I have a recommendation to Parliament to interrupt the second reading of this draft today, to take time off once again and also to find a solution to the questions of on-call time. As a result, we propose to interrupt the second reading of the Act amending the Employment Contracts Act and other laws 356 and come back to this hall with solutions that would provide an opportunity to ensure the continuity of vital services in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U143	As one political group has tabled a proposal for interruption, we will vote on it a little later. Now, let's continue the negotiations. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U144	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for more time now! I'm afraid I won't make it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U145	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U146	First of all, in the case of this draft, I am extremely sorry that the Confederation of Estonian Employers, which was once a solid organisation, and probably some other employers' associations, has left the dignified position they held in society. They were a social partner who tried to contribute to the development of employment relations. This example, which my fellow Members have been saying here, shows that they have rather now become a lobbyist who is coming to the committees to lobby their interests. And frankly, that's a shame. However, I would like to congratulate the Commission. After heated debates, when all the members of the Commission finally understood the draft, a simple statement was reached: in fact, this question could find a solution to how people can be employed during on-call periods in the IT sector and in other sectors, which is necessary in many cases, but it is not so much our question as the question of employers and workers in these sectors. And then let them agree. By the way, the current Employment Contracts Act was not born as a result of wringing hands, but was born in such a way that ministers Lang and Maripuu, who then led the negotiations in the government, and employers and employees, agreed on the text. Labour laws must be based exactly on the same principle. The Committee on Legal Affairs did the right thing when it asked the parties for an agreed text. And since there is no text or agreement, this paragraph must be removed from the law. It is not appropriate for one or the other party to come here to change the laws in order for the lobby to do so. I would also oppose the opposite of the pressure on the Committee on Legal Affairs, and this agreement would not be agreed otherwise. That is the principle of balanced labour laws. So what was done? This on-call talk has become very sad, and it is no wonder that the Minister protested against it. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The law in force is such that you all know, I will tell you in a simple Estonian language, that after an eight-hour working day, you have the right to apply employees during on-call time. On a 24-hour basis, that time is limited to a certain number of hours, which is four. And on the weekend, you have to have one day off: Saturday or Sunday. In return for the employee's willingness to come to work as soon as necessary and invited to operate these vital services, he receives a 10% premium. Where employers' lobby led the Commission in the meantime, it meant that people would have been on-call for another 16 hours a day and the weekend would not have been: seven days a week, 8 + 16 hours for 10%, or the same extra charge that is currently there. Well, tell me, why would the employees' side agree to this? For what? By the way, there are trade unions in the IT sector, so there is nothing to be done about it. Maybe one person doesn't like it or the other. Well, don't like it, there's nothing to do, but there's a chance. So ideally, for me, this section could look like this is a matter of collective agreement. Why the collective agreement question? For a very simple reason: it will also ensure fair competition between businessmen if the same conditions are agreed across the sector. Then there is fair competition in business as well, not the winner who pays less. It's not fair competition in business. I believe that this section needs to be amended, I understand the concerns of the IT sector. But I also believe that the right change can take the form of agreeing what the paragraph must be. By the way, there are examples in the law that was born. There is a concept such as'summated working time', according to which overtime is counted not every month but over a longer period. The law says that a summary must be made for a period of months. However, the current Employment Contracts Act provides an opportunity to make this period even longer by means of collective agreements. It has also been used and it is all very practical. So I think it's important for us to know that the real working life is happening somewhere else, not in the sections of the law. And when the social partners have agreed on something, I think the Riigikogu will definitely support it. In this case, however, it would even be strange to call this sector proposal a proposal from the paying agents of the sector. From the point of view of labour law, this is the only way to look at it. And when a common position comes up on how it would be more practical and better to use on-call time in the IT sector, I believe that the Riigikogu will unanimously support it by 101. So there's no point in crying here because friends got their asses kicked.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U147	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! The first paragraph of the explanatory memorandum concludes with the sentence that a joint return was received from three operators' organisations. But I haven't noticed, or I can't find in this explanatory note why they've been approached and what they've been asking for. Can you help?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U148	Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude the negotiations. Before voting, we will examine the amendments made to the draft law 356. The first amendment has been made by members of the Riigikogu Monika Haukanõm, Maris Lauri and Liina Kersna, the commission has taken full account. The other five amendments have been tabled by the lead committee and are all fully taken into account: the second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth amendments. We have therefore examined the amendments. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading, but the representative of the Reform Party Group brought here the proposal to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and other laws 356. We will begin the preparation of this vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Reform Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and other laws 356. Please take a stand and vote. 33 were in favour of the proposal and 42 were opposed. The proposal was not supported. Second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U149	Thank you, good questioner! At the meeting on 21 March, the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee took its decision on the basis of a written address to the Legal Affairs Committee sent by Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski. The Minister of Health and Labour informed the Commission that he has been approached by the Confederation of Estonian Trade Unions, who is deeply concerned that the processing of the distinction between on-call time in the Legal Committee of the Riigikogu has substantially changed the agreement reached earlier by the social partners. They clearly considered that, as a result, the interests of the social partners would no longer be equally protected. Involvement is, of course, always important; it is part of good legislative practice. But this is particularly important with regard to labour law in order to ensure that both parties, both employers and employees, are genuinely equally protected in this respect. In the present case, one party found that this principle has been violated. As a result, the Minister of Health and Labour proposed either to return to the wording proposed by the Government of the Republic, which had been negotiated with the social partners in the Ministry of Social Affairs, or to withdraw this security regulation from the draft and allow the social partners to negotiate again. It is certainly possible for us to complete this law in order to reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U150	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U151	Thank you. I do not know how relevant my personal position on labour law in general is in this particular draft procedure. I can put it this way: I see no reason to make an exception for some sector here as to whether a trade union should play a greater or lesser role in one sector. I think it's still up to the sector to make agreements inside. And I believe this is where the market should regulate itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U152	Thank you. I'm sorry about my last, maybe, crazy question. So I'll try to ask you more specifically. What is your position on whether or not the trade union proposal that labour and wage conditions should be regulated by sectoral collective agreements in the ICT sector should be supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U153	Thank you. Unfortunately, I do not have this appeal at hand right now, but it concerned the same subject that Mr Pevkur said here that there was a request for a distinction for the IT sector. In the course of the draft procedure, we were approached by a number of organisations who said that they also provide services where it is important to maintain continuity. Perhaps the same distinction that the IT sector wanted, and which had been negotiated with the social partners to a certain extent, was sought by several sectors. So that's what it was about in that joint return. But I can ask the Legal Affairs Committee to send you the full text of this referral.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U154	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U155	Thank you. Unfortunately, I didn't get an answer from you, which is your message to the IT sector. What the Committee on Legal Affairs arrived at on 6 March actually covered the concerns of air traffic services and other vital services companies. Perhaps we have found a solution and wanted to keep the conditions of pay the way that is currently in the law. Trade unions came and demanded 100% higher on-call time than they are now. So that's actually the point. This is a very bad message in order to ensure the continuity of vital services in the future. The continuity of vital services requires that on-call time can be implemented. On-call time is currently 10% in the law, and it remains 10%, but no distinctions are introduced. So I'm going to ask you again what you're saying, because you were also very clear about not having them. What do you say to the IT sector, what do they have to do now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U156	Thank you. The IT sector, as you yourself mentioned, is an important sector in terms of our economy, which has so far been very successful. I am absolutely convinced that he will succeed in the same way in the future, because there is no fundamental change here, nothing more harmful to them. After all, what was proposed by the other social partners was to increase the on-call time fee only if it was agreed on the basis of an employment contract. At the same time, they suggested that on-call time could be used more widely without increasing any fees, if agreed in the context of a collective agreement. Perhaps, in fact, the idea behind the proposal of the Confederation of Trade Unions was that there is such a principle in labour law that the employee is always in a weaker position, because the employer is the one who employs him and lays down the conditions. There may be a philosophical debate about the fact that employment relationships are changing very quickly. At the same time, employment relations in Estonia are not rapidly changing. So I will stick to the fact that the IT sector will continue to be able to apply on-call time to the same extent under the current regulation. However, in order to have another, more favourable agreement, I suggest that my message is to sit down with the unions representing the workers and reach an agreement there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U157	Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U158	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! In my personal opinion, Estonia has been a happy country where trade unions have intervened as little as possible. And so far, the ICT sector has been intact. In the course of this draft process, trade unions have expressed the view that employment relations in the ICT sector should also be regulated by collective agreements. What is your personal assessment? Indeed, as you yourself mentioned in your previous reply, the opposite is currently the case in this sector: conditions are dictated by an employee rather than by an employer. I think that this situation will be similar in the near future, looking at the development of this sector. Do we still need to deal with problems where they are not really there when the sector gets things done with its internal organisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U159	Thank you, my good colleague. You actually put words in my mouth now that I didn't say. I absolutely agree that the ICT sector is a very important and successful sector. However, the fact that this sector is somehow very different from all other sectors in order for the internal dynamics of employment to be very different there, I do not agree. In addition, it may be wrong to make generalisations based on a few IT peaks. In fact, the peaks can largely agree on working conditions at a different level with the employer in any sector. The sector in general is significantly wider. So I cannot say that it is my view that workers in the ICT sector are dictating these relationships. Once again, the original proposal, which came from the government and which had also been agreed with the social partners, actually provided for the possibility of extending on-call time in the ICT sector, but one part of the agreement was that, in implementing it, the employee should be paid 20% of the salary and not 10%, as is currently the case. There was an exception that if the agreement was also fixed in a collective agreement, it could be less than 20%, but not less than the general rule of 10% of the salary. So, in fact, there was already, I think, a proposal with a relatively good balance, which, in the end, did not reach formalisation, because no real final agreement was reached. As a result, it did not seem appropriate for the Commission to make such a change by force; rather, it was decided to send it back so that the sector would try to reach a broad agreement. I certainly believe that, in this case, we should also negotiate with other sectors, which may likewise need to use on-call time more widely. But again, in practice, on-call time leads to significant restrictions on a person's daily existence. It's not like you can use it like your free time, it's still a time of limitations. Therefore, it is even more important that the time needed for rest is maintained in order to guarantee human health, privacy and everything else. We still can't let this on-call regulation get out of hand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U160	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U161	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I am very concerned about the statement you put forward in response to the first question. On 6 March, the Commission will adopt a very clear decision. On 16 March, the Minister will send a referral stating that this is not going to happen at all. On 21 March, the Commission will be convened quickly and its hands twisted. Do we have a parliamentary regime in Estonia? And in this example, how is Parliament's autonomy guaranteed in initiating and taking responsibility for the drafts? Or is the government still going over here with a roller coaster?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U162	Thank you. I can say that this was a regular sitting, contrary to what you referred to in your question. The members of the committee, all of whom are members of the Riigikogu, were present at this meeting, and the discussion we conducted there was also attended by various parties at the table. At this particular committee meeting, the Head of Labour Relations Policy of the Department of Working Life Development of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Adviser of the same department were present. We went over these same issues again and the Commission decided to change its position.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U163	Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U164	We will begin the second reading of Bill 328 of Amendment of Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (strengthening the attitude towards drink driving). The rapporteur is Hanno Pevkur, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U165	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, There were a number of problems and very many disputes with this draft in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Consequently, I will try to give you an overview of what happened in the Committee on Legal Affairs and where we have finally arrived. In fact, there was a fundamental debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs on whether it is possible to restrict the right of discretion of judges, that is to say, the right to decide which sentence to impose. If we go ahead with the current Penal Code, we will see that it is possible to appoint up to five years of imprisonment for criminal drunken driving. The government's proposal is that in cases where a person has been caught for the second time in criminal drunkenness, it is not possible to go on, for example, a financial penalty or a settlement procedure. The judge is deprived of the freedom to decide for himself and must, in any case, assign a person to actual imprisonment. This provision was the subject of the most heated debates in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The State Attorney General spoke to the Commission separately on this subject, including representatives of the Supreme Court, the Bar Association and, of course, the Ministry. The National Institute for Health Development was also involved in the use of alcohol halfway through the use of alcohol and also in the Ministry of Social Affairs. In the end, we have reached the amendments, the content of which I will try to introduce to you. The first amendment, which is on your tables, concerns the amendment of the general part of the Penal Code, which would, as a general rule, give the right that additional penalties may apply but do not have to be applied. Similarly, if the additional penalty is compulsory, it will not be possible to waive it. The second amendment is made by Külliki Hatter. This is a fundamental proposal to remove the shock drain from this draft. As the Hatter's proposal and the following proposals provide for changes to be made by the Government, it will actually be clear, after the votes, how Parliament must proceed. But I am already saying in advance that, since the Committee on Legal Affairs has proposed that the second reading be interrupted in order to correct this text, it is likely that the compromise proposal by both Külliki Kübarse and the government will have to be re-voted and the correct solution found. However, for the time being, the Commission rejected this proposal. The third amendment is undisputed with complex wording. I will read it out, it is a compromise proposal for Külliki Kübarse's proposal and it reads as follows: 'If, in view of the circumstances of the offence and the person responsible, the court considers that it is not appropriate to impose a sentence on the sentenced person for a period of imprisonment or to pay a financial penalty by the accused person, it may be ordered that the accused person should not be subject to full or partial probation. Subject to the special part of this Code, the sentence may be totally waived. Subject to subsections 4 and 5 of this section, a sentenced sentence shall not be enforced in whole or in part if the accused does not commit a new intentional offence during a probation period determined by the court. ' As I said, the point of the amendment is that, in certain cases, judges will be denied full or a conditional sentence will not be imposed and the minimum rate will not be imposed. The fourth amendment is the creation of one new option. If this proposal is approved, it will also be possible for people to be subjected to alcohol control by electronic means. We know that we have electronic surveillance, and it is also proposed that the use of electronic alcohol control equipment by people should also be brought to justice as a punishment. The fifth amendment concerns a fundamental dispute as to whether the Penal Code should also be able to impose conditional penalties for misdemeanours. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided that all government proposals concerning conditional punishment for misdemeanours were excluded from the draft. The sixth amendment concerns the control of the alcohol ban already mentioned and should actually be seen together with the fourth amendment. The seventh amendment is technical or, let us say, tidy. Currently, there are two deadlines for electronic surveillance, depending on the seriousness of the act: between one and six months or between one and twelve months. In order to make the law clearer, the proposal will be to use one to twelve months throughout the term. The eighth amendment relates to the conditional punishment for the misdemeanours already mentioned in Amendment 5. This provision is not included in the draft. The ninth and tenth amendments are the most important proposals for this draft. They concern the introduction of shock-freeze and the withdrawal of the right of discretion from the judge. As I said, we had the most serious debate. During this debate, the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs could ask a lot of questions both to the Minister of Justice and to the other parties involved. The main problem is that the law currently allows the prosecutor to apply to the court for a person to be sentenced to actual imprisonment, and there is a similar possibility that, for example, the Prosecutor General will give the relevant instructions. The Government of the Republic, in the name of the Minister of Justice, said that they would stick to their opinion and that they wanted the judge not to have so much discretion; in any case, he would have to put the person in jail. As I said, the ninth and tenth amendments can be seen together. Amendment 11 also concerns conditional punishment for misdemeanour, which is intended to be excluded from the draft. Amendment 12 is to be able to ask for a pre-trial report on probation. This seemed reasonable to the Commission and was supported by the Commission. The 13th and 14th proposals concern the regulation of probation and, inter alia, the possibility of involving all the necessary institutions in order for the pre-trial opinion to be drawn up. Amendments 15 and 16 also concern the exclusion of parole for misdemeanour. Amendment 17 is on the entry into force of the law. Given the scope of the changes to be made, the proposal is to enforce the law from 1 November. I am now correctly reflecting the results of the vote, precisely those with substantive changes. I am not going to report others because others went through consensus on the exclusion of parole for misdemeanour. In the case of proposals which did not pass by consensus, the result of the vote was such. Although there were 6 members of the Commission in favour of the Hatter proposal, there were 5. There were 6 people in favour of the third amendment, and that was a fundamental question as to whether or not there was shocking. The result of the vote on the ninth and tenth amendments was 6 votes for, 3 against and 2 abstentions, 6 against and 5 abstentions respectively. All important changes have now been made. It was still unspoken who took part in the session: Uno Kaskpeit, Barbi Pilvre, here speaker, Liisa Oviir, replacing Hardi Volmer, Külliki Kübarsepp, Toomas Paur Olga Ivanova as a substitute, Raivo Aeg, Märt Sults as a substitute for Toomas Vitsut, Urve Tiidus, Valdo Randpere and the advisers of the Legal Affairs Committee. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U166	The question round will be opened by Külliki Hatter. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U167	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Indeed, the discussions were long and the Minister himself decided to be present several times and even to follow the votes. There's one thing I didn't understand, so I'm gonna ask you. Did you understand in the committee session what the Minister of Justice's objective was if he wanted to introduce an automatic shock spell? Has the problems grown exponentially in Estonia, or what is the incentive? Perhaps this is a search for political points. In my opinion, the authorities did not go along very smoothly with him because it was irrational.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U168	As the Commission has repeatedly said, there is, in fact, a possibility of imprisonment in the current judicial area. This depends on the prosecutor's decision whether or not he is repeatedly going to seek actual imprisonment for a driver caught in a criminal drunk. And as I said, the law in force has the right to impose on a person for up to five years, that is, a very harsh punishment. As you recall, the Minister of Justice's position was that this was a judicial choice, whether to prescribe to the judge that, at least for the second time, a driver caught in criminal drunkenness must in any case be sentenced to imprisonment. The initial proposal was a minimum of five days, which has been abandoned in the last proposal. But in any case, some form of punishment must be imposed on a person as a real imprisonment. The Minister's position, as far as I can remember, and you remember, too, was that it was a judicial choice, and Parliament would make a decision that would be written to the judges.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U169	Since we should discuss this proposal, we are asking for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U170	Ten minutes break. We'll proceed at 5:04.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U171	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U172	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You said that the Külliik Hatter's proposal was voted in favour of six and against five people. I read in the table that this proposal was not taken into account. How was that now? There is a slight contradiction here, to put it mildly. Who voted specifically on this proposal? Maybe you'll mediate us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U173	Thank you. The Governing Commission's proposal was to disregard this. It was supported by six and against five members of the Commission. Jaanus Karilaid, Barbi Pilvre, Liisa Oviir, Toomas Paur, Raivo Aeg and Märt Sults were in favour, and Uno Kaskpeit, Hanno Pevkur, Külmiki Kübarsepp, Urve Tiidus and Valdo Randpere were opposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U174	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U175	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Did the Minister of Justice of the IRL also present his ideas at the Commission meeting as to whether there are other areas in which he intends to implement such short-term imprisonment as an innovation? What similar proposals are still expected from the Minister of Justice in Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U176	Thank you. He did not specifically present his plans, although this was the subject of the debate on Amendment 3. In particular, Amendment 3 contains an amendment to the general part of the Penal Code, which means that in principle the provision that imprisonment is imposed and cannot be waived in certain cases is written into general provisions. In the future, this will not only apply to drunken driving, but to all provisions of the Penal Code on a proposal from the Minister. But right now, it's only offered for drunk driving.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U177	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U178	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Commission waitress! Would you remind us a little bit of the Court's position? In fact, there was a reference that if automatic imprisonment was applied, the Riigikogu itself would create an opportunity to go against the Constitution. Any automatic punishment cannot be imposed without conflicting with the principle of equal lawmaking. Would you like to expand the subject a little bit and comment on the Court's position?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U179	Indeed, we were also invited by representatives of the Supreme Court and Saale Laos introduced the court understanding of the matter. We also had a meeting with the President of the Supreme Court who said his opinion. Of course, the Supreme Court was, and I believe that it still believes that the judge must retain the right of discretion. That's the main thing. The Supreme Court admitted that the choice of legal policy is ultimately made by the parliament. Once Parliament has taken its decision, they will be able to exercise the right. If someone disputes this provision as an anti-constitutional provision, then a separate procedure is pending. But in the committee, Saale Laos admitted that the Supreme Court sought a compromise with the Ministry of Justice and one compromise was that the five-day limit would be abolished. A possible solution was sought. But it was, I believe, understandable to all Members of the Commission that the Court does not really want this change. The view that the prosecutor applies and the court decides and the judge has that freedom remains with the courts. I, too, asked the Commission whether this proposal had been discussed by the Court of Justice Advisory Board. It had not been discussed by the Courts' Administration Advisory Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U180	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U181	Thank you. The answer to my previous question made me quite concerned, to be honest. Let me get this straight. In essence, the Minister of Justice has a plan to use this short-term incarceration in Estonia on a massive basis. Did he also open this background in the Commission, and does the Minister of Justice intend to implement any measure for the mass use of short-stay confinement?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U182	I can talk about what we discussed in the Commission. The Commission was faced with the proposal of the Minister of Justice to include in the general provisions the principle that this punishment can be applied everywhere. Mr Kalmet, as a representative of the Ministry of Justice, made a point of clarification. He said that this was a legal policy guideline, and he said that such a pattern would continue to be used in the future. Those are the words of Tanel Kalmet. Urmas Reinsalu added that the Supreme Court has also said that the legislator must shape the legal political attitudes of society. He stressed that the courts would make decisions on the basis of the law, otherwise we would not need a substantive penal code, and we could say that the judge would fill all the acts in his wise judgment and determine what was unlawful and what was not, and impose a penalty. In principle, the Ministry of Justice acknowledges that it is possible to use this scheme in other cases. We did not have a debate in the Commission on what the next area could be, or whether the Minister of Justice is going to have instruments for the implementation of the sentence. We did not discuss whether any other actions could automatically be made punishable by a shock spell.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U183	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U184	I think it is time to change the attitude, because by constantly punishing and pushing people away from society, we are rejecting quite a lot of active people, and disappointment is increasing even more. Instead, I call on the government to pursue this goal in order to help people and to find a solution to their problems. It is not ethical for the Riigikogu to blackmail a legislative crack and proposals that are not facing the person, but towards establishing power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U185	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U186	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since the Rules of Procedure in force at the time of the first reading cannot and cannot be the subject of a serious debate as to whether such a law is necessary at all and whether the draft law is appropriate, all these questions must be submitted during the second reading. A number of important issues have been raised here. I would like to add a little bit of historical experience in this area. When the Penal Code IX was processed and adopted during the Riigikogu, there were several reasons for doing so. One reason was that the main problem with the amended version of the Soviet Estonian Criminal Code, which was used until then, was that it had seriously violated such a very hard-to-determinate and hard-to-perceived factor as the comparative difficulty of sanctions. In fact, the point is that there is some connection between the actual penalties and the attitude of society to the penalties imposed for certain acts. If the state comes to the point that people do not consider the penalties imposed by the courts to be fair, for example, they consider them too easy for certain acts, then it is a bad thing. And on the contrary, if most people think that the penalties are more severe than they should be, then it is the other way around. That thing went pretty much right with the Penal Code back then. Secondly, we also introduced a different system of punishment. Indeed, the maximum penalties are quite high, the judge has been given the opportunity to impose severe penalties within the allowed range. At the same time, the severity is eased by the fact that if a person has already been sentenced, the punishment can be eased. In my opinion, these are good principles, even if there can be some reproach for their practical implementation. The detention of shock does not relate at all to our Penal Code and penal practice, since the term'shock arrest' does not have a clear and unambiguous meaning. You see, for some people, even the lowest finest can be a shock. For some, however, imprisonment may seem to be a way out of his normal life - problems and inescapable situation. This is to the point that in his circle of acquaintance it is considered to be a great recognition: a good man is only the one who has survived at least one imprisonment. So the logic of this bill is wrong. Perhaps this is one of the few cases during the current Riigikogu where we can act as a Riigikogu and not as a rubber stamp, where it is clear that all members of the government coalition must vote in favour of the bill and all members of the opposition automatically oppose it. At the moment, we are working on substantive work. My time is about to end. If this problem is as serious as the Ministry of Justice claims, there are far better ways to deal with it than to break the criminal code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U187	Mr Pevkur, you have two options: do you have a question of complying with the rule or do you use § 70 of our Home and Working Procedures Act? Since the views expressed in your presentation were quite directly touched, you have two minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U188	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I am sorry, but in my report on behalf of the Commission, I did not mention two important things. Firstly, the Commission's proposal was to suspend the second reading, and secondly, it was decided to set a new deadline for the amendments on 11 April at 16 a.m. I will add it to the verbatim report so that it can be entered in the verbatim report of the sitting of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U189	Thank you for that clarification. 17 proposals have been put forward to amend this bill; we will review them together. The first amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the decision of the lead committee: take full account. The second amendment is from Külliki Hatter, the decision of the lead committee is to disregard it. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U190	Thank you, Mr President. We are asking for this proposal to be voted on and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U191	We'll be ready for the vote in a moment. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Küllik's Hatter's proposal concerning draft 328. It is the decision of the Governing Commission to disregard this. Please vote! The result of the vote: 32 members of the Riigikogu are in favour and against 32. Since the proposal did not receive a majority in favour, it has been rejected. Let's move on: the third amendment. Until Amendment 17 all proposals have been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U192	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for the third motion to be voted, perhaps one more vote will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U193	You have the right to make this request, and I have a duty to put this proposal to the vote. The voters came, and we will see if there will be the votes you wish for. I shall put to the vote Amendment 3. The decision of the Committee on Legal Affairs is to take full account of this. Please take a stand and vote. Result of the vote: for 34 and against 33. The third amendment tabled by the National Envoys remains as proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Let's continue. The fourth amendment, the decision of the Committee on Legal Affairs, is to take full account of it. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U194	I'm asking you to vote on it, and before that five-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U195	I would like to clarify that you want to vote on Amendment 4. There's a five-minute break before that, which starts now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U196	Honourable Riigikogu! The break taken by the EKRE Group has ended. I shall put to the vote Amendment 4. The decision of the Committee on Legal Affairs is to take full account of this. Please take a stand and vote. 68 MPs voted in favour of the amendment, with 2 abstentions. Amendment 4 has been accepted. Amendment 5, the decision of the Committee on Legal Affairs is to take full account of this. Amendment 6, the decision of the commission is to take full account of this. The same applies to proposals 7, 8 and 9. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U197	Thank you, Mr President. This is the most important change in the whole world, which is the same shock-freeness crap we're dealing with here. That is definitely what we are asking for to vote on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U198	We are talking about Amendment 9. Let's vote it. Mr Pevkur, since you represent the Committee on Legal Affairs, I ask whether this is a proposal from the Commission or a proposal from the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U199	The Reform Party Group is asking for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U200	Thank you. We rejected the ninth proposal, and the tenth is inevitably linked to it. If Parliament does not want to be quite foolish, then proposal 10 must also be rejected. Consequently, the Reform Party Group is asking for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U201	That's what we're gonna do in a minute. I shall put to the vote Amendment 9. Please take a stand and vote. 33 MPs voted in favour of the amendment, 40 against. The motion has been rejected. [[Let's hear it.]] Amendment 10; the decision of the Committee on Legal Affairs is to take full account of this. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U202	The Ministry of Justice, led by the IRL, has implemented the metric system years ago. Do you think we can get to that now? I understand you did not discuss this in the Commission, but you have obviously had other discussions with the current Minister of Justice as a former Minister of Justice and as a very competent person in this area. Could the direction be such that metrics will be applied in this area as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U203	On a formal basis, I should now be drawing on the Commission's debate and saying that it was not discussed by the Commission. But I guess the Minister of Justice has to ask himself what his plans are in penal law. I very much hope that these plans do not include the intention to prescribe, in addition to the penalty rate, the number of drunk drivers to be shut down. That would still be totally unacceptable. But if we take this bill, the coercive gauge has already been provided: the coercive gauge says that all drivers caught at least twice in criminal drunkenness will go to prison. Whatever it is, it's a coercive measure or something else, but it's a penalty, and no person who gets caught in criminal drunk driving for the second time is gonna get away with going to prison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U204	Thank you too, dear waitress. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U205	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, it's on the Committee on Legal Affairs, I'm not saying jokes, I'm saying weird things were born. On the one hand, we were just discussing a bill here, where the Socialist leader gave us instructions on what to do. There is now another bill in this Chamber that has come from the Minister of Justice of the IRL. I find it a little strange that Urmas Reinsalu often comes to this platform and tells us that legislation should be reduced, that too much is being done and that we are amending laws, but in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the opinion has quite frankly developed that this is what someone from the coalition said, and not from the opposition government is coming up with drafts like Vändra sawboards. If these lumberboards were perfect, cut beautifully and in the right size, it would be empty of how many of them are. But right now we have gone down this road, and this is, in my opinion, particularly remarkable for this bill, that we have increasingly started to change laws because of individual cases. There's an incident or accident in society, an accident, some mistake going through justice or somewhere else, and that's what we're about to fail to change the law. Worse still, in this particular case, we are going to change the general part of the Code. In my opinion, as an old lawyer, this is the pyramid of holiness: the Constitution, the General Part of the Code, the Special Part of the Code. The special part can be pinched and changed to get it in front of you and it has to be done. It's very rare to go for the general part. The Constitution could be respected and respected. The second tendency, which I see, and which also a little excites me, scares or irritates me as a former lawyer and as a member of the current Committee on Legal Affairs, is that belief in the effectiveness of the harsh hand policy. I studied in my own time, and I am still convinced that we were properly taught that the severity of punishment is not so much important in penal policy as the necessity of punishment. We have a fully functioning judicial system. Some of my fellow Members did not think so recently. But basically, you could say that the Estonian courts are working well, they can do their job well. It is the main task of the judges to assess the facts and to impose a penalty on the basis of each particular case. This draft was intended to deprive the judges of their right to decide particularly forcefully, and now it is in a slightly softer form in the draft. But the judges will have to impose the punishment the Ministry of Justice has invented. As a matter of principle, one thing for the sake of the verbatim is that it was also discussed in the discussions of the Committee on Legal Affairs. We have too many cases to deal with in the settlement procedure. This means, on the one hand, that the case law is falling, but, on the other hand, unfortunately quite often it means not only in the eyes of society, but also in practice that the settlement procedure is like a procedure for forgiveness. The result of the settlement procedure is, in the opinion of society, too lenient. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U206	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U207	In this sense, part of the blame could, like ballast, be put on the prosecution's office, because it is mostly the prosecutor who goes to the judge with a proposal and if the judge counts and the opposite party agrees, then it will be the settlement procedure. If the prosecutor's office were a little more forceful, Hanno Pevkur referred to it several times, also a valid code, giving the opportunity to understand people both in detention and to impose stricter penalties. And because of one case where it was not understood, it was brought to the Commission several times. I'm not gonna name it here, but one person's name and one car make came through all the time. I don't want to advertise this car brand, but that person's name was Kristjan. And because of this case, we are going to change the general part of our current code! I think it's a bit overkill, if you say it's English, it's overkill in Estonian. I don't know what could be a better translation. However, in general terms, this legislation and this legislative practice, which is, unfortunately, beginning to develop under the current Minister of Justice, could be briefly described as vulgar-popular. And that's kind of a shame. Indeed, on behalf of imaginary rating points, we are rushing to change laws that last considerably longer than some parties and their ratings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U208	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U209	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Now I am free from the Commission's tangles and I can tell you what I really think of it. I'm sorry, but this is the legal flaw we're dealing with here, the legal scum. I'm sorry for the expression, but I think so. There is no need for this law, there is no need for legislation in this form. There is a legal space: a maximum term of imprisonment of five years may be granted. There's no need to go pricking something that exists that can be changed with practice. What has the Minister of Justice repeatedly said? If certain legislation can be abandoned, it is preferable not to make a new law; if it is possible to resolve matters through practice, then they must be resolved through practice. What did the Supreme Court say? The Supreme Judge Saale Laos, who is also the head of the Criminal Chamber, if I am not mistaken, said that the Supreme Court's position is still that mandatory shock vibration is not necessary, justified and does not take into account the systematics of the Penal Code. That won't be necessary! Why does Parliament want to deal with something that is not needed? I don't understand it. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we have discussed the matter for hours, invited the President of the Supreme Court, the Head of the Criminal Chamber, representatives of the Bar Association and the State Attorney General to discuss a draft that is not necessary. If there is anything left of this bill, perhaps the part that concerns something that is not present but what is needed in the future. It's an alcohol control device. We now have electronic surveillance, and we are also giving the opportunity to use the alcohol control device. That's it, period! You could throw the rest in the trash. What do we do with this bill? We're saying that, good judge, you don't have to decide. You come into the hall, you look at the DA's indictment and you tell a person to go to jail, please. What else did the Supreme Court say? He said that there are no limits to this bill, how long it will be at the minimum necessary for a period of shock-freeness. The Ministry of Justice explained that the sentence would be imposed for certain days, so there could be one day. Is it possible for a judge to make distinctions? For example, a farmer has come from a potato field with his own sacks of potatoes and traveled in a field with his T-16, skipped with a 1.5-promile drink, and no one has been at risk except himself, he has made this choice. But we're gonna put him in jail! There is no discretion. There is no discretion in cases where, for example, a man is the sole provider of the family or there are other circumstances in which he should not be imprisoned. Yes, you can request a postponement of the sentence. But it's nothing but a timeout. To sum it up. I do not know whether Reinsalu wants to introduce mandatory metrics in Estonia. If Ken-Marti Vaher wanted to use the metrics provided by the Minister of Justice, it seems to me that Reinsalu has now put legal metrics on our table. These are legal metrics that say that every drunk driver is going to jail, and then at the end of next year, we start counting on how many people went to prison for that reason. Everyone in jail! The legal cull proposed by the Minister of Justice and the coalition's votes in this Chamber can only be rejected in one case: if this Chamber so decides. If this hall decides to interrupt the second reading today and then to stop processing the draft at all, then that will happen. I very much hope that common sense will come to our aid and we will do nothing for which there is no need. One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U210	One more minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U211	All legal experts say that it is neither legally nor essentially necessary, it would be enough for the prosecutor's office to change its pattern a little. While one Minister for Justice has a common sense that only harsh sanctions can change people's behaviour, there could be enough sense in the large Chamber of Parliament to say that decisions taken in the spirit of emotion rather than in terms of content are not what the Minister for Legislation should bring into this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U212	Before we continue the negotiations, I will say a few words for comments to those people who are monitoring our sitting through technical means. In this Chamber we are discussing drafts on a proposal from the leading committees, in this case on a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs. All other comments have been adequate. Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U213	Good vice chairman! Good ambassadors! However, this is an initiative of the Government of the Republic, which has been put on the table of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Indeed, Mr Reinsalu, the government's principal minister on this matter, has come up again with a legal cull. Honestly, that's not surprising. In fact, this issue is not just one aspect of who, and how much, restricts the decision-making power of one or another legal institution, has another aspect. It's a human being. The violation of the principle of discretion has been noted here on a number of occasions. I quote to you the words of the representative of the Supreme Court at the meeting of the Legal Affairs Committee on 19 January. He said, among other things: 'This amendment is also worrying because it does not prevent the legislator in future from supplementing other elements of the special part of the Penal Code in the application of the same sanction. ' I think that we must respect that the principle of separation of powers still applies in our country, which gives the court the right to be independent of politics, but now the courts are forced to stand before the political cart. I would like to shed some light on the Commission's debate concerning the person. The prosecutor's office, the Supreme Court and also the lawyers made it very clear that this draft does not deal with the content, or the original problem. The minister doesn't want to make a distinction between traffic hooligans and addicts. By the way, our country is actively dealing with the problem of drug addicts, but for some reason the problem of alcohol addicts is not wanted to go to the roots. Statistically, the number of addicts has remained roughly the same. The prosecutor's office and the bartender's office agreed and carried out a pilot project in South Estonia. They've sent 20 people who got caught in drunken driving for medical treatment on several occasions. Of these 17 have still not been driving intoxicated. This is a measure that is trying to bring the addict back into our society and give him a chance. The minister wants to send everything to the brig, but what is the real result? A man in fear does not heal, he becomes frustrated by isolation from society, and the problem of alcohol may be aggravated. I very much agree with what the prosecutor said who visited us in a separate committee: we should find more alternative solutions. Alternative solutions under the current law are the introduction of electronic bands that automatically measure the alcohol content of human blood, various chips, car locks. But it is considered most effective to be sent to treatment. However, today we do not have a uniform system for this in the country, even in terms of paying for treatment. The challenge is to find the origins of the problem and try to bring these people back to society. If we do not reach this, I believe that the government as a whole bears such rhetoric that it does not want to face the people, as confirmed by the law on administrative reform. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U214	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U215	This opportunity you have mentioned is certainly not supported by Parliament. No one can be fooled. [[Laughter.]] Liisa Oviir, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U216	Dear waitress, My question is about the ideology of the shocking. Should it be concluded from the political orientation of the Minister of Justice that all other means to deal with this problem have been completely exhausted in Estonia, and this institution of shock-imagination is the last option? Or is it rather a matter of 'certain professional eye flaps' or'small-mindedness', it is not seen that society also has a wide range of leverages outside penal law that could achieve the same result?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U217	This whole debate was really quite tense, in a number of Commissions. For example, Toomas Vitsut, who attended earlier Commission meetings before he was replaced by the March Sults, said that in fact other means should be used, and shock vibration is not the most sensible solution. Targeting human behaviour and implementing other educational measures could be more effective. Returning to the current criminal law will give the prosecutor the opportunity to apply for up to five years of imprisonment for drunken drivers who have been caught repeatedly in criminal driving by means of relapsed behaviour. That maximum punishment is pretty harsh. The question is, if there is a ceiling, will the floor be set, or the court will be deprived of that discretion. The Minister of Justice's position is what's in the government bill. As a result of the disputes in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Government has drawn up a compromise proposal, which is before us in the vote on Amendments 3, 9 and 10. To be precise, it is mainly Amendments 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U218	Remo Holsmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-05_U219	Honourable Riigikogu, the break taken by the Social Democratic Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote Amendment 10. The decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. Results of the vote: by 36, against 38. Amendment 10 has been rejected. Amendment 11 to the draft is the position of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. So are proposals 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17. We have examined the amendments. It is recalled that the proposal of the lead committee is to interrupt the second reading of draft 328. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 328 amendments at 16 a.m. on 11 April. Today's trial is over. Thank you for today's debates, decisions and disputes. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 5.08 p.m.
