ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will start the 7th working week Tuesday session of the VI plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, Although on 7 November there will be no military parade in honor of a huge country and no song in the Calling Light, Edita Pjehha and Jossif Kobzon, we are still paying individual and collective attention to today's birthday children. Among them is our colleague, Maire Aunaste. Congratulations! [[Let's hear it.]] Now, on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, I am ready to adopt draft laws and enquiries. Since there's no desire to hand them over, we'll do a presence check. 74 MPs participate in the sitting, 27 are absent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U2	Today's first item is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on sports initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Jüri Jaanson, Hanno Pevkur, Kalle Palling, Meelis Mälberg, Lauri Luige, Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõmme, Deniss Borodichi, Yoko Alenderi, Laine Randjärve, Heidy Purga, Arto Aasa, Kalle Laaneti, Remo Holsmeri, Aivar Sõerdi and Valdo Randpere. Please report to Laine Randjärv, Deputy Chairman of the Cultural Commission of the Speaker's Board. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U3	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The second reading of the Act amending the Sport Act 426 was prepared after the first reading at four meetings of the Committee on Culture. The dates were September 26th... Mr President, there is too much noise in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U4	I totally agree with the waitress. Let's listen to Laine Randjärv, he's always worth listening to.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U5	It's not about me, it's still about sports law, I guess. On 26 September the Riigikogu members Andres Ammas, Jüri Jaanson and Toomas Jürgenstein introduced their amendments and the representatives of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Social Affairs gave their comments. On 17 October, the Commission decided to prepare its amendment, the principle of which was that the Olympic Winner and the Paralympic Winner's support would be the same as the model chosen in the draft. On 23 October, amendments were voted and second-reading procedural decisions were taken. On 6 November, the second-reading procedural documents were approved. Now I will be more specific about the sessions and the content of the decisions that have been taken. On Tuesday, 26 September, members of the Riigikogu Jüri Jaanson and Andres Ammas had been invited to the meeting, Vice-Chancellor of Sport of the Ministry of Culture Tarvi Pürn and Head Specialist of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Mare Jõeorg. Mr Jaanson's amendment concerned the introduction of the term 'paralympic'. He explained that the amendment was due to international sports policy and the word 'Olympics' as a right to use the trademark, as well as to the fact that, as of 5 January 2017, the new name of the Estonian Paralympic Committee was the Estonian Paralympic Committee. It is internationally agreed that the title of the international title competition for people with special needs is the Paralympic Games (without an O). The amendment tabled by Mr Ammas concerned, among other things, the arrangements for the payment of the allowance to the Chess Olympic Winner. Andres Ammas explained the proposal to include the support of the Chess Olympic Winner in the Act, saying that it would mark the country's important symbolic support for the development of Estonian chess as a matter of importance for sport. Male olympics have been held as an independent competition for 90 years, 180 teams and 142 women took part in the 2016 Baku Olympics. In terms of mass and competition density, male Olympic ideals best represent the Olympic ideals, found by Andres Ammas. Since 1999, the International Malefederal Federation has been a member of the ROK. The inclusion of chess in the summer or winter Olympics has so far been hampered by the overburdening of the Olympic programme. There is currently one male Olympic winner in Estonia, this is Jaan Ehlvest. According to Tarvi Pürn, the Ministry of Culture did not support this proposal. Although the Ministry does not want to question chess as a sport's dignity and position in society, it believes that the introduction of new areas could be preceded by a separate discussion. The proposals of Toomas Jürgenstein and Helmen Kütt provided that everyone would receive a subsidy of 1.3 times the average gross monthly wage. The aim of the amendment is to equalise the grants of the Olympic winner and the winner of the Paralympic Games. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained that the Ministry has based itself on the government's Spring Decision to support an increase in the Olympic Winner's support and to propose to the Minister for Social Protection that this issue be addressed in the preparation of the state budget for 2018. The subsidy rate could be the average wage for the fourth quarter of 2016, which according to Statistics Estonia's data was 1182 euros. The Ministry of Culture took a similar view to the Ministry of Social Affairs and considered that the amount of the grant could already be higher in the following financial year. It was also found that if the current practice is such that both target groups receive the same support, then the same practice should be followed in the future. The Committee on Culture decided to consider a proposal which would be synchronised with the rate of the Budget Act 2018 and would be stablely linked to the average wage. On 17 October, the subject was on the agenda again. The Committee on Culture considered it appropriate to prepare its amendments setting out the same amount of public support for the Olympic Winner and the Paralympic Winner, the estimated amount of which would be one of the average gross monthly wages published by Statistics Estonia in the third quarter. On 23 October, 426 amendments to the draft law amending the Law on Sport were discussed and second-reading procedural decisions were taken. I shall now turn to the amendments. It was decided to take full account of the proposal by the Committee on Culture for a technical amendment to the draft regulation and for a change in the structure. It was a consensual decision. Jüri Jaanson's proposal (amendment No 2) to introduce the term 'paralympic' was not supported by the Commission because it was found that the Paralympic Games are used as a general term in the text of the Act and not as the official name of the games, which is why the Estonian language rules should be used. The names of the organisations are the Estonian Paralympic Committee and the International Paralympic Committee, but the Sport Act should be based on the Estonian written language norm and the word 'paralympic'.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U6	Yeah!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U7	I shall put to the vote Amendment 2 tabled by Mr Jaanson. The decision of the Governing Commission is not to be taken into account. Please vote! The proposal was opposed by 51 delegates and 6 were in favour, with 9 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture. The decision of the commission is to take full account. The fourth amendment has been tabled by Mr Ammas. The commission has decided not to take the proposal into account and this proposal is not to be voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. The fifth amendment has been tabled by Mr Jürgenstein and, separately, by Mr Küttt. The decision of the commission is to take part in the calculation. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined five amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 426. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U8	Sorry, waitress! The negotiations will definitely come, but a little later. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U9	The third proposal was the proposal of the Committee on Culture to establish the same amount of support for the Olympic Winner and the Paralympic Winner, the estimated amount of which is the average gross monthly wage published by Statistics Estonia in the third quarter of the previous calendar year, the new amount of the allowance may not be less than that of the previous year. The Commission considered that the draft under discussion had to be adopted as a law before the State Budget Act of 2018, after which the new regulation of the Sport Act would have to be used as a basis for determining the subsidy. The Ministry of Culture supported this proposal. According to his written explanation, the Ministry of Social Affairs generally supported the proposal, but did not agree with the condition that the new amount of support would not decrease if the average salary were to decrease. The Committee on Culture disagreed on this matter, as there is still a regulation that does not reduce the amount of existing support. The Committee on Culture maintained its wording and decided unanimously to support the amendment. The amendment proposed by Andres Ammas to include the support of the Male Olympic Winner in the Act was not supported by the Committee on Culture. As this proposal received only one vote in favour of the vote, the amendment is not to be voted in the large Chamber. The Ministry of Culture did not support the proposal submitted either, as it would be a specific competition for a sport on the list. The fifth amendment, or identical amendments tabled by Toomas Jürgenstein and Helmen Küti, was partly taken into account. On 23 October, procedural decisions were taken, all of which were taken in a consensual manner: to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda by 7 November, to propose that the second reading be stopped and to propose that the time of making available the documents on which the second reading was based be reduced by one day to the members of the Riigikogu; they were made available on 6 November at 5.15 p.m. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture on 6 November, it was decided by consensus that the draft should be sent to third reading when the second one is terminated. Thank you for your attention, which was not so much!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U10	Thank you very much. A violent preparation buzz refers to a storm of questions. It's open by Jüri Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First, a small correction: the word 'Olympia' is protected, not 'Olympia'. But I'd like to ask you about proposal number one. The Committee on Culture says that this amendment is a technical norm, but in fact there is a deep element of substance hidden behind it. In particular, both the current Sport Act and the draft amendment to the Sport Act submitted by the initiators have dealt with the support of the Olympic Winner and the support of the Paralympic Winner separately. With this technical amendment to the norm, they are essentially brought together under § 1. What was the point of this assembly? Why was it done?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U12	Thank you for your question. We have indeed specified this with the lawyers of the Committee on Culture. In fact, they have not been distinguished in the current sports law either. The practice that both target groups receive the same support is valid. In this sense, this first amendment does not make a fundamental change in this context, as you are now asking here. Paralympic and conventional Olympics have also been treated in a similar way in the current version of the Sport Act; they are not specifically mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U13	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U14	Thank you. I understand that the general attitude within the Commission has developed so that the treatment of the Paralympic Winner and the Normal Olympic Winner should be equal. Did you also consider that the next time the state awards prizes to the winner of the traditional Olympics and the Paralympic Games, it should be taken into account that these bonuses are equal, and should allocate the same amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U15	Thank you. We were not discussing the government awards at the Commission, either in the context of the World Championship or the Olympic Games. This particular issue was not discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U16	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U17	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Will the Minister of Culture be able to recognise the winners of the various Olympic Games equally today? Are there no obstacles to the law in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U18	I don't think so. This monthly allowance shall be paid on the basis of the law. But when it comes to a concrete achievement, the government decides to reward its meetings separately. We're talking about two different things right now. One is the prize immediately after the achievement, which the Government of the Republic decides, and what we are talking about here is the support that a person receives when he reaches retirement age. In fact, this time has been brought forward ten years ahead; it is not equated to the retirement age which is so-called according to the law. So it's about the other system.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U19	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U20	Thank you, good waitress. I am very sympathetic about the concern of our Olympic medalist and the real initiator of this draft that these two things will be identified. Did the Commission also discuss more seriously the differences and similarities between these two phenomena? Paralympic and Olympic are very different things in their social meaning and certainly in their competition, but the social meaning of this support is also different. A paralyzed person has a different social support system than an athlete who has sacrificed his or her career in the name of sport with high probability, not necessarily. When discussing these differences, was there any difference in the level of support in consideration, or is it sufficient only to have a similarity between words and the existence of an external competitive moment so that the amount would be the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U21	Thank you. This is an exceptionally good question, because it was a very thorough discussion. The biggest discussions related precisely to this subject. We received a very good draft consultation from one of the initiators and silver medalists of the Olympic Games, Jüri Jaanson, who has very specific experience of dedicating himself completely to the competition of the Olympic Games, so that no other work can be done at that time, to achieve a medal. Yeah, it was a long discussion. The members of the Committee on Culture cannot decide these matters on the basis of personal experience, but they will decide on the emotion that the Olympics will bring with them. This is a very subjective attitude, I'll find. We do not really know how to put ourselves in the shoes of the participants in the Paralympic Games; we do not know how to put ourselves in the shoes of the participants in the ordinary Olympic Games unless we ourselves have taken part in this process. We don't know how much effort it is for a person with a disability, but who's gonna outdo himself and go to this competition. If he puts his country first for example, the flag of that country will rise and the anthem will play. The emotions that the Olympic Games bring to society as a whole are so extraordinary that it even seems to me that it is perhaps inappropriate to trade it in any way. At present, one person receives this support as a recipient of the gold medal at the Paralympic Games. The next one may be in 29 years, if we really think about it. I do not want to say that the Riigikogu should easily decide whether the coefficient of this support could be 0.65 in one case and 1.3 in the other, as the performers had planned, or in both cases it should be 1. You might ask if it's a lot of money or a little money. I think it is rather a question of a social attitude; it expresses our attitude towards people who still have to make superhuman efforts to get themselves out of their four walls at all, out of their apartments to train. So it's a question with very many ends, it's not just a financial issue. We also discussed this at length with representatives of the Olympic Committee. Well, theoretically and rationally, they're different competitions, but in the context of society's entire soul life, I think that this equalization will raise us all instead of lowering us down.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U22	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U23	Thank you. Indeed, emotions are important, but emotional decisions are not the best. We are talking, however, not so much about equalising, but about treating together or separately. However, I would now like to ask another question. In 2005, prior to the entry into force of the Sport Act, the situation was analysed and the amount of the Olympic Winner's allowance was set at one-and-a-half times the gross wage rate. Now, by decision of the Committee on Culture, it is reduced to the average gross wage. What's the point?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U24	Thank you. The Committee on Culture worked to make the law a change that links this support to a certain coefficient. At present, according to the law, it was more possible to determine the amount of this subsidy each year according to the budgetary possibilities. For ten years, this support was not increased because there were no financial and budgetary opportunities, in the meantime there was a period of depression, and it was good that this support was not withdrawn at all. It's been long talked about. This support was in fact not yet linked to any coefficient at all. In my opinion, the great victory of this draft is that, although the Ministry of Social Affairs was most opposed to linking this support to a specific coefficient, such as the current average salary, a consensus was finally found in the negotiations and the decision of the Committee on Culture was to introduce the coefficient into the law. Of course, it could be 1.3 or 1.5 or even 2, depending on the budgetary possibilities. In order for the law to apply, we also negotiated with the Ministry of Finance, which had theoretically allocated one average size for the next financial year. You can always come back to amending the law in the future and if there is an agreement with the Ministry of Finance to increase this coefficient to 1.5, I think that if there are opportunities, no one will mind. We have now changed the paradigm with this bill; this principle is linked to the coefficient. If necessary, we will be able to clarify this in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U25	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U26	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! As a former athlete, I want to ask you this question. A top athlete who has brought fame, honour and gloria to Estonia may one day become a non-peak athlete. Instead of desperate trauma and the Olympics, he'll be attending the Paralympic Games next time. How is it that the state does not value or secure the future and old age of our heroes, or gladiators today? A factor of 1.5 is not money of any kind. Coefficient 0,9, EUR 860 just about whatever the amount is, all amounts are small. You know very well how much a trauma treatment, for example, costs. If an athlete has to pay for it himself, it doesn't make any sense. You have to respect and love your heroes. Is that what it's meant for?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U27	I did not understand very well the precise content of this question. The Committee on Culture has now decided that the winners of the Olympic Games are worth giving priority to them and that, regardless of the economic situation in the country, it goes up or down, they must be guaranteed at least an average salary at retirement age. We're not talking about being able to work. If he is in an accident and suffers from disability, he will have other social benefits and additional guarantees. The state will then not necessarily treat it as an Olympic winner who is paralyzed but as a person who has been in an accident or who has suffered something, and will receive disability benefits. So we are still talking about the monthly support that will be paid ten years before the retirement age for those people who have achieved outstanding results at the Olympic Games.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U28	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U29	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I fully agree with your comments and share your views on the recognition of the Paralympic Winners. I think that they deserve exactly the same recognition as all the people who brought fame to the Estonian state. But my question is on the same subject in some ways, if I understood correctly, what Jüri Jaanson said, who said that these things could be dealt with separately. If I didn't get this right, be good and just get it done. Are these things at one point and if they are, did you not consider that they could be at different points? The second question is somewhat due to this. It's not directly related to the subject of the bill, but you talked about it in answer to one question, and you've also been a minister in this field. Shouldn't we still have a fixed system in the country, which rates are even applicable to the winnings of sports competitions? It should not be the case that each time these rates are decided at government level.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U30	I'll start at the back. When we talk about these one-off performance bonuses, they are actually fixed in advance each year. Not at the government meeting now, and now it is not decided that we have such an emotion, and now we are giving so much money, but that these orders of magnitude are, in principle, in place. It's still possible to decide if they're somehow shared between the crew, there are some of these options, but the orders of magnitude are still in place. However, they are in place according to the budgetary possibilities. I don't know exactly what it's like right now, but while I was a minister, the orders of magnitude were really in place. Our great happiness was simply that they were not reduced at the time when there was a depression and almost all budgets were reduced. These bonuses were not reduced. There have also been discussions on whether or not to give them at all, there have been major discussions and there have been some ideas that we could give all this money to the Olympic Committee, who will then see how these things are. So there are different views. Someone thinks that giving a government-level bonus is a great honour that increases society's attention, another thinks it is, I don't know, a waste of money, populism, or so on. The attitudes and views vary widely. It depends on the government how this decision is made. As regards the first question, we also discussed whether the concept of the Paralympic Games should be included in this law at all, I am not even talking about a separate point, but about whether or not this law at all. Perhaps this law should only concern the winners of the Olympic Games and the topic of the Paralympic should be in a completely separate law. That is what we really discussed, but we did not reach a consensus. So what you're seeing right now is consensus. I cannot say that everyone would have been passionately in favour of one thing or another, or who was exactly in favour of what, but that is what the Committee on Culture finally agreed. I guess these are the political decisions that we find consensus. Some or others may not like it, but it seemed like the most humane option at the moment. Of course, there may be further improvements to this law and changes to it in such a way that it only concerns the Olympic Games in its literal sense. Then we must definitely negotiate with the Paralympic Committee and with its President and Presidency, who are also in this Chamber. So why not, if the proposal is to deal with these things in a separate law? I think we all know here that we can initiate different laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U31	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U32	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I don't think I made myself clear, but now I'm asking very, very specific questions. How are comparable state budget expenditures, for example, for the welfare of our Olympic hangar and icon Erika Salumäe, and for example budget expenditure for 'Estonian Republic 100' or for the development of a brand? There are immeasurable differences here. One is a passing phenomenon because after 100 comes 101, but Erika Salumäe is our icon and remains our icon. He must sell his trophies, bicycles and all other things in order to get his health right; the Republic of Estonia does not care. Where does that make sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U33	Thank you. For 'Estonia 100', budgetary decisions are made by the current coalition. Mr. Märt Sults, I suggest you turn to the Minister for Finance and the Prime Minister of the Coalition to clarify how you appreciate this correlation between you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U34	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U35	Good waitress! You said here, and it really is that these are two different issues that we shouldn't be confused about. One thing is this essential social support, which Märt is talking about. Indeed, we owe this social support to people who are important to us. At the same time, you mentioned the award, and you said that the award doesn't have emotions. Is it right that there are no emotions in the award? The result prize is, in my opinion, conceivable only with emotion, for the simple reason that in very many fine sports, such as racing, orienting in the forest, etc., the importance of the Estonian people in a hundred metres or in a basketball competition is irrelevant. In this sense, equalising all areas is, in my opinion, inherently wrong. A government that awards results without emotion is a very poor government. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U36	Thank you, good Igor! Maybe I made a mistake, or maybe I stopped thinking. Of course, all kinds of results are emotional in viewers. If the spectators of the race are passionate about the area and go, I don't know, to the river, to the lake or to the sea, to see how their favorites are fishing, and if they win, then surely the emotion is on the ceiling of their thumb holders. So who's the mother, who's the daughter, as they say? One guy likes one competition, one guy likes another. In any case, sympathizers get emotional. It is simply a question of how it has been agreed in society which competitive areas should be rewarded from the state budget. Absolutely not all things can be rewarded there, and that is why it has been tried to decide, i.e. without emotion, and to provide the government with a certain rule, order or system, according to which certain sports that give rise to, or give rise to, a greater response in society as a whole can be rewarded separately. But the government cannot show passion or emotion in its decision-making, because the budget is limited to certain financial resources. Perhaps someone would like to give extraordinarily much money in front of winning the first place in a triathlon, for example, but somebody else doesn't know anything about the triathlon and decides that it doesn't have to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U37	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U38	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! In some ways, it comes from my question or rather from your answers. Let me get this straight. You think it's right that single athletes' bonuses and collective bonuses are equal? In fact, the team bonus should be a little higher. The second question stems from the comparison between the Paralympic and the conventional Olympics. Was there such a contrast in the Commission? I consider it a very bad tone first and, secondly, I personally do not support the fact that we have two laws. My idea was that there could be two separate points, so these things would just be on different rows.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U39	Thank you. They are now listed as separate rows. The emotions in the committee were, of course, emotions. People expressed their opinion, some had some preferences, others, but it does not just concern this particular point. The Committee on Culture is an exceptionally emotional committee, and I understand that the Committee on Culture is ultimately one of the most consensual and team-operated committees at all. We do not actually have too much of such an exclusionary vote; however, in the debate on most of the topics, we reach similar positions for the benefit of culture and education. Since, good Helmut, you can put a number of questions into your question every time, I think I've already answered more or less four questions, but when it comes to government decisions on team or individual action or, let's say, rewarding the result, I wouldn't be opening this discussion right now. One thing is what my personal opinion is or was once ten years ago, but the other is that the Committee on Culture did not discuss this particular subject under this point. I don't think there's any point in dragging this discussion too long here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U40	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U41	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! Our discussion today has become quite philosophical, which is why I promise myself a more philosophical question. My good colleague Jüri Jaanson and I have sometimes discussed sports, including chess. The last time we got caught up, we got caught up in a line of reasoning. If chess isn't a sport, then what is it? What area of human activity could it fall under? And from whom am I supposed to ask now, if not the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U42	Thank you. If you two giants couldn't find a simple and one answer or decide it, and now you want me to quickly define it here in one sentence, you have given me very high expectations. I am extremely grateful for this compliment. I think chess is definitely a very important competition area that develops our brains. Actively maintaining brain activity can sometimes be even better maintained than any physical activity, whether running, rowing, or apologizing! Or fencing, for example. People who are active in thinking sometimes live longer than those who are active in top sports. Nowhere is it said that top sport is necessarily healthy. So this philosophical debate could continue indefinitely. I would rather not put a point here because think how terribly boring it would be if I were to give a final solution now, and in the future I could not discuss exactly what this chess is. So let's keep talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U43	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U44	Thank you. I understand, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure Act, that you have now described the discussions in the Committee on Culture. But what right do you have to quit? Tell me everything you've discussed in there. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U45	We had four very meaningful meetings. In general, it's a very good point, by the way. In 20 minutes, it will not be possible to say absolutely everything we did in these four sessions. All interested parties will have access to our protocols, which are public. Read them from the beginning to the end, it says in a name who said what sentence at the moment. That material is all there is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U46	Dear waitress, thank you very much. We're starting negotiations now. Jüri Jaanson will take the floor first. As this is a second reading, all members of the Riigikogu have a say. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U47	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you very much for the Wave! I am really glad that the draft law amending the Law on Sport 426 has reached a second reading. I would also like to congratulate the Committee on Culture, as Laine also said, on the debate on this extremely emotional, passionate topic. I also stress that if we move forward with this bill, the main objective will be met, i.e. the support of the Olympic winner will be linked to a financial instrument that takes account of some change in the cost of living. That's all that matters. However, I would like to make a few specific points. First of all, I disagree with Laine Randjärv on whether the support of the Olympic winner and the Paralympic Winner is marked separately in the current sports law. Paragraph 13 (2) of the current Sport Act makes them completely separate, that is my position. Secondly, the amount of the subsidy, which was also asked about here. In 2005, when the Riigikogu passed the Sports Act, it decided that the allowance was the same as the average salary of one and a half times. I don't see why it needs to be changed right now. Consequently, I tabled an amendment to the draft state budget law for the second reading that we have next week. Additional resources are needed to provide additional support to a total of 10 Olympic winners today, at EUR 39000. In the longer term, I would like to dwell on Amendment 1. It's called norm engineering, but it's not really a norm engineering. I would like to emphasise once again that the lawyers of the Committee on Culture, or whoever has hidden a very significant substantive change, have been behind this. If the current Sport Act deals specifically with the support of the Olympic Winner and the Paralympic Winner, and the initiators of the amendment of the Sport Act have dealt with it separately, then here they are now put together. The question of why it was done has not been answered by me. The bad thing is that such a substantive change is called "normal engineering." I'm bringing the parallel that this technical behavior tends to develop in sports. If we heal lipsticks, add value to growth hormone and muscle growth, is that a technical or substantive thing? Allegedly, it's technical, it's a mistake. So this behavior is very, very deplorable. That is why I am clearly showing the red card to the Committee on Culture here. I will also talk a little about Amendment 2, which I made because the term 'Olympia' is protected internationally and therefore 'paralympic games' has been transformed into 'paralympic games'. The winner of the Paralympic Games will then be the one who has gained first place in the Paralympic Games. Can I have more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U48	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U49	Consequently, I have tabled this amendment. The reason for this rejection was that 'paralympic games' is the Estonian word. In fact, that is not the case, since both 'para' and 'Olympia' are derivatives of Greek, all these terms originate from outside Estonian. I think we should go along with changing the world, so that there's no discord when we call something here the same, but in the world it's called it a whole different thing. When I conclude, I will be pleased to have the second reading of this draft closed. I hope that we can also vote through a couple of amendments and perhaps give the Committee on Culture additional lessons to correct this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U50	The draft provisions will continue to be discussed by Monika Haukanõm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U51	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Here on the remote is often said that I came here to tell myself unexpectedly. I never really understood it, because I've always planned to come here. Today is the first time I have to say that I came here from a remote emotion. First of all, I would very much like to congratulate the Committee on Culture. I was also one of the signatories to this bill, although I must admit that I would have liked it very much if there had been the same size as the Paralympic Winner and the Olympic Winner from the beginning. But I also understood the approach of the initiator of the bill. So, special thanks to the Committee on Culture for the harmonisation of grant rates. Why do I think it's so important? I cannot accept, in principle, the view that we have so-called ordinary people, or the right people, then there will be a lot of empty ground, and then we will say that these are different people. Fortunately, society's attitude has changed a lot. We have an operational capacity reform, we say that we expect people with special needs to participate in the labour market. We currently have a draft law on basic school and upper secondary school in this Chamber, in which we are talking about inclusive education. Perhaps we are moving more and more towards ensuring that all people are equal in society. On one of the questions put to the rapporteur in this Chamber, it was about the idea that the winner of the Paralympic Games and the winner of the ordinary Olympic Games and their contributions are uncompetitively different things. Are they really uncompetitively different things? I don't think so. All these people are making an effort. I certainly do not want to say that any less would be done by a traditional athlete Olympic winner or that the Paralympic winner would make them less. They're both doing everything they can because of their abilities. In order to qualify at all, the Paralympic Winner will also have to carry out an exact qualification cycle. He has to do everything he can to make it to that race. Since the Winter Olympics are coming up in February, I will give some examples of the Winter Olympics. We don't have too many athletes who can qualify for the Paralympic. There is only one athlete who has won a medal for Estonia during the two Winter Paralympic Games. This is Vilma Nugis, who in 1994 and 1998 brought Estonia a medal in skiing, in the classical area. There aren't any more. Qualification is not as easy as it is, for example, our athletes have not qualified at the last three winter Olympics. Luckily, we have an athlete going to the Winter Olympics in February. It's Kardo Plumpuu. He is the first Estonian athlete to participate in both the summer Olympics and the Winter Olympics. Perhaps I consider it very justified that these grants are of the same size. Could this coefficient be 1.0 or 1.3? I think it could be 1.3. Our Olympic winners deserve the support of the state and I very much agree that this support should be greater. On the other hand, I very much agree that regardless of whether it is a Paralympic Winner or an Olympic Winner, we value all people in the same way and that support is the same. This is not too much for our country; I am also absolutely convinced of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U52	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U53	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests from Finland, the best social workers in Sipoo municipality on the balcony! Many thanks and congratulations to all the drafters! The fact that the second reading of this draft is taking place today shows once again that regardless of who is presenting the draft, if the change is right and good, it will be done together. I had this experience myself when I was in opposition and presented a draft exemption from student loans for parents of children with deep and severe disabilities. It is true that, at the time, in 2013, the bill that I presented became slightly weaker, i.e. the cancellation of the student loan for parents of children with severe disabilities was excluded. Fortunately, however, this error has been corrected by the current government and parents of children with severe disabilities can now also apply for the cancellation of student loans. There is reason to welcome the fact that today's second-reading sports law has become fairer than the one initially proposed. Toomas Jürgenstein and I proposed improvements that equal the support of the Olympic Winner and the Paralympic Winner. We based our proposals on the Constitution, which says that everyone is equal before the law, as they say in sport, fair play. In fact, I found it very surprising that the drafters, including those who spoke for people with special needs, submitted a draft which would have valued the Paralympic Winner only with 65% of the support compared to the Olympic Winner's support. Fortunately, in the Committee on Culture, our proposals for improvement were supported and today, in the second-reading draft, grants have been equalized. I am seriously pleased that the subsidies of our people who have brought honour and fame to Estonia through sport, whose competition is monitored by hundreds of thousands of Estonians in holding their breath, and whose victories even armchair athletes feel like winners. I would like to quote a good fellow official, Toomas Jürgenstein, who said at first reading: 'In the period between 2500 years, we have reached the recognition of people with disabilities as full members of society. Yes, it has been a long journey, there have been many setbacks, but the goal has been that the value and dignity of a person should be preserved and protected despite his peculiarity. In the Olympic movement we have also reached a situation where the Olympic ideals are also open to disabled people at the Paralympic Games. It seems to me that we would take another step and also recognise the development of society towards humanity if support under our draft had been the same in the Olympic Games and the Paralympic Games. " Today we are taking this step. Finally. The Sunday rain radio's Mnemo tournament asked what the neurosurgeon and spinal injury physician Ludwig Guttmann had gone into the history of sports. The "mnemo tournament" wise people thought long and finally got the right answer. I know there's at least one person in this hall, Toomas Jürgenstein, who knows the right answer. Maybe some of you also happened to listen to this show, and then there are several of them here. But I can tell you right now that the correct answer will be known to everyone in this Chamber today. On 29 July 1948, which was also the day of the opening of the London Olympic Games, Ludwig Guttmann organized an archery and cheap competition for patients at his clinic. This was the first step towards the emergence of the Paralympic Games. Let it be said that this question was chosen to be the best in the 'Mnemo tournament'. Why not be one of the candidates for the selection of the best laws of 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U54	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Only in the name of the honesty of the debate did I come here without hope or belief that we would necessarily need to settle any disagreements about this bill. First of all, about Monika's speech. No one has said that the paralympic and the Olympics are competitively different. No one has said that. However, I, too, said in my question that their competitive situation was different. The meaning of the paralympic is also different. There is indeed an important fact of human involvement itself. The conditions of competition are very different. In fact, in these competitions, people with fewer disabilities often win, we all know that. I've been doing sports, and I can turn to the subject. That's Jüri Jaanson, who's both an Olympic hangar and an apology! A disabled person, a person with hearing impairments, from the heart makes an argument, so you don't mock him in any way, twist his words, but you have to admit that he knows everything you want to say. He knows exactly that there are fewer participants in the Paralympic and that its social significance is smaller. The enthusiasm is not so great among hundreds of thousands of people, the Paralympics are not usually carried on their heads; people are not so sympathetic to this competition, but that does not mean that the effort of these people is not important. Of course it is. The question is simply that this is the essence of sport: every seriously engaged in sport does so with full commitment. I can give you my own example. I don't want to identify myself as a sportsman, but basically, I've been doing sports as a maximist, with no hope of becoming an Olympic winner. Do I have to be rewarded for this? No, you don't! Under no circumstances do you have to, you still have to reward a person who has reached the absolute peak. This is the view of the author of this bill. Let us respect that and let us not claim that he has somehow underestimated the paralympic. Now for the size of that support. In fact, it is not only about the fact that social attention to the paralyzed competitions is lower and the number of competitors is smaller, but also about the fact that their social system is different. Due to the paralysis, other subsidies are paid, other inclusions are used, special conditions are created for these people. We should not fight very much on this issue at all, nor take sides with each other, and give a different meaning to the words. There's a compromise. Although Jüri Jaanson felt that these rates could be different, and although I understand his arguments very well and even though they were not covered by the vote, it is not worth understating him or the thinkers in the same way by giving a new meaning to the words. These are different things, these are different areas of competition, these people have different social positions, these people have different destinies. When it comes to different forms of support, it is not a tragedy that we should point fingers at each other. So the conditions of competition are different, no one has said that these things are competitively different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U56	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U57	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I've already thanked the drafters here once, and I'll do it again. I very much like this discussion in this Chamber, with one exception, which I also mentioned to my good colleague Laine Randjärv in matters, namely that this is not a good contrast, in my opinion. It could undoubtedly have been emotional. But still, both categories, or regular Olympic winners and Paralympic winners, bring fame to the country. Kardo Plumpuu, mentioned here, makes history when he participates in the two Olympics, both the summer and the winter Olympics. I am pleased that these improvements to this bill have been made. If we continue on the subject of the previous speaker, we can say that the Olympic winners are actually different, in the sense that there are completely different areas. Whether ball games or individual areas, be it rowing or running, they are all completely different. In fact, even before the Olympics, exceptions are made to the conditions that people meet when preparing for the Olympics, the preparation grants and scholarships are different. The whole world is different, we're all unique. Finally. The Centre Party supports the idea of this draft and the adoption of this draft as a law. Jüri Jaanson brought the bureaucratic term 'financial instrument' into this debate, but it is important to support Olympic winners when they have reached the point that they can no longer do their main job. It is certainly a very good sign that we are equalising these two subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U58	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Five amendments have been tabled for draft 426. Let's go through them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture and the decision is to take full account. Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U59	Bowing before the Olympic tradition, please vote on it!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U60	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by the Committee on Culture. The decision of the commission is to take full account. Please take a stand and vote. 69 MPs voted in favour of the proposal and 4 were against, with no abstentions. The proposal was confirmed and supported. A second amendment has been tabled by Jüri Jaanson, member of the Riigikogu. The decision of the commission is to disregard the proposal. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U61	I ask you to vote on this!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U62	We shall put the second amendment to the vote. Dear Riigikogu, are we ready to vote? Jüri Jaanson has proposed to vote, are you ready? Good for you! I shall put to the vote Amendment 2... Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U63	I wanted to come to the aid of Mr Jüri and put this matter to the vote as Vice-Chair of the Free Party Group. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U64	That's what we're gonna do, and we're gonna do it right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U65	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. I invite a speech chair to the presentation by Martin Helme, a member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U66	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Conservative People's Party has brought before you a draft aimed at narrowing the possibilities for foreigners and non-Estonian legal persons to acquire immovable property. This bill has two main objectives. The first objective is to reduce the movement of agricultural and forestry property into the hands of owners who do not actually live or operate in Estonia. This should result in Estonia's own citizens being able to start using land for good. There are some important nuances about this law. Due to our membership of the European Union, we cannot clearly say that citizens or legal persons of another country may not acquire land or forests in Estonia, but in several European countries such practices have been used to create certain conditions that apply equally to all, but the real effect of which is that they help to discourage land or forest going abroad. These conditions, according to our draft, are as follows (I will read them all out in order to be as correct as possible). First of all, the ability to speak Estonian must be either B1 level or the buyer must personally explain in the national language the future use of the rural unit in agricultural or forestry production. In the case of a legal person, the sole owner or majority shareholder of that institution or undertaking must have knowledge or skills in the field of agriculture or forestry. We have also provided a limit that the tax debt to the Estonian state must not exceed 150 euros and must have been resident for tax purposes in Estonia for at least five years. I would point out that such restrictions are used by Denmark and Latvia, for example. This is no one's discriminatory behaviour, because the Estonian citizen who buys the land must also meet the same conditions. We started drafting the bill so early that there's a word in it like "lord." The law has now been amended, so if we continue to process this draft, some technical corrections will also have to be made here, but the point of the draft is clear. At the committee meeting, where I was not myself, but where my group members explained this draft, there was a debate about how burning the problem is that the land and forest move to foreign property in Estonia. The Ministry has produced various statistics. This statistics clearly show that over the last seven or six years, the number of land or forests owned by foreigners has increased steadily. According to the Land Administration, 8.5% of privately owned land is owned by foreigners and 5,6% of all land ownership is owned by them. For example, in 2001, 4.7% of all land owned by foreigners and 7.1% of privately owned land. Foreigners own 5.7% of rural land, but 8.5% of privately owned land. In fact, agricultural and forestry enterprises estimate this percentage to be much higher. The difference comes because legal persons may also be registered in Estonia, but their owners or main owners are not residents of Estonia. It is important that, in a situation where the world's population is growing and demand for food is growing, demand for land in Europe and, in fact, in the rest of the world is very high. Large international investment funds are putting their money in the ground. The Chinese state is very systematic in buying-in land, not only in Estonia, of course, but also in Africa or Latin America, for example. So this pressure is completely considerable and the trend clearly shows growth. Our proposal is not to ban foreigners from having land in Estonia. Another important aspect, which is not within this law, but which is actually a problem that has also emerged during the discussions, is that we have a very large concentration of land in the hands of a smaller circle of owners. Here, too, you might actually consider the possibility of setting some limit. But that's not in the bill right now. So it is our wish that Estonia's own people can obtain land more easily. This desire to buy foreigners makes the price of the land more expensive, by the way, which means that young people with agricultural education, for example, find it harder to enter this business and it is harder for existing Estonian companies to expand, because foreign companies with significantly higher levels of capitalisation simply buy away from the land. We consider this to be a problem. Our aim is for Estonians to be masters in their own country, and we want to create enough obstacles to minimise the movement of land or forest property to foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U67	I think I'm expressing a general opinion, saying thank you. There are no questions. Still, Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U68	I'm still asking, I finally got there and listen. You are talking about Estonian property, talking about ethnic Estonians or anyone. How do you address the wish of the Estonian owner to sell the land? Is this something inherently criminal? I think one of the inalienable qualities of property is that you can trade it for some other property if you wish. If we restrict the opportunities of owners, will we do good or harm to Estonians?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U69	Thank you. No, we are not talking about ethnic Estonians; we are talking about Estonian citizens and permanent residents. About 1.3 million natural persons live in Estonia, as far as I know, and here I do not remember exactly more than 100,000 legal persons. If they don't have a purchase request, we probably have a very big problem at all. But I think there are people who want to buy pieces of land and forests, including those natural and legal persons. For whom is it harmful, and for whom is it beneficial? If the price of anything goes up, it's always good for someone and it's bad for someone. The question is, who will benefit? Yes, for those people who would like to sell their forest or forest tree, even though in Estonia the forest is mainly sold as cutting rights, not as land, it is not useful if the price no longer rises at the rate it has risen, or may even fall. But those people who want to start farming, for example, and want to buy land will certainly improve their chances. So it's not just that someone's bad. Someone's good, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U70	Meelis Mälberg.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I expect you to be more familiar with this point in preparation with statistics and even more familiar with it. How is this deal resolved with our neighbours and, more generally, in the European Union at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U72	Thank you. It has to be said that we have quite a lot of research into the example of Latvia, and the inspiration for launching this draft was given to us from Latvia. However, this practice is used both in Denmark and Austria. In Denmark, specifically, there is a requirement that there must be a previous experience of agricultural activity or a special agricultural education, then a non-Tanese or a national of another country can buy land (nearly no forest in Denmark). In Latvia there is a requirement for language skills, which we have also included in the draft. There are similar restrictions in some places. This practice is different. The main thing that must be emphasised here is that, although the government spins this issue around that there may be a conflict with the Treaties on the European Union, the practice is that many countries are using such restrictions and the conflict with the European Union treaties has not been established. Perhaps such a siege is possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U73	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question is inspired by your response to Jürgen Ligi. I read that you don't see a problem when someone starts reducing our assets by imposing restrictions on buyers. If at one point I want to take out the fruits of my years of work, it is as if you are satisfied with the fact that their price has fallen in the general interest. Doesn't that seem a little strange in the country we live in right now? Question two. You have certainly seen that because the price of agricultural land has risen, even though it is relatively similar, also in terms of rent, which is aid per hectare, production activity has become more profitable and businesses as a whole have become stronger.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U75	I find it strange to hear that the market fundamentalist Reform Party no longer believes in the market price, but thinks that our country should have a global market price, not a domestic market price. However, if all Estonian people can buy and sell land among themselves, it is also a market. If the Chinese with their state capitalism or Germans or Dutch or Finns who have had European Union subsidies for 50 years and whose capitalisation levels are many times higher than our own, come to our market to buy farmland, this is not the normal functioning of the market, then our market must be protected. We are not ashamed that we want to protect our market from such an inflow of capital. This isn't trying to hurt anyone. Here, of course, there is a security dimension. If you go a little poetic, it can be said that the country is still the one for which Estonian men went to the war of freedom. It is the land that binds citizens to the state, actually the property in a wider sense, the real estate. We don't consider it natural to say that there's a goddamn thing that owns this land or who owns it. We wish the masters were us. We believe that such a reasonable limit is not prohibited, but we simply set a whole range of restrictions, just to help Estonians to have a master and not make our real estate worthless. As far as the other half of the question is concerned, I actually did not quite understand what the question was. The improvement in productivity and profitability is, of course, in waves. I'm sure you're aware that this year will be very difficult for farmers again, but it's more due to the weather. The fact that Estonian farms are very effective is a well-known and well-known fact and is excellent. Nevertheless, they are much less capitalised than farms in Western European countries. They are already unable to compete with international investment funds in terms of the price of the land.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U76	Jürgen Ligi, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U77	Thank you. I didn't say I didn't want to buy. I was based on the market economy principle, arguing that there are no good price providers. The seller always wants the price to be as high as possible, and the land is basically Estonian or Estonian citizens as you wish. With this change you will, figuratively speaking, open the market gates in the morning, but the buyers will not be allowed in, let everyone trade and be poor in the same way. Don't you ever have such weather-seeking doubts? Somehow they call you the right-wing party. When you restrict the market to regulation, does this 'right side' sound in your ears as a word of incrimination or are you somehow trying to analyze your actions from this view to be more of a right side?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U78	Thank you. Yeah, we're on the right, but not liberal. We are very basically right-wing, but not liberal right-wing. I don't see any illogicality here. There are, as I said before, 1.3 million people on the market who can trade. The fact that we do not want to put another 6 or 7 billion on this market is not, in our view, a sign of any kind of communist desire. It's a basic understanding that there's enough of this market for us to get here and the earth to move around in the circle of people that it should be moving between, that is, the circle of people here. It's not the left-hand side, it's a very common thing. If someone comes to tell me that Estonia, or especially the agricultural sector, has not already been regulated up to its eyes, I am sorry, but this is simply not true. Everything that concerns agricultural production is terribly regulated, terribly regulated, overwhelmly regulated under fertile conditions in the European Union. So if you put a language requirement there, no one will even notice it on the 200,000 pages of this regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U79	Jaanus Marrand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U80	Thank you! Dear waitress, I'm glad you decided to do some land or food here. I think first, by the way, that food should be regulated so that we know what we are eating. Speaking of land, you touch a sacred thing for every Estonian, but as your party always does, there is a small point: you are trying to be just popular, but you are not actually offering solutions, let us be honest. First of all, you're saying aliens own 5%. In fact, of course, this percentage is significantly higher. Secondly, you are producing Latvia here, for example. In Latvia, foreigners have considerably more land in their hands than in Estonia, despite these regulations. The question now is that it is possible to buy a company in Estonia if you buy shares in a company, etc. Actually, you're not gonna change anything with this bill. It's just a draft request for popularity. How do you solve the problem of buying a company's shares if it also gives you land?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U81	Thank you. It is very good that you have given this example in Latvia, and it is very good that you do not believe in the data of the Land Administration either, but that you think it is worse. The purpose of the draft is not to reach where Latvia is. It should, of course, be pointed out that both Latvia and Estonia (especially Latvia naturally) are "the main contingent of foreigners" connected with Russian capital and Russians. This is the security aspect I drew attention to. If this bill doesn't change anything, then you will certainly vote in favour, but I say it will. Perhaps you don't understand it, but it's probably not understood by the people on the left, but any regulation that makes it difficult to enter the market actually reduces interest in the goods. At one point, there are fewer of those interested. But if it really turns out that legal persons registered in Estonia will be used for the purchase of land, then it is also possible to impose a restriction here. If you are concerned about the draft, you know that there is already this way of doing it: the owner of the legal person must come and justify his application for land purchase in Estonian. This rule can be extended so that it applies to everyone, it is not only necessary to look at legal persons who are not registered in Estonia, but it can be freely made valid for all legal persons at all. It should not be difficult for any Estonian forest company to come and justify its wish to buy forests, for example. It is difficult only for those who, somewhere far away, want to buy up the land here, whether for the purpose of placement, sale or any other purpose. I think this is an important direction of movement. We do not want us to reach a situation where a quarter or a third or more of Estonia's land belongs to people who have nothing to do with Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U82	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U83	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'd like to ask for your answer. When you prepared this draft, you should have statistical data, how much of Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu, Viljandi, Valga and even our Estonia currently belongs to foreigners or how much of the land owned by foreigners who rent the land to the local people. Can you give any examples numerically, percentagely or relatively?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U84	Thank you. There is not much land in Tallinn and Pärnu, it is still located outside the cities. But the figures that the Earth Authority has taken out and given us are like this. The land owned by foreign persons is 213000 hectares, i.e. 5,6%, and 8.5% of the land owned by private persons. This percentage has increased in the last five years. The 2011 statistics show that this percentage was 7,1 and that the land-for-profit land owned by foreign persons was 4,7%. Growth has been between 1% and 1.5% in the last five years and at least according to the Earth Administration estimates it will be less than 10%, but it will grow all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U85	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U86	Thank you. I still have to go back to my last question. You referred to the freedom fighters who went to war for our country. It must be acknowledged that they went first and foremost to fight against the reds and against this system, which takes the wealth of work away from the people. The fact that foreigners have started to participate to a certain extent in land and real estate transactions has increased all our wealth because if we own property, the value of this asset has therefore increased. Your logic, which you yourself admit, may mean that the value of this property will fall. In the apartment market, this would mean that because we are not letting foreigners sell apartments and real estate at all, our own real estate will start to decline and we will not have the opportunity to make an alternative investment. Have you thought this through? Do you know that, based on statistics, structurally in Estonia, the problem is that small Estonian owners are unable to buy land; large and already well-capitalised Estonian owners are able to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U87	Thank you. Yeah, we've thought this through very well. If the price of real estate falls, it will be easier for young families to buy their own home. Very simple, very simple. We wouldn't mind if the property price went down. The people who now have large bank debts will, of course, scream against this. But we're gonna have to think a little bit longer. The main obstacle to having children is the lack of a home and the fact that it is not possible for young families to acquire real estate because the property has become too expensive because Finns or English people or anyone who buys real estate in Estonia. So we've thought this through very well. And I disagree. I say that Estonian men went to war in the War of Independence because they were allowed land. My own great-grandfather got a farmhouse. Of course, there was a fight against the red terror, but the country was a very specific motivator. We do not agree in principle with the view that money does not have a homeland. Money has a homeland. The owner also has a homeland, and if he has nothing else, he has a globalistic understanding of world affairs. We do not want to support this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U88	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U89	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I fully understand your objective, what you want to achieve with this bill. But here's the question. Earth really is a final resource, and it doesn't come from anywhere, and on the shores of the sea in some places maybe a little more. How do you feel about foreigners who have already bought land and forest here? As you said, these statistics are not quite accurate. Will they have any chance of selling back this land at any cost, or how? Just out of pure curiosity.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U90	Thank you. The draft does not regulate it in any other way than that, if they ever wish to sell in the future, the circle of people to whom they can sell is limited to the conditions set out in this draft. No forced sale is foreseen in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U91	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U92	Honourable waitress! Some of the previous questions were, of course, mildly infantile or simply stupid, but we forgive the Riigikogu as a form of society. It wasn't about the last questioner, I'm sorry if you misunderstood! I meant that Latvia, for example, was mentioned, saying that the situation there is several times worse, and that the actual number of foreigners with forest or arable land is greater than official statistics show it, and then the question arises as to why we are dealing with it here. As a waitress, do you think it's right to be more forward-looking than any colleague in this room who lives only today and only starts solving the problem when it's on our yard? Is it perhaps more reasonable to take the example of the Latvians and not to allow it to develop so far that in 20 years' time, for example, we should not begin to deal with the same bill here, how much more of the land we own has moved into the hands of foreigners?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U93	Thank you. I fully agree that if we now see a trend and the problem is not massive, it does not mean that we could simply reject this issue by hand. We absolutely must pay attention and monitor what is happening with our neighbours and still stand up for our people, so that the people of Estonia can buy land and forests. This means that we do not just have to consider it positive when prices are rising all the time. There are those who benefit if price growth stops or even turns into a fall in some cases. We do not need to wait for the problem to arise so that we can start to spread our hands and say that there is nothing left to do now. This is the time when something can be done. This is not some radical overdrive that we are offering here. We simply offer, point 1, that people who want to buy land must speak Estonian, and, point 2, must deal with or have been involved in agricultural production or forestry in the past, or must have an education in this field. These are simple demands used by several countries, they work and they are good for us as a society. I don't really understand this eye-spinning thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U94	Jaanus Marrand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U95	Thank you! I very much welcome the previous questioner, who, by analogy with my question, presented this Latvian example in his question. He was a two-year-old boy when I started dealing with the land: decision-making in the parish council, surveying with a sickle, renting and taking land, selling and buying land. It all touched thousands of hectares. In this very hall, I defended a similar bill in 1999 as the Minister of Agriculture. We also put into practice some sort of diluted version of this bill. My question wasn't that, my question was something else. You can put language skills and other seeming and beautiful things in there, but in fact, if a money man has a lot of money from a third country, he will buy a company whose previous owner has shown very nicely that he knows Estonian and has been able to buy thousands of hectares of land, for example. The real solution is that you should ban the purchase of land by legal persons at all. Are you ready for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U96	Thank you. Agreed. That's one way to do it. You can put it in this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U97	Tiit Terik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U98	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I understand that your aim is to enable Estonian citizens only to buy land. This raises the question of language skills. If a handsome young gentleman from Pakistan or China has learned a few sentences, about wanting to buy a forest, do you think it would be enough for him to get a lousy piece of land in Alutaguse?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U99	Thank you. A few sentences aren't enough. He or she must justify his or her desire to buy the land or give a certificate that he or she knows the Estonian language at level B1. A few sentences aren't enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U100	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U101	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! There is an interesting point in your proposed draft that the buyer of the land must have the relevant knowledge or skills in the field of agriculture or/and forestry. Please tell us what this check is, whether it is a test or a test, who assesses it and how it is assessed, how the objectivity of this assessment is ensured, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U102	Thank you. It refers to education in the relevant field, either a diploma from a rural university or an equivalent diploma from another country.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U103	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm going to specify my benchmate's question. The educational requirement is a separate point, and then it is a separate one that still needs to be owned. Who controls it and how is it controlled? I'm also asking about the final point of the bill. Here, a governor has been introduced, who has been given many responsibilities. The mayors, as we know, are disappearing. Who, then, could take up these responsibilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U105	Thank you. I'll start with the mayor. As I said in my introductory presentation, we have been doing this bill for so long that in the meantime, the position of governor of the country has disappeared. This place needs to be changed in the bill. As foreseen in the administrative reform, these obligations move to the municipality. Sorry, yeah, I messed up. Indeed, the education point and this skill point are separate. These skills refer precisely to previous activities in this area. It is possible to prove whether you have been a farmer or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U106	The Dark One.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U107	Thank you. I was a little confused about you talking so nicely about how a young family has to be allowed to buy land, but then you want him to have some kind of diploma that he's plowed before the field. That sounds suspicious. Maybe this young family who wants to buy a home hasn't plowed a field before. Second thing, I see they're teasing you with that language skills. Perhaps we would approach more creatively, otherwise it is that some of the dialects speak, and then after the lawyer has to explain how well he spoke, or take the sworn interpreter and then seize and begin to say that he did not speak Estonian. Why don't we put something creative, beautiful, symbolic in here? Could it not be proposed that he should be able to sing the Estonian anthem without fault, showing respect for this country and all other skills as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U108	Thank you. I don't understand anyone bullying, we're having a parliamentary debate here. In the case of the anthem, exactly what was pointed out by my colleague, Terik, was that it could be learned with integrity and that there was nothing more to do or know how to do. However, I would point out that these are indeed requirements that apply to everyone. The whole point of this draft is that, as the European Union treaties do not discriminate against persons from other countries, these requirements apply both to people here and to those who do not live here. This requirement is the same oral argument that people have to deal with. We will now leave room for the municipal officials who make this decision to understand whether someone is talking to Võru dialect or Saare ö, or whether he is actually coming from abroad, but has learned the written language from the works of Tammsaare. I don't think all things need to be adjusted to the level of detail. The point is clear for us and for those who have to control it. Young family, sorry, yes. I feel like a good colleague put everything together. We talked theoretically about the market and the price on the market. It is always a pleasure for those who already have property, when the price is constantly increasing, but those who do not yet have property will be pleased if the price stays low or gets cheaper. This thing has two ends. We, and in many other European countries, have support for young farmers starting, investment grants and operating grants. So we are also sustainable with taxpayers' money. If someone wants to start out as a farmer and this can be done a little more favourably, then we all win.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U109	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U110	Thank you. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that buying-in countries by hostile foreign citizens poses a security risk to the Republic of Estonia. This security risk is not just Estonia's problem. In Finland, too, the same issue has come out very acutely that foreign or third-country nationals or, let us say, directly, Russian citizens have massively bought land and real estate around strategically important objects, communication centres, military units, etc. This issue is also under discussion in this House and is intended to prohibit this possibility. A perfectly direct parallel can be drawn with Estonia. How can it be explained that this aspect is unfortunately not noticed among the members of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U111	Thank you. First of all, the security aspect. I have pointed out at least twice that this is not irrelevant to the whole issue. Finland is, in my opinion, a very good example. This once again confirms what I have said here several times that the European Union treaties do not prevent or prohibit us from doing such restrictions. However, these restrictions can be made on a number of bases, i.e. security can also be a separate justification. As far as this draft is concerned, there is no real distinction between European Union citizens and third-country nationals. They are all subject to the same requirements. I don't see it going too far or too crispy. It's still just creating a couple of extra thresholds to suppress the movement of property to aliens. If it turns out, as Mr Marandi suspects, that this is insufficient, then we can come back to it and consider further thresholds. But the security aspect is important, at least as important as the economic aspect.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U112	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U113	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I am amazed at this discussion in this Chamber. We are representatives of the Estonian people and must stand up for the interests of the Estonian people. I would recommend that everyone read an article by Ivan Makarov a few days ago, in which he clearly says that he is amazed by the surrender of the Estonians and the lack of self-respect. I see this self-respecting submissiveness in this hall. It's a line. Now the question of who's in control. The free parties raised that question. Is it conceivable that this control mechanism can be imposed on notaries?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U114	Thank you. Yeah, that's one way. The Notaries are doing some of these controls right now, yes, not in this key. Notaries make sure there are no loads, double-owners, or so on. Indeed, it is possible that, apart from being the responsibility of the Land Board or the municipality, it could also be the task of notaries. This may be further specified in the course of the further examination of the draft. As far as I am concerned, some issues can also be resolved by a ministerial decree. But I completely agree that no one in this Chamber has received a mandate from anywhere other than Estonia; no one has received it from Russia, China or some investment fund registered in London. This means that it is the responsibility of every last member of the population to stand up for the interests of their electorate, the interests of the Estonian people and the interests of Estonian entrepreneurs, and not to worry about how the other 7 billion people in the world can cope.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U115	Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U116	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Despite all the respect for you, here today it really seems that Estonia is buying state property and land for random, purposeless and speculative purposes. Yet this is not the case. By introducing the requirement of skills and knowledge, you set a higher threshold for all acquirers of immovable property. Estonia is currently subject to very strict regulations according to the law, which nevertheless select a real buyer. Indeed, even now a buyer from a third country has to submit an action plan to buy land. He must prove that he has the means to cultivate the land. He has to prove that he has financial resources to cultivate the land. Why are you creating such an image, as is currently the case in Estonia, as if it were completely uncontrollable to sell land to persons from third countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U117	Thank you. I'm sorry, I didn't create a picture like that. On the contrary, I have emphasised that there is a clear trend that both land in the field of income and forest land go to the property of companies and foreign natural persons located outside Estonia. If this increase is about 1.5% in five years, it will be 15% in ten years, and after 20 years, a quarter or a third of Estonia's property will be transferred to foreigners. We do not want to see this, we recognise that the restrictions that are currently inadequate, and we want to impose additional restrictions. These additional restrictions are perfectly reasonable; they are essentially copied from the restrictions of other European countries. I join in the amazement of my groupmates; I do not understand how this can cause so much opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U118	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U119	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Actually, there's another problem with the land. We have built very productive and valuable agricultural land full of houses, and this is a real problem in Estonia. Today, many farmers plow up the edge of the swamp, even though this land does not bear fruit. This is what we have discussed in the Committee on Rural Affairs. My question is as follows. After all, with these restrictions on the sale of land to foreigners, you go against the provisions of the Treaty on European Union concerning the free movement of goods and services. That's one. Second of all, it was about the country elders. We have recently adopted a law here that all these obligations will be transferred to the local government. So, in the future, what you said in the form of the so-called Latvian example is precisely the task of the local authorities, they can deal with and control these matters. Of course, there will also be an increase in the administrative burden and the need for financial resources. So, in a sense, there is a so-called'small self-regulation'.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U120	Thank you. All I can say is that I suggest you be more attentive to the debate. I have repeatedly explained this aspect of the European Union and I have also explained the aspect of the municipality. This does not conflict with the European Union's Treaties, because many countries are using exactly the same measures. There are restrictions in Estonia today, as you have even said. As far as the administrative burden is concerned, I will say once again that creating all kinds of thresholds reduces an alien's desire to buy land in Estonia. Let me give you a simple example. We are always talking about the arrival of foreign investors in Estonia and what is preventing it from doing business, taxes and what still stands in the way. But if at one point the obstacles or the hustle that goes with one investment are simply unreasonable, the investor will go elsewhere. We all know that, we all understand that. If the cost of the transaction has been increased by some kind of fees or taxes, then interest will decrease and go elsewhere, we know that, that is how it is. This is the purpose of this draft: to create a situation where interest would be reduced, so that foreigners would have enough obstacles to purchase forest or land in Estonia, so that the desire would not be so much, and as a result these transactions would not be made and land and forest ownership would move within Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U121	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Before I give the opportunity to speak to Igor Gräzin, I want to say that you probably remember that about an hour and a half ago we talked a lot about chess, including what chess is. Doesn't it seem to you, ladies and gentlemen, that chess is a debate with other means? But there is also a difference: chess there are few chess pieces, but a million combinations, there are a million words in the debate, but given the composition of our hall, there are a total of about six combinations. Mr Igor Gräzin, please, you have the floor for the presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission discussed the matter twice: on 17 and 23 October. I think it would be the easiest thing for me to say right now that the Commission made a consensual proposal not to end this matter and the mole. Well, it's like it's been said here whether it makes sense to start reading the protocol. Probably not. That is why I may be talking about what we talked about so that it does not go into the protocol, and about what is not in the protocol, because what is said without the protocol is more important. What was the reason, either formally or essentially, for the rejection of this draft? That's a two-way reason. Firstly, despite its long development period, the draft contains very substantive technical errors. It has already been said about rowing here that technical non-technical, in short, I mean a technical error with substantive consequences. For example, the text of Section 4 (6) of the draft text coincides literally with the existing law, so it is not necessary. There is also a reference to paragraph 51, which in the current law simply does not exist. The term 'foreigner' in the legal language is a third-country national and it exists in the current law, for example, has been introduced. There is also a contradiction between the explanatory memorandum and the draft. This is reflected in the fact that the explanatory memorandum states that the purpose of the draft is to restrict the sale of land to foreigners within the meaning of the land reform, i.e. natural persons who are not Estonian citizens, and to prohibit the sale of land to nationals of third countries, that is the aim, but nothing is done in the draft itself for that purpose. There's a lot of mistakes here. As the text is short, even with full approval, the draft should still be rewritten from scratch to the end, because these references do not give us the clarity that has actually been desired. The most interesting story is that these technical errors have actually come out in this discussion, without references to paragraphs. Now, however, I am talking about the substance of the matter, which we are actually talking about, and which the Commission was discussing without a protocol. The problem is, first of all, that the land where food can be produced is either reduced in the world or the border of these countries is moving north. I mean, in southern Spain, Portugal, but especially in China, agricultural land, where food can be produced, is getting smaller and smaller. Secondly, the importance of agricultural production in Estonia becomes all the more important, because it is this movement that is taking place towards us. In other words, the golden age of Estonian agriculture is not over, but the golden age of Estonian agriculture will arrive in 10, 20 or 30 years' time, because there will be something in Estonia that is not in the world for a long time. Indeed, there will be problems, including with China. Countries in the south are interested in buying agricultural land and green areas for agricultural production. That's a problem. At present, this is not a major problem, it is called 5.6%, some of the data provided by the Land Administration is close to 6%. Land office, I think we should believe. That's not a big problem yet. But... Yes, please! [[Shout from the hall.]] No, if it's not a question, then...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U123	Mr. Gräzin, please continue! The procedural question will come a little later.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U124	Okay. Yeah. [[Shout from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U125	If the waitress agrees, Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U126	Absolutely, my friend Stalnukhin, always.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U127	Thank you, Mr President. In the meantime, there was such a sentence that we would rather talk about what the Commission discussed without the protocol, wouldn't we?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U128	Yes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U129	I'm here to discuss the specific draft law of the EKRE. If I want to know something about the changing climate or the Chinese agricultural policy, I will take the Internet and find it there. If Mr Gräzin is the rapporteur for the Commission, I think that he should, however, reflect the debate that was in the Commission rather than tell us what it means. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Õige!'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U130	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U131	Of course. However, I am quite sure that comments of this kind are more part of the round of questions and the round of negotiations. The rapporteur follows his own logic, which can be criticised as much as it takes. Please, Mr. Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U132	Okay. The words I have just spoken have the following witnesses: Aivar Kokk, Urmas Kruuse, Arno Sild, Heimar Lenk and Inara Luigas. Each of them can answer the question whether or not it was spoken of. I have, by the way, understood this way that the representative of the Commission must present the Commission's views and what was being said in the Commission, including what is not explicitly stated in the Protocol. A representative of the Commission is not required to read the minutes. That's the best you can do. It's on the computer. Oh, my God! Damn, they're characters! All right, let's go. I mean, the problem was due to two questions, one of which is not mentioned in the text of the law, but the draft is. These two problems were also highlighted by Martin Helme: the access of foreigners to land and the concentration that is taking place in our country itself. Both are mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, the law deals with only one of them, which suggests that the explanatory memorandum does not actually correspond to the text of the law in terms of its applications. A friend named Jürgen asked about the European Union whether the European Union would allow the turnover of agricultural land to be limited, etc. He assumed that the free movement of capital would not allow it. I'm saying it's okay. The Commission did not mention this by section, but I also looked up the section: the turnover of agricultural land may be limited in order to increase the size of land ownership, maintain agricultural communities, maintain the use of agricultural land by the owner, which is one of the traditional land use methods, maintain the permanent population and preserve the territory of the country in areas of military importance. These restrictions are allowed. All I have to do is repeat that is now in the protocol, Stalnukhin, posmotri, zdes zapisano, that concentration is a separate problem, it is a domestic problem, and in this sense the explanatory memorandum and these things do not match. It was about the host, it was also about what it means to be the host, whether being the host simply means technically property, whether it is a way of life, whether it is agricultural production and for what it is done. The Commission decided to come back to this issue. That's about it. So these substantive reasons are as follows: the text and the explanatory memorandum on the points I was talking about do not coincide, and then the technical side, that the paragraphs, references and terminology do not match, so these three pages do not form a whole that the great hall of the Riigikogu can accept. On the basis of these two points, we have taken a decision, which I have already said: it is a consensual proposal not to adopt, while acknowledging that it is still a serious issue that makes sense to talk about in the future, but in the Committee on Rural Affairs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U133	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U134	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good waitress, good colleague! There are three nuances to my question. One thing is that I suppose everyone is aware that every bill can be corrected in the course of the proceedings. Indeed, there are some technical or verbal errors that I have admitted to this in my presentation, which should be changed in the course of the procedure. Doesn't the Commission see that? The other thing is that you personally, Gräzin, Igor Gräzin, do you think you should or shouldn't restrict the sale? Thirdly, did the Commission, when discussing and thinking that the subject had to be dealt with, come close to thinking that it would come up with a draft at some point?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U135	All right, here we go. First of all, technical mistakes. If one paragraph just doesn't fit in with the other, it's fixable. But, unfortunately, there are substantive errors here, with a substance mismatch. The substance mismatch between the explanatory memorandum and the main text is precisely the point that aims to limit the opportunities of foreigners in the future or to combat small and medium-sized farms and concentration. Since the explanatory statement as a whole... Oh, my God, how much of this whole thing is there? One page and then one page of it. Since they do not match, it was not an option to patch up these two pages in the Commission. Should I limit it? Yeah, sure. I would just add that, for the time being, at least to me personally, these limits are sufficient in the current situation. This is confirmed by the fact that property held by foreigners and persons from third countries, by legal persons, is still relatively small and modest. But I totally agree with you that just because it's small right now doesn't mean there's no danger that it won't be big in 20 years. I totally agree with you in this sense that fighting a fire starts after the fire marshal, who's gonna see if the wires are okay, it's not gonna happen when the fire's off. Thirdly, I dare not say this on behalf of anyone else, any Member of the Commission, but Artur Talvik is not here. He's actually one of the long-standing land grabbing regulation people. That was just the subject. So I guess we'll have to come back to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U136	No further questions. Thank you, Igor Gräzin! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U137	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Such an interesting debate is rarely heard in this hall. While there was a small debate on freedom fighters here, I assumed that we were going to go up until the St. George's Night Uprising, Mr Jürgen Ligi said that what you are now, it will certainly come to the battle of the Ümera, but we were both wrong. I find this bill extremely sympathetic. I will prove this by putting it in a separate folder, where there is already the Gender Equality Act, which regulates the local elections in Tallinn, and, for example, the Land Tax Exemption Act, which, in its time, has caused a huge amount of noise. But let's get to the point. There was a lot of talk about the relationship between land purchase and Estonian language. That would be the first thing I would draw your attention to. Well, it's kind of a taste thing, isn't it? Article 41 Subjects of a transaction: 'Agricultural and forestry land can be acquired by the following legitimate subjects... ' If the following points use singularity, e.g. an Estonian citizen, a citizen of Estonia or another European Economic Area Contracting State, a legal person (here is singularity!), the subject of the transaction, then that means that one condition is sufficient, then it is one particular condition. If a plural is used, it is both understandable. Then it can be understood that there is a single condition, and it can be understood that they apply to several. Like I said, it's a taste thing. There's a misprint at the next point, too much comma, all right. But on page two, it gets a little more interesting. There are words like 'knowing' and'skill'. I wasn't sure about myself in the meantime asking how they would write the plural of these words, and people called me two forms. This debate was dealt with by colleagues from the Free Party who said that both forms were possible. Look at this page. On the first line, you will see a short form of 'knowledge or skill', if you look a little down to point 4 (2), you will see the expression 'knowledge or skill'. There are two different uniforms three centimeters from each other. My students at school did these things. If they didn't know exactly which form was correct, then in one place you wrote it like that and in another place you had the hope that if there are fifty-fifty, then you definitely can't get two. That's even funnier. Colleagues, there was a lot of talk about Estonian. Read paragraph 4 and do so carefully. It says here: 'For the acquisition of agricultural and forestry land by a legal foreigner... " Keep reading, point 2 says: '... which is the sole owner or majority shareholder of the institution or undertaking must hold... " Read again: A foreigner must own. Is that Estonian? Or did Ivan Makarov write you this bill? That was for point 2. Now for point 4: '... an alien who is a legal person must have been engaged in... " Read and see! Do you think it's Estonian? Now, I'm going to go to the positive thing. I actually like this bill because, how to say it, our language policy is stupid enough, but this bill puts a bomb under it. Until now, there has been a clear rule about who controls the proficiency of the Estonian language. I don't like the Language Inspectorate at all, it's a Language Inquisition, not an Inspection. That's my personal opinion. But I recognise this right to check in accordance with the law, and the basis for the examination is a document issued by an examination committee. We are offered the option of either giving this witness to the mayor or who he is or proving that you can speak. As soon as we adopt this law, the Chancellor of Justice of the remote will come here, who says that, dear people, you now have a constitutional conflict, some people must definitely have this language certificate according to the law, and then there will be a group of people who must either have a language certificate or they may start chatting right there on the ground. The mayor, or whoever controls it, will now become a language examiner, how differently. He determines whether they speak well enough or not. Believe me, category B1 is high enough. I have other comments. This person has a duty to have an education in agriculture and forest and must also have the relevant knowledge and skills. Yeah, especially when that person comes from Malaysia, right? He's been raising coconuts all his life, and he can tell you as much about coconut butter production as he wants. What's the use? Who's gonna find out if he really did forestry in Malaysia or not? It's a fantastic thing. I already said I really liked this bill, I'm sure I'll leave it in my archive, I won't throw it away. This reminds us of the political aspect of this matter of the anecdote monkey. The monkey was sitting on the river and shaking the banana in the water. A floating crocodile asked what he was doing. 'Give me ten euros, then I'll tell you,' answered the monkey. Crocodile gave and the monkey said, "Well, I'll wash the banana. '''What the fuck are you talking about,' said the crocodile and swam on, shouting too. And the monkey said, "Oh, yeah, I'm stupid, but that's how I get my $10/20 every day. " When things are done in this bill, they are discussed with experts. When these things are written down, they will be taken very seriously. If you speak a language, then at least in the text of the draft law, the length of which is one page with copies, there should be no grammatical errors. So I like this bill. But the Chairman of the Group told me that we do not support it; we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U138	On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U139	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, These restrictions have been discussed here for decades; this is not the first time. There was also a hint from this left-hand side how these restrictions can always be passed through legal entities, shadows, all sorts of dirty schemes that only make things worse. But that the sale of land is an emotional subject, it's probably true, and emotional things are worth discussing. But what's missing right now? There was a complete lack of problem definition, it was not clear what problems we were dealing with exactly, what is the situation that we need to correct, what are these realised risks and the likely future scenarios that we should be fighting here. I would have liked to hear the statistics first. I do not know what was done in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at all. We didn't really find out anything about it. We would have liked to have learned from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, not from the authors of the draft, about the real possibilities of siege in the European Union. I wouldn't take the word of the authors here as gold. I would have liked to have seen the analysis. I do not think well that this is allowed in the European Union, as is said here. The Commission could have been that judge. I would also have liked to know these individual cases of how our land buyers have suddenly started to behave badly. Where does this generalisation come from to start putting these obstacles on foreigners? Nevertheless, I (probably I would say this even if all these conditions had been met) say that the patriot should be based on trust in the landowner and certain general rules. By patriotic, I mean people with a white conscience. A person with a red conscience should act exactly as the EKRE now does, that we expropriate, ban, order, and punish. It is also popular in the current government, but since the EKRE returns to the arguments of the People's Union, by turning a little blue-black-white on top, it is actually disappointing because in the right-wing niche, the right-wing wing has a very lonely feeling, there is no one to cooperate with, who can understand the functioning of the market, the market economy, the freedoms, the rights that should be guaranteed to local landowners. Historic back views here were emotional. We also heard an emotional statement that the war on freedom took place as if it were because of the land, and it was said from the mouth that a war was fought against the red terror. I say it was because of a number of things, but first and foremost, there was a war against the red plague that attacked us and from which we rescued ourselves. After all, this red plague is that people are being taken away from property, being a host is being underestimated, equality is being absolutized, poverty is being idealized, and property is being restricted. If we imagine that we somehow support each other by selling land, it's an illusion. The Estonian as owner or citizen as owner, the way the authors want, is still the more owner the more he has theoretical sales opportunities. The value of the earth itself is one of the sources of prosperity. So far there's been freedom, and now all of a sudden we're gonna take it off and hit the price of the land. So who's the winner, Estonian, Russian or Cameronian, who's the winner? We are fighting against the market economy, and we are saying that in the war on freedom there was a war against such restrictions! That was not the case, in the War of Independence there was war on freedoms, in the War of Independence there was a war on property and against the view of the red weather, terror was only a means of this view of the weather. But above all, yes, I would like respect for freedoms and property to prevail on the right wing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U140	Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U141	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Glad to see so many of you in the hall. I guess the subject gets excited. The questions and the discussion also reveal that this topic is exciting. Unfortunately, I have to say about the previous speaker that his knowledge is very incomplete, especially those concerning history. It might be known that in the first Riigikogu, the absolute majority belonged to the red parties, so that they did not fight so much against the red ones, but fought precisely for Estonian masters to be Estonians, not for the camerons. Not the camerons, Jürgen! They were fighting to get land because the lack of land was colossal. Everyone wanted a farm. My father wanted a farm, went to war and got a farm. So you shouldn't be talking about fighting against the Reds here. There was also war against the Reds, but there was war against the Landesvere, which was not red. Why the war? Because the reds would have taken the land, and the Landesmerians would have taken the land. [[Interjection.]] There you go! We're not taking anything away from anyone. Read, understand, think and think like that, you know what you mean! [[The excitement in the hall.]] We want to put in place regulations that give the right to be masters in Estonia to the citizens here and, above all, to our fellow nationalists. That is the basic content of this draft. No one's being taken away. If anyone here says he's very lonely in the right-hand niche, then I can say that this hall is composed of liberals, two thirds are liberals here. There's no reason to feel lonely, absolutely not. So these lines are inconsiderate, they are, let's say, inappropriate, if you don't use some harsher words. Now I come back to the subject as such. The subject is very serious. As rapporteur for the Commission, Igor Gräzin pointed out that it was also discussed that clean water would become more scarce in the world and the area of arable land would decrease every day. I may be wrong, but I recently learned that the area of cultivated land is about the size of Tallinn. This means that one day Estonia will be the place where there is free land, water and the opportunity to grow food. The price of food is getting more expensive. Today, tonnes of ready-to-eat food are being discarded in Europe and elsewhere in the developed world. But I heard on the news yesterday that there are one and a half million people in Sudan starving to death. This means that there is not really enough food, not enough food in many regions of the world. And now, economic and right-wing thinking, respectable! Economic and right-wing thinking says that we need to invest in making sure that in the future we are the ones who do not have to beg for food from others, but who can sell it to others, maybe even provide humanitarian aid, also possible, we must have the opportunity to do so. I completely agree with Mr Kruus, and with Mr Marrand, too, it is very rare that I agree with the social economy, that our agriculture is good and that our farms have become very effective under the current circumstances. We must not give up these positions. Language is very important here, by the way. If I go to farmers with large workshops in my village and want to have something welded or repaired, I want to speak in Estonian, not Swahili, I don't want to deal with the camerons. I want to deal with Jüri and Jaani in Estonian. Please add!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U142	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U143	It's important. It is also important that our agriculture and forestry are developed by people who have qualifications and interest in this area. I am a landowner, I do not have much land, 23 to 24 hectares, I am not a targeted user of this land in the sense that I am not developing either agriculture or forestry there. I've found the people, the local Georges and the Jaans, who use this land and deserve it. I'm not sure if I could get a deal with any Mohammeds or Ahmeds the way I can with the Jüri and the Jaans. I'm not so sure about that. So these are not just bullshit issues, as the honourable MP who entered the Chamber mentioned in the previous speech, that he would put this draft between the rare drafts folder. These are, in fact, very important issues of cumulative importance. There's no point in making fun of them, there's no point in ironing them. All these shortcomings, which were brought to the attention of the Commission rapporteur, can be addressed. This is the subject of discussion and improvements to be made. If you don't want to, of course, you don't talk or you just talk, like a bull. If they don't want to make improvements, of course they won't. But in fact, we have to do it and we have to move on to it. And also, what amazes me and what's astonished me not only today, but at all. It is such an outstanding complacency, which is too often and too much in this Chamber. The unwillingness to fight, the unwillingness to stand up for Estonia, the people of Estonia. Let everything go liberally, sell it, let them come, let them take it, let them invest! Well, what do we care, we're sitting here on a good paycheck, at least a year and a half more, so let's see what happens next. We got to fight, guys! We have received a mandate from the people for this, not for spinning thumbs and ironing each other out here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U144	Jaanus Marrand on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U145	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Coming up to the previous speaker, I have to admit that exactly one minute of what he said was almost in agreement with him. But then it went on to do the bullshit, just like he said about the other reports. The themes of the earth are indeed those that fuel everyone's passion, that is absolutely clear. Indeed, the war of freedom was won because land was promised, and that is true. But let's see what happened with these restrictions in the past. I myself have defended such a bill, I think the year could have been 1999 or 2000 in this hall. It has been 20 years and it was a time of negotiation with the European Union. At the time, all possible restrictions in the European Union were quite precisely investigated. Indeed, Denmark has such a restriction, which was already imposed before its accession to the European Union, that the sale of land is subject to the so-called professional skill requirement. I still have this bill somewhere right now. When I was Minister for Agriculture, around Christmas 2002, we actually passed a law like this here, with almost the same restriction. I was here defending this bill. It was about the need to ask for a permit when it was economically meaningful agricultural land, which was more than 20 hectares, if I remember correctly. There was one more question at the time. At that time it was the Danish Presidency, and during the accession negotiations, Estonia, like all the participants, received a transitional period, I think it was seven years, if I remember correctly what was involved in the purchase of land and affected the citizens of the European Union. There is quite a few of this drafts left today, which concerns this land under the Narva Summers, which Mr Stalnukhin has talked about for a very long time. However, if we are now talking about real restraint, it must be said that this law did not severely restrict anything, and this bill here is even less restrictive. Basically, he doesn't limit anything. It's done for reasons of popularity, to show that we're blue black and white and we're fighting. This fight process is important. These speeches and speeches here, which were just demonstrated by the previous speaker with true actorism, are important. The essence of the matter is that we can impose all kinds of language and other restrictions, but as long as legal persons are able to buy the land, it is not possible to restrict the sale of the land in essence for that long. It's the truth. The sale of the land to legal persons was possible, so far my parliamentary memory could not be reached since 1995 or it was 1996. I understand these circumstances. I have worked in the Committee on Rural Affairs for quite a long time since 1999, I have been its chairman and vice-chairman, and I know that we have been working there on a proposal to amend the Land Reform Act, and all of which have been... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U146	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U147	After all, the point of all these amendments has actually been to bring together, as far as possible, the land user and land owner, so that they are relatively the same thing. This was probably also the reason why legal entities were allowed to purchase land in 1995 and 1996. You can control language and everything, but it is precisely because the land has moved into the hands of other owners that they have bought legal persons. I know this area. I don't read the data from the Earth Board here. Think of the Piibe highway, start there from Aravete, there you will arrive in Roosna-Alliku, from there to Peetri, from there to Koig, Adavere, and finally to Torma at Peipsi, all these lands belong to one foreign owner. This is the largest entrepreneur who, true, is a citizen of the European Union, an Austrian entrepreneur. At the same time, Estonian entrepreneurs also own quite large units. The company that speaks here also has quite a few hectares of land. But now we come to the main issue. The question is not whether it is possible to prohibit, the question is why to sell, why not sell. In fact, it is the economics of ABC that counts, that there are conditions for them to benefit from and benefit from their activities. If they don't see it, they tend to sell their land, that's a fact. If you just try to change it with refusals and orders, it just doesn't work out. I have a bit of doubt that in 2017, someone could come up with the idea that we are banning legal persons from buying land at all. Our legal practice has soon been different for 25 years, and it would probably not go away in any way. I don't believe it, and I probably don't believe it, either. This is a multi-layered issue. On the one hand, there has been talk of fear of foreigners, on the other, of whether land concentration in the hands of certain owners is good or bad. Of course, it's not good on emotional soil. I, too, would like to have a large number of owners in Estonia, a wide range of owners and owners to grow their property, use it for themselves and their families, etc. to earn a living. Unfortunately, it has gone differently, the mouth is set aside, the economic conditions have been different. That's exactly how our lives have evolved. It can't be reversed. Emotionally, this bill certainly serves its purpose to show the public how we fight and how we act, but there is no real result here. If we are actually bringing in naiveties and childishities, to which Mr Stalnukhin pointed out well here, then indeed, for the knowledge of the Estonian language, you can say to the representatives of the EKRE: sit down, two. This bill cannot, yes, be supported simply because it is popular. It has no real impact and is not feasible in this form. If we were to come up with a real understanding of the subject, we could discuss whether, where, and how, land sales could be restricted or even needed to be restricted. This bill does not fulfil this objective. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U148	Mr Andres Ammas on behalf of the Free Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U149	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! In the opinion of the Group of the Free Party, it is right to put this issue on the table and colleagues from the EKRE should be congratulated for it. One of the most important sentences of today's very emotional debate from the Commission's rapporteur could have been overlooked in the whole noise. The rapporteur for the Commission also said, when I understood him correctly, that the Commission felt that the debate on this subject had to be continued. We are critical of the quality of the bill. There is always a place of decision as to whether it is possible to improve one draft, which is likely to have failed in the best way for some of our incomprehensible reasons, or whether it should be developed again. It seems to us that improving this draft to quality is very difficult and it would be more appropriate to start over. But I really urge the Members of the Commission that this said by Igor Gräzin on this board would not have been just a word of speech, but that the Committee on Rural Affairs would really continue to deal with this issue. We consider it important and important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-07_U150	There's no more calls. The proposal of the Committee on Rural Affairs is to reject the draft 486 at first reading. This proposal needs to be voted on. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Rural Affairs to reject the draft law amending the law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, 486 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal and 9 against, with no abstentions. Draft 486 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 12.41 p.m.
