ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Despite all the great achievements of the weekend, we must start the Monday session of the fifth working week of the VI plenary session. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U2	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Inquiries are one of the main options of parliamentary scrutiny, especially for the opposition. Unfortunately, the Board of the Riigikogu has recently started asking questions about how I say, censoring them on the basis of the law, or sending them back, when some conclusions and thought developments in the inquiry are presented in a slightly more liberal fictional form. I understand that last week, when I was not in this hall, the President of Eesti Pank made such a comment that we do not have to interview the Governor of Eesti Pank here. I am absolutely convinced that the members of the Riigikogu have the inalienable right, especially during the budgetary process, to invite the President of Eesti Pank to the Riigikogu Hall and to ask questions to him. However, if you want us to be more clearly justified, according to Article 4 of the Eesti Pank Act, Eesti Pank will advise the government on economic policy issues and the Government of the Republic will not make important economic policy decisions without listening to the position of Eesti Pank. This is certainly an important economic policy decision, which is why we want to know how this advice has been given in the event of a deficit in the state budget being drawn up or at the time. Has this advice been taken and in what form has Eesti Pank given it? We also have similar questions about the main causes of current economic growth, the macro-economic situation and how the government should behave in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U3	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U4	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu, I present the draft amendment to the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia'. It consists of the appointment of two former members of the delegation, Olga Ivanova and Aivar Koka, instead of Urve Tiidus and Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U5	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, During a political career, there may be moments when political responsibility needs to be taken. Today is my moment. I will inform you of your resignation as Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. I sincerely thank all of you from very different political parties, many people whom I personally do not know who have supported me in these difficult moments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U7	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U8	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Seven members of the Free Party shall submit an inquiry to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. The title of the inquiry is 'The digital policy of the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union on the ignorance of Internet freedom'. Estonia, as the Presidency of the European Union, has also called itself the digital Presidency, and the programme of the Presidency has a number of important issues in the digital field, such as the free movement of data, e-commerce and e-governance. But there is no mention of Internet freedom among these issues at all. While you closely followed events in Catalonia, many forums for public debate, several Internet sites that express political views and their use were blocked there too. It was the central government. Estonia, as President-in-Office, did not speak at all on this issue. Our questionnaire is longer, it speaks about freedom of the Internet and also about digitalisation in Estonia in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U9	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U10	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I have the honour to address an inquiry to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. This is about the harassment of Taavi Kõivas during the visit of the Enterprise Estonia delegation. Our questions concern EAS. I'll read them out briefly, not in full. Firstly, on what basis are the principles used to draw up lists of members of the official delegations of the EAS? Who is responsible for the smooth and correct functioning of these visits? How is there a liability for the unreasonable spending of taxpayers' money? How will the benefits of such visits be assessed? How do you feel about the statement by EAS that they will continue to be prepared to include Taavi Rõivas, who acted unworthyly and damaged Estonia's reputation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U11	Honourable Riigikogu! I have adopted one bill and three inquiries. Under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we will continue to deal with them. I think it is my duty to remind you once again that an inquiry is a form of parliamentary scrutiny. Inquiries can ask the Minister or the Governor of Eesti Pank about how they fulfil their duties. An inquiry is not an interview where a journalist questions a politician. These are two different forms. As regards the statement of Deputy Chair of the Riigikogu, Taavi Rõivas, I recall that according to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the election of the Vice-Chairmen of the Riigikogu will take place on the first working day of the next working week, i.e. the following Monday. Incoming check, please! The assembly has 67 members of the Riigikogu. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the 5th working week agenda of the VI session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There were 63 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U12	Let's start answering questions. First of all, an inquiry by Maris Lauri, Urve Tiidus, Arto Aas, Aivar Sõerd, Heidy Purga, Madis Milling, Urmas Kruuse, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Remo Holsmer, Jürgen Ligi, Ants Laaneots, Deniss Boroditš, Liina Kersna, Lauri Luik, Toomas Kivimägi, Jüri Jaanson and Hanno Pevkur. Maris Lauri, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This inquiry was already made in June, but the issue has still not lost its topicality. The last report of Estonian human development indicated that the division of Estonian society begins at school. The lack of Estonian language skills narrows the educational opportunities of young people as they grow older and later makes it difficult to find a job and therefore has a negative impact on the entire working life. It would be logical for the Estonian state to do everything in its power to unite the current education system. We know that this process has been going on for a long time and maybe it has not been very smooth, but it is not in itself an excuse for not being able to make things better now. This spring we also received such information that three upper secondary schools in Tallinn have wished to give up the current 60: 40 language courses. More specifically, the aim is to establish Russian as the language of study at the upper secondary school of the Russian Upper Secondary School in Tallinn. The wish of the Russian Lyceum of Tallinn City Hill is to teach more than 60% of subjects in Russian at upper secondary school. Lasnamäe Upper Secondary School also wishes to be taught in Russian at upper secondary school. Perhaps, in principle, it was proposed to move even further back in a case where progress is not already good. On the basis of these requests, the City Government of Tallinn made a proposal to the Council on 14 June to reduce the learning of Estonian language. Our questions also came from these two opposing processes. There were two of them. Firstly, how the government feels about the recommendation in the Human Development Report to move towards a single Estonian-language school that guarantees equal opportunities for all, children and young people, and then, through education, to ensure that these young people later, when they are already adults, are successful in their future life. The second question concerns the applications of these three schools for the transition to Russian-language education. Will they be satisfied, and if so, for what reasons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U14	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U15	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you very much for asking this question and for asking these questions! If allowed, I will read the question first and then the answer. Question 1: "How does the government feel about the recommendation in the Estonian Human Development Report to create a single Estonian-language school that ensures equal opportunities for all Estonian children and young people in education and later in finding employment? The aim of the Government of the Republic is to increase the level of knowledge of the Estonian language of students in Russian-language schools. More specifically, the level of knowledge of the Estonian language of Russian middle school graduates would be B2 by the end of comprehensive school. This, of course, means that by the end of upper secondary school this level is C1. B2 level is an indispensable prerequisite for a smooth transition to Estonian-language secondary education and C1 level language proficiency by the end of upper secondary school. Language proficiency at C1 level is a prerequisite for the acquisition of higher education in Estonian and for equal competition in the Estonian labour market. In order to achieve this goal, we will contribute to teacher training, modernisation of educational resources and the creation of an environment conducive to language learning, such as language camps, non-school activities, at both the level of initial and basic education, and we will also support schools with advice. We will also continue to support and develop the language immersion programme, as its effectiveness has been proven with years of experience and we can see that it is becoming increasingly popular, also at kindergarten level. I assure you, very honourable heirs, that education in Estonian and education in Estonian are a priority of the Ministry of Education and Research. This has also been confirmed repeatedly by the Minister of Education and Science in front of you here. A good opportunity to develop the Estonian education system and reduce the educational gap is a model of a multicultural school. The multicultural school also takes into account the quality criteria related to cultural awareness and sensitivity as described in the national curriculum, such as the skilful integration of subjects and languages in all classes, the ability of school staff to manage intercultural dialogue, the cultural theoretic knowledge of teachers and management, etc. For the second year, the Ministry of Education and Research has been working on a project involving schools and kindergartens who already have teaching experience in a multilingual and cultural environment. At the end of the academic year, this model will also be introduced to other schools and specific recommendations and funding proposals will be developed to support students with a language different from the language of instruction. The second question: "Does the government satisfy the three schools' requests for transition to Russian? If so, what are the reasons for deepening inequality and maintaining two communities in Estonia? 'Tallinn City Council has forwarded to the Government of the Republic Decision No 94 adopted at the extraordinary session of 20 June 2017, entitled 'Application to the Government of the Republic for the initiation of a pilot project for flexible language and subject learning at the Russian Lytseum, the Russian Upper Secondary School of Tallinn Central City and the Lasnamäe Gymnasium'. The Government of the Republic has not discussed or decided to grant the application submitted. On 26 September 2017, the Ministry of Education and Research and the City Government of Tallinn signed an agreement aimed at increasing the efficiency of Estonian language learning in three schools of general education in Tallinn. In cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research, the three schools and the city of Tallinn, a pilot project was launched to create more flexible and effective opportunities for raising the level of proficiency in Estonian at the third level of the basic school to B2 as mentioned above and then to the level of C1 in upper secondary school. As we know, the level of language proficiency achieved at the end of the upper secondary school must be B2, which is weaker than C1. The activities to improve language learning are started in these three schools in the seventh grade, or school level, where schools are legally allowed to organise Russian-language education. I stress that participation in the pilot programme is not the same as an exception for the language of instruction. Within the framework of the project, schools will be able to test modern language learning opportunities in order to create an organic language environment for students and to increase the motivation to use Estonian also in extracurricular times. Each school will have the opportunity to decide, on the basis of its own specific characteristics, what measures need to be taken to ensure an increase in the level of language learning and skills. At the meeting with school leaders and teachers, it was agreed that a number of activities, such as teacher training, extracurricular activities, etc., could be carried out in cooperation between schools. The project will certainly involve parents, as they have an important role to play in supporting language learning. The duration of the project is 2017 to 2020 and a million euros will be invested in improving the learning of Estonian language. Other schools will be able to use the effective and effective solutions developed by the project. Honourable heirs, I thank you and I will certainly answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U16	Questions for the Prime Minister. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U17	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! Did you familiarize yourself with the text of the inquiry before reading the answer? Are you familiar with the main message of the Human Development Report on this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U18	Thank you. Of course, I was familiar with this text, which I came to report to the honourable Riigikogu, and not before it was reported, but I worked on it in the previous weeks.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U19	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U20	Thank you. Prime Minister! The Human Development Report points out that language learning should begin as early as possible and should avoid the parallel existence of two schools. This means that we should move in the direction of having a school where there is no difference as to which language the child comes from, then there will be a common education. When I listened to your answer, he said they were doing all sorts of things, but I didn't get the impression that the government had a plan to move towards it. It is obviously too late to deepen language learning in grade 7; it could start already in early childhood education and it would be high time to start with primary classes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U21	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I don't quite know what I have to do to make my answers seem credible to you. If you say that language learning should start earlier than in the seventh grade, then I agree with it, in any case it should start earlier. Each class is a good one. I think we should also think very clearly about what is going on in kindergartens, i.e. how we can already improve the quality and intensity of Estonian language learning there and how we can find enough people to teach Estonian there. I fully agree with that, I have no objections. You say that my answer was not effective enough, but I said several times that it would be desired that the level of proficiency in Estonian at the end of comprehensive school would rise from the current B1 to B2 and from B2 to C1 at the end of upper secondary school. It's a higher level. I am no longer able to do anything in this Riigikogu speech chair to convey this effectiveness to you. In any case, I think that better, better education of the Estonian language at all levels of education is welcome and commendable.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U22	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In your speech, you said that the plan was to invest a million euros in either the Ministry of Education or someone else's money to better integrate Russian or foreign language students, to better organise their language learning. This one million seems to be quite a lot of money, so I'm asking what is going to be done for this money. What exactly do these investments go for?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U24	Thank you. I guess I already said in my speech that, on the one hand, we are contributing to teacher training, on the other hand, to extracurricular activities and, on the other hand, to teaching materials. It's not one million per school, it still has to be divided into a number of schools. In any case, we need better teaching materials. In my opinion, we need much more intensive extracurricular activities to raise the level of Estonian language. If schools can work together to improve the learning and quality of the Estonian language, I think it is right, but it all starts with one thing: do we have enough people, teachers who teach the Estonian language? The question of the questioner who preceded you was very correct, this aspect of kindergartens, but unfortunately we are now faced with the fact that there are not enough people in Estonia who can teach the Estonian language so widely. The more Estonian teachers are, the better, the more intensive the learning is, and the sooner we can start teaching the Estonian language.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U25	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U26	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! I'm going to take on the last sentence of your answer that there aren't enough teachers who can teach all children effectively. As Prime Minister, what will you do in the near future to increase the number of their teachers and to ensure that modern teaching techniques are included in kindergartens and schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U27	Thank you. Isn't it necessary to clarify one general principle - what is the position of a teacher in Estonian society? I think the teacher is the most important, in the best sense, with the teacher's capital letter. What can the government do for this? He can improve their working conditions, as much as the taxpayer from the state budget allows to contribute. Teachers' salary is a clear priority in this document, which is on your desk, or next year's state budget. We want to raise the minimum wage for teachers to EUR 1150 next year. I don't think it's a magic wand, but it's one step. The second step is to give concrete examples, namely that there are schools that are not one hundred percent Estonian, i.e. there are upper secondary schools with a ratio of 60 to 40. There is a need to improve the methodology, to obtain materials, etc. The third step is what we can all do to build as many bridges as possible in society so that society is sufficiently coherent. The fact that there are no teachers here, in my opinion, is not worth showing against any minister or government, is actually a problem, of course there could be more.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U28	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! You are certainly familiar with the positive impact of immersion schools, including in Tartu. I ask you this: why does the government not, together with those municipalities where there are problems with teaching the Estonian language, apply the immersion to a wider extent than it is currently in use? There are good examples in this area that both Estonian language skills develop and grow faster than in the normal system.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U30	Thank you. I agree, this principle is correct. But I'd say that a immersion doesn't just have to be on the school level, but here we can look more broadly. I think that Maris Lauri, when he asked his question, said very correctly that we could actually look at what could be done in kindergartens. A language immersion at such a young age is, in any case, the right step, and it is done, implemented in several municipalities. If Tartu does, it is commendable. In my opinion, immersion should take place both at school level and at kindergarten level. The more we can use it, the better. The truth is, when you do this kind of immersion, it's different from the regular group. This requires more and more resources, and some more should be invested in it. But the principle is correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U31	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U32	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! As we speak Estonian, please answer the question which question you answered today. Because on this yellow paper, where the agenda is confirmed, it says 'Ask about creating equal opportunities for Estonian children in education', but a copy, which is on the green page, talks about giving up equal opportunities for Estonian children in education.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U33	Thank you. I really do not organise the house and work of the Riigikogu and do not know why the yellow and green papers are different. But I do know that I responded to an inquiry entitled 'Forgoing equal opportunities for Estonian children in education'. Very many members of the Riigikogu have signed. There's signatures here, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U34	It is part of my duties to remind you from time to time: in the case of enquiries, you have a question. Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! I believe we're trying to find an answer to Külliik's Hatter's question. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U35	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! I saw a certain patho in the eyes of the Prime Minister and heard him say he was thoroughly prepared and always prepares when the honourable Riigikogu asks him something. But obviously he's prepared not to answer. It is far from being that the paper is different in colour or that one word is different on one piece of paper, but it is that the Prime Minister deliberately avoids the question, spells the points of conversation on paper and mentions some way of improving and improving it. However, the Human Development Report, which has been mentioned at the beginning of the inquiry, says that learning the Estonian language is not enough, it is necessary to begin teaching in Estonian. It's already about kindergarten, but it's also about middle school. It's too late in high school. It is not about learning the language, it is about creating segregation in our society in two separate educational systems. The Russians live more and more separately, they work more and more separately, they study in worse schools, they do not have Estonian friends, they do not have a social network that Estonians have to use. Because of all this, they will get a much worse education and certainly a much worse choice. The situation of the Russians in society is worse, not because they are being persecuted, as a few years ago tried to instill a minister who is still in the government, but because the Russians are separated into separate schools and separate kindergartens. It restores the division of society on national soil. I understand that the Soviets and the Centre Party enjoy this situation, they have monopolised the Russians' voices, and we will be accused of any sin, of intimidation, of politicisation. But the Human Development Report has followed our view that children must be taught together since kindergarten. We're doing it with the refugees. They won't be here long, as the statistics show, but as long as they're here, the results are excellent. This was one of the first topics I encountered as Minister of Education. About the refugees, I asked if we could handle them. Yeah, we'll be fine. Schools and kindergartens are worried, but we can handle them, experts answered me. The result is that they learn very well the language they start earlier, the sooner they get into the collective. It's too late to start high school. It's too late for some. Many do not dare go to upper secondary school because it is in Estonian, but they have studied Russian in primary school and are afraid. However, these networks must be set up earlier. After all, this was also the key issue of our inquiry. It is an exceptional pity that the government continues to avoid this issue and, in essence, harm the future of these children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U36	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U37	Good manager! Prime Minister and ladies and gentlemen. I studied at school in Kohtla-Järve. When I graduated, my school was the only Estonian school in this town. This school is still here. Saturday I went to this school reunion, she's 95 years old. This is still an Estonian school, a very nice Estonian school. The school family is united. This unity was emphasized by very different guests, including representatives of Russian schools and schools at all, despite the fact that this school now has, I dare not say exactly, but perhaps half the children come from a non-Estonian family or mixed family. The concert was conducted by a very nice boy, Alex, who did it in a very beautiful and clear Estonian language. I don't think he was Estonian, but he never hesitated that he didn't speak Estonian. In this school, all children dance Estonian dances in the folk dance circle. I've been talking to these kids, I've been visiting them, not just at such a fancy show. Sometimes you can easily sense a small accent, but it can come from having a pretty sharp ear about it. There's all one family. I think that the children who come out of that school will be very successful in their future life, because they have links with both the Estonian community and Russian-speaking people. They have two cultures because they do not lose their Russian culture when they study in Estonian school. You can learn that too. Tung to that school is quite big enough to be welcome to everyone. Unfortunately, I did not hear an understanding of the Prime Minister's answers today of what Mr Jüri Ligi has already referred to: we are not talking about studying Estonian, we are talking about studying Estonian. Studying in another language doesn't hurt children. If we are afraid of it here in Estonia, we can look at international schools, whether in Brussels or in Luxembourg, with one language or another. In this sense, I do not understand that if we have clear examples and experience of language immersion schools and classes, if we have schools where you study as you do in my home school, why do you need to start experimenting again, experimenting or giving special permissions? The methodology is there, these things could work. Somehow they don't want to use it. I really hope, however, that at some point the realization of our current government will arrive, too, that it would be better for our Estonian children to all study at the same school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U38	No more members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate. Prime Minister? No, I don't. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U39	The next question is submitted by Andres Herkel, Artur Talvik, Jüri Adams, Monika Haukanõm, Andres Ammas, Külliki Kübarsepp, Krista Aru and Ain Lutsepp. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U40	Mr. Chairman! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of September, when talk was published about how Danske Bank's Estonian branch once again went through money of dubious origin in very large sums of EUR 2.5 billion over two years, this information not only shakes the Estonian press. I have read articles about Guardian, Le Monde, Le Soir, Süddeutsche Zeitung and many other parts of it. In fact, more important than the fact that there was probably weak banking supervision in Estonia, which is why, unfortunately, these things could take place through a bank operating in Estonia, the dimension of this matter is of course. It is not even so important what money it was and whether it was criminal money that passed through it, but the dimension that this money reached European politicians with a view to obtaining favourable positions against the Azerbaijani regime on issues relating to human rights and political prisoners, and the positive evaluation of the conduct of elections, even if there is nothing positive there. This is an incredible scandal of political corruption in Europe. We submitted this inquiry to the Prime Minister in order to receive support for the Estonian Financial Supervision Authority to do its business better, to ensure that our Financial Intelligence Unit is at a level with its investigations, and to actually encourage partner countries to contact the Estonian Financial Intelligence Unit if necessary, because the suspicions of political corruption, as I said, are very extensive. Some things have come up. For example, it has been pointed out that the bank account of Luca Volontè, a former member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the president of the EPP Group, received as much as EUR 2.3 million for 'consultation in the field of agriculture'. However, Italian researchers suspect that the money was actually used to influence the Members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to vote against a resolution that contained the situation of political prisoners in Azerbaijan. The desire was to prove that there were no political prisoners. We have also received data on a German politician whose sum was slightly less than EUR 1 million and who in turn has supported other politicians. One branch arrived in Belgium and one of these Belgians was also the rapporteur of the Council of Europe at last week's session. His report was again to be about the human rights situation in Azerbaijan, but he resigned in the light of these facts and did not come forward with this report. According to my observations, the scope of the so-called Azerbaijani network of political friends has been considerable: with great enthusiasm, the countries that have been set up as observers for electoral missions and which are in deep democratic need are well-known as a pattern example. Mailis Reps remembers these things as well as I do. I am not exaggerating when I say that this is one of the biggest political corruption scandals in Europe. This concerns not only the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, but also the European Parliament and other so-called monitoring organisations that have dealt with these issues. Our interest is to shed light on this whole thing. Our sense is that the top of the iceberg has actually come out, and as a result, our questions go to several branches. Without a doubt, we want things to be better in Estonia with the Financial Supervision Authority and banking supervision, but we also want to go deep on this matter in order to bring abuse to light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U41	Thank you! The inquiry must be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U42	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you for your inquiry. I am here before you to answer an inquiry entitled 'Azerbaijan washing machine, banking supervision and caviar diplomacy'. There are six questions in the question. In preparing this inquiry, I have seen the materials and met people of the Financial Supervision Authority face to face to discuss this issue. Of course, first of all, I would like to thank you for raising this issue here. Next, I will answer the question, read the questions, and then the answers. 'What assessment do you make of Estonia's activities in combating money laundering between 2012 and 2014 and thereafter? How was large-scale money laundering possible through a bank operating in Estonia? What has the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Supervision Authority and the Financial Intelligence Unit done to prevent such incidents from happening again? ' First, a few words about the functions of the institutions referred to. The primary level of supervision of money laundering in Estonia is the task of the FIU, which collects, inter alia, relevant information, pursues the proceeds of crime and carries out money laundering procedures. The police and the prosecutor's office, as investigative authorities, detect cases of crime and send cases to the courts, who decide on the existence of an offence and impose penalties. The Financial Supervision Authority shall exercise financial supervision. The supervision of money laundering shall in particular be dealt with by the Inspectorate through the control of the processes and internal procedures of financial intermediaries subject to its supervision. Financial supervision shall verify the processes and systems of the supervisory authority, but not whether money laundering was specifically committed. In Danske's case, too, it was the Financial Supervision Authority that, thanks to the control systems, discovered significant deficiencies in the bank and reacted within the limits of legal possibilities. The Ministry of Finance is one of the authors of the necessary legislation in the financial sector. I have no doubt that the supervision of money laundering is well organised in Estonia. The Estonian road is strong institutions and a clean, honest functioning business environment. Of course, no law or regulation precludes the commission of infringements. There have been unfortunate cases in banking not only in Estonia but also in many other countries where risk management systems have not always worked in a particular bank. Work to avoid the accumulation of risks must be carried out at all times and consistently. The Financial Supervision Authority has drawn attention to many bottlenecks since 2004. For example, the current levels of fines have been and continue to be too low and it is therefore appropriate to revise the respective levels of penalties. There is a draft law in the government for coordination, which significantly increases the levels of sanctions and increases the level of self-reliability of supervisors in the financial sector. In 2014, even before the discovery of the Danske Bank case, the Financial Supervision Authority made the prevention of money laundering one of its priorities. It is also stated in the institution's strategy, and the people of the inspection are working on this every day. Looking back to today from the time mentioned in the question, we have, I think, made a step forward. For example, the proportion of non-residents has fallen from 20% to 12% compared to 2014, mainly at the expense of non-residents with a higher risk of money laundering. These risks in the financial sector have decreased significantly compared to 2014. The capacity of the Estonian state, including the functioning of financial supervision, has also been assessed as an independent expert by the Committee of Experts at the Council of Europe, which considers that the Estonian system meets substantially internationally recognised requirements. The second question: 'How do you estimate that a bank operating in Estonia was actively recruiting money laundering clients abroad, as shown by the material published in Äripäev? ' It is a normal banking practice for credit institutions or other financial intermediaries to use agents to sell their services. Probably many of them have invited us to join the pension fund in the shopping centre or have offered to help with leasing or insurance. So there's nothing to blame for hiring clients through agents. In this case, the key is the fulfilment of obligations under the law. In 2014, the Financial Supervision Authority controlled Danske Bank. Significant weaknesses in the management and systems implemented were reported to the Bank. It was these control systems that had to prevent the service of customers who were unusual and suspected of money laundering. At the time, the inspection clearly pointed to shortcomings in the use of bank agents. As far as I know, Danske Bank has today brought its activities into line with the requirements of the law and has completed the business line of risky non-residents. The third question: 'How do you assess and explain that there were no fines in a huge amount of money laundering cases, but that the Financial Supervision Authority's precept was limited to the resolution of infringements? Is monitoring and legislation supporting it sufficient and effective? 'The Financial Supervision Authority shall, in particular, monitor banking processes and systems and their functioning, and not whether an offence against money laundering has been actually committed and whether it has been proved. It is up to the financial supervisory authority to decide which legal method best achieves the objective of financial supervision. I also stress that according to the law, the Financial Supervision Authority is independent in the exercise of financial supervision. The Financial Supervision Authority has publicly justified that a precept made on the basis of an in-depth on-the-spot check of the method chosen in the Danske case should not be understood merely from the point of view of individual clients who were involved in suspected money laundering. As a result of the precept, Danske exited completely from the risky non-resident segment. In addition to completing such a business, the bank also dealt with certain personal issues in dialogue with the Financial Supervision Authority. Question 4: "How do you estimate that one country (Azerbaijan) tried to buy money for money in the international arena? What is Estonia's position in such cases? ' I think it's deplorable. Question 5: 'Danske Bank's Estonian branch provided funding to at least two European politicians: the wife of the Director-General of UNESCO and the producer of CNN. There is certainly a wider network for the purchase of international praises to Azerbaijan. We ask how other persons who have received money from the washing machine are controlled and disclosed and how their possible link to the so-called caviar diplomacy network will be clarified. The purpose of the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Act is that no one uses the monetary system and economic space of the Republic of Estonia for money laundering or terrorist financing. Outline note: As we know, there is a new full text of this law in the proceedings of the Riigikogu. According to the Act, in Estonia, persons are controlled on money laundering issues by a Financial Intelligence Unit, which is an independent structural unit of the Police and Border Guard Board. The FIU shall analyse and verify the information received from obliged subjects and other persons regarding the suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing, shall, where appropriate, take measures to preserve property and shall immediately transmit the material to the competent authorities for the purpose of deciding whether to open a pre-trial investigation upon the detection of the characteristics of the crime. Since money laundering is often a cross-border offence where illegal proceeds from a crime committed in one country are rapidly transferred to cover their tracks through transaction chains across different countries, domestic and also cross-border cooperation is key to preventing it. I trust Estonian law enforcement bodies. I am convinced that they will do their job well and with commitment, and if there has been an infringement, sanctions and publicity will follow. Question 6: Has Azerbaijan's washing machine also become the money of Estonian politicians and public figures? Are there cases where Estonian politicians have accepted free travel conferences and election observation missions from the Azerbaijani authorities or their related non-profit organisations, in return for which positive assessments have been expected and given? What is the position of the Government of the Republic in such cases? ' Estonia's law enforcement authorities have not provided me with the relevant information, and at the meeting with the Financial Supervision Authority, I asked this question separately. And as I said earlier, I have no reason to doubt the competence of the state institutions involved in the prevention of money laundering and corruption in Estonia, nor the willingness to start, conduct and bring an investigation to the public if necessary. I am of the opinion that there should be no place among politicians for the views and policies they buy for money. I believe that this position is shared by other members of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U43	Questions for the Prime Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. We certainly got into a negative light as a country of transit for money laundering. But we could get into a much more positive light if we helped to get to the roots of this thing and to find out as much of these things as possible. At the moment, we may know the top of the iceberg. Have you raised the need for further revealing this international corruption network, which we are accustomed to calling it a spoilingly caviar diplomacy, also as a Presidency at European Union level? Or have you been asked what the role of Estonia is, what we intend to do further and what we expect from other countries so that our Financial Intelligence Unit can act more effectively?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U45	Thank you. I will, of course, also start by thanking you for addressing this issue. I think you have asked me about this in one Question Time and about the same view that what has been done as the Estonian Presidency. I will give some examples of cooperation projects between Estonia and Azerbaijan, which reveal what we have done and which are also related to the Estonian Presidency. First of all, Estonia and Azerbaijan have closer cooperation in the field of ICT and education. For example, representatives of Azerbaijani universities have regularly visited Tallinn and Tartu. Secondly, in the case of development cooperation, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has contributed the most to scholarship programmes, offering support for studying in master's programmes at Estonian universities. Now about the Estonian Eastern Partnership Centre. There are seminars and visits to national officials in Azerbaijan in the framework of bilateral and multilateral cooperation. In terms of topics and drafts related to the prevention of money laundering and the fight against corruption, which are on the table at large during the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, I shall first mention what is our objective. The aim is, of course, to reach agreement with the European Parliament on amendments to the Anti-Money Laundering Directive. This means, inter alia, strengthening cooperation between FIUs and linking the registers of the beneficial owners of companies across the European Union. The register of actual beneficiaries will certainly make the business environment more transparent and, among other things, reduce the risk of corruption. Extending the competence and cooperation of FIUs will contribute to the flow of information between Member States in order to prevent possible money laundering incidents. Secondly, we are certainly making an effort to ensure that money laundering crimes are dealt with across Europe on the basis of common principles. And we are also ready to start trilogues as soon as the European Parliament presents its report. Thirdly, there is a legal framework for the mutual recognition of freezing orders and confiscation orders in the European Union in the context of modernisation. A freezing or confiscation order issued in one Member State must be rapidly and effectively recognised and enforceable in the other Member States. We are working towards a general approach within the Council of the European Union. Fourthly, we have raised the issue of combating corruption with the Eastern Partnership countries. For example, the discussion of the Justice and Home Affairs Ministers of the Eastern Partnership, held in Tallinn on 7 July, highlighted the importance of prevention, law enforcement and e-governance in the fight against corruption. Ministers instructed the expert level to develop partner countries' systems to better monitor and eliminate the criminal market in order to combat corruption. Ministers also promised to consider setting up electronic declaration systems for assets and the establishment of Asset Recovery Offices. A little more indirect, however, is the creation of a European Public Prosecutor's Office to combat financial fraud against the European Union. And I am pleased to say here today that the decision to set up the European Public Prosecutor's Office was taken last Thursday, 12 October, in the Justice and Home Affairs Council. These were the points that I could say to answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U46	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U47	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! I will elaborate on my colleague's question, or I will continue to do so in my own way. This so-called Danske case is undoubtedly regrettable. How serious do you think this case has damaged the reputation of the Estonian financial system? And have you had any formal or non-formal meetings with your colleagues from other countries to explain, answer some questions, or have you not found it elsewhere, outside Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U48	Thank you. Of course, it is regrettable. The branch of this bank operates in Estonia where the case took place. And although it is a bank in another country, it does not reduce problems or negativity. The other part of your question was whether any of my colleagues had asked me about the case of Azerbaijan or Danske Bank. No, I don't recall it being so specifically on the table or asking questions. So it doesn't ring a bell.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U49	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U50	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! You said you met the people of the inspection personally. After all, this was a very systematic and thought-out scheme for years, where the head of the Estonian bank had direct permission to do so. The fact that the inspection did not react during these years suggests that there has also been some kind of guarantee inside the system. You also referred to the use of sanctions or certain methods against individuals in your reply. Can you tell me exactly what the inspection has done to make sure the same thing doesn't happen again? Are the people involved in this system now in other areas of life?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U51	Thank you. I certainly don't know how to answer you so personally and in detail. But what has the inspection learned from this case? They have said, as I said, that such fines are not proportionate, that they actually need to be increased. This is particularly the case with the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Act. As far as I'm concerned, I think it should be on your desk this week, I'm talking about bill 459. They said at this meeting, where I asked what this lesson was or what they saw as preventively more effective, that there was certainly a need to revise the fine rates. The maximum fine was ca 32000 euros at the time. I think it's still in place, and it's going to be too small in any case. I understand that there is another extreme, according to which the Anti-Money Laundering Directive provides for a maximum fine of about 10% of the bank's turnover. That's the other direction or the other line. But I think so, as I said, these fine rates should be reviewed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U52	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Does the Estonian Government intend to take any initiative or proposal to eradicate such caviar diplomacy, in particular in international cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U54	I do not know how much of this can now be called an Estonian initiative, but even this one example of the creation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Estonia was one of the first to give its approval so that it should be created. And as I said, this plan was approved and set up last Thursday at a meeting of Justice and Home Affairs Ministers. So that's one particular example.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U55	Thank you, Prime Minister. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U56	Mr President! Thank you, Prime Minister, in any case, for these answers. I'm sure they had good will, maybe a little misconception. The question is, after all, that my view of this whole thing relates to their very bad consequences and how this money could have reached European politicians in the first place and what we should do in such a situation, so that it never happens again. Mart Helme comes here from time to time to talk about the time of liberal democracy being over. I think the time for liberal democracy is not over. Liberal democracy is the form of democracy that exists in European civilisation, and we must keep it. But this case in itself, this massive buying of politicians' votes, which is the consequence of caviar diplomacy, has undoubtedly shaken liberal democracy's authority very regrettablely. And that's why, I think, it's important what happens to our Financial Supervision Authority within a few years. I hope it's much better now. We may not be able to determine the criminal origin of the money that came to Estonia, but we can determine where he went. And where he went is a real threat to the continuation and continuation of European civilised politics. This is exactly where I would like us to have full support for these things to come out. How can they come out? I did not mention the fact that the Special Committee on Corruption had a meeting with the Head of the Financial Intelligence Unit, Mr Reimand, just today, when I introduced this inquiry. It's not like you're gonna go and see who's been wired to the bank. There are 16,000 of these transfers. This can still be opened once some kind of criminal investigation has started, as was the case with Volontè. So one thing that European countries can be called upon to do is to launch investigations in case of suspicions that are currently quite powerfully circulating in the press. Then there will be an opportunity to contact the Estonian data bureau, and perhaps something will work out. Furthermore, I think that the national parliaments should look very closely at where and under what circumstances their politicians are going. There have also been observers of different statuses in the Azerbaijani elections from Estonia. There were especially many on the plane when I was the head of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe's observation mission. There were quite a few small organisations from Estonia that had been invited by Azerbaijan. I will give just one example of the 2013 elections. I was the Head of Mission in 2008 when it was still possible to give a common position with the OSCE ODIHR, although it was very difficult. Caviar diplomats were fiercely opposed, but they succeeded. In 2013, nothing was successful. It has been estimated that 50 observation missions were participating in these elections, which had been sent by various non-profit organisations and which helped to organise and finance Azerbaijan itself. I don't think all the people who were there got the money directly for it. However, there was some kind of opportunity: the possibility of coming abroad, looking around a little bit, and then giving a positive view of something that the so-called mission participants may not have known a thing about. We should end this kind of thing. Such things should end in all countries. This is what I would like to call on all members of the Riigikogu as well as the Prime Minister, who is the first face of Estonian politics in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U57	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests for speech, nor does the Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue. Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, for your answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U58	And now the inquiry by Krista Aru, Küllik's Hatter, Andres Ammas, Artur Talvik, Ain Lutsepp, Monika Haukanõm and Andres Herkel. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U59	Mr. Chairman! Madam Minister! Good people's representatives! Madam Minister, I would like to apologise very much for asking for a discussion already on 5 June, and a number of questions raised in this inquiry have changed very radically today. There's nothing we can do about that right now. So I ask that, if you answer these questions, be sure to think about some very specific claims that we are now in October. However, there are at least three fundamental matters in question. We certainly want to hear and understand how the Minister of Education and Research sees this whole regional policy plan to take out part of the jobs to and from Tallinn. And is it true that these ever-expanding claims that, in fact, with this regional policy manoeuvring, some of the jobs in Tartu will be moved to Tallinn and people working in Tartu will lose their jobs? Secondly, we really need to look at the big problem of whether the heads of institutions have talked to people properly about all these relocation plans. As far as I know, a number of managers whose employees are probably affected by this relocation have announced to the people of their institution that either you will take and move to Tartu now or you will receive a notice of redundancy. In many cases, it is specialists who may be the only ones in Estonia who have the specifics of a certain programme. Is this meaningful and necessary for the state, especially in education and research policies? And the third big issue is what they still want to achieve with these relocations. Are they so planned that they really contribute to our entire R &amp; D, education policy and look at everything a little more broadly, given the overall picture and answer the question whether it makes sense. To what extent has the Ministry of Education and Research considered and prepared to implement flexible employment opportunities in the course of these relocations and relocations, namely the possibility of teleworking and also changing and flexible working hours? Is it not one such question that we are moving people and hoping that it will get better, but in a small country, just as in a large country, this move may not always be the best result that might have been desired at the beginning? So, thank you, Minister, and I hope for a discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U60	The Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U61	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Let's start with a technical introduction. Indeed, the date of reply to this inquiry takes into account the fact that, in the meantime, all summer work has been done with voters. So, according to the Riigikogu and the government, the work has been done quite at its own pace. At the same time, the subject has not lost its modernity. The Department of Analysis of the Ministry of Education and Research reviewed and charted the situation again. And maybe today it's easier to answer than June when it was still plans. Today we can already say how the departments have been specifically agreed. To answer you, we have gathered the best knowledge the Ministry of Education and Research currently has to offer on these topics. The first question was this: 'What greater educational and scientific policy purpose does Archimedes Foundation fulfil in moving the youth agency, the Estonian Youth Work Centre and the Estonian Research Agency's office in Tallinn to Tartu? Why is that necessary? ' In order to optimise and contribute to mitigating the problem of peripheralisation and the transfer of high-paid jobs from Tallinn to other regions, the Government of the Republic has decided to take jobs out of the capital. This is what we must do in the domain of the Ministry of Education and Research. It is not possible or reasonable to move by comprehensive institution from our ministry's point of view now and in this form. For this reason, we have analysed, both by department and by person, how to use teleworking opportunities to enable people to realise themselves outside the capital and work in their home country. Education and research policy is not location-oriented; rather, it is over-estonian. Both educational institutions and research institutions are already very scattered in Estonia. Education and research policies, as well as language and youth policies, are certainly not only designed and implemented in the capital or in Tartu, but are dealt with in different regions. I will now deal with the matter by institution, as you asked. First, the Archimedes Foundation Youth Agency. As of today, there is no plan to move it as a whole. However, it is planned that the jobs of the Archimedes Foundation's units in Tallinn, which currently have a total of 15, will be transferred to Estonia on the principle of teleworking, so that people will have as much work as possible outside the capital. Secondly, the Estonian Youth Work Centre. This, too, is not planned to move to Tartu as a whole. The Centre is involved in the development and organisation of youth work throughout Estonia and is working closely with local authorities. In order to carry out these activities, it is not necessary for the centre of youth work to be located in Tallinn as a whole. According to the plans, two central jobs will remain in Tallinn and the rest of the jobs will be scattered across Estonia. There are 20 jobs and probably, as I said before, two of them would be scattered in Tallinn, two in Tartu and the rest along Estonia. This is so planned because the ENTK has quite a number of regional coordination points, which would then be located in the region for which they are responsible. The Estonian Research Council is currently located in Tartu, but they also have an office in Tallinn. As a result of long discussions, and perhaps it is a good thing that we did not discuss it in June, we reached the optimal solution, where the foundation no longer maintains Tallinn's office, but there are two jobs in the Ministry. This means that we are not keeping people on the ground, but these are jobs. The reason is that there are 10 additional jobs in Tartu. Finally, it turned out that it is not a question for people whether the job is located in Tallinn or in Tartu, for example, there are often more people in Brussels or somewhere else; teleworking is also part of the job. This is what these two permanent physical jobs are for, where they can also be on their trajectory in Tallinn if necessary. I repeat, ten jobs are taken to Tartu and two places of work are available in Tallinn. This was proposed by the Research Council itself to the Ministry of Education and Research as a good solution. All these institutions have been given the opportunity to use the offices, meeting rooms and other necessary facilities during their stay in Tallinn at the Ministry's office in Tallinn. The following question: 'Has and when have bodies' councils approved the proposal and given their support to the proposal? When was the proposal discussed with the authorities' management? What is the financial coverage required for the implementation of the proposals? ' The removal of jobs from Tallinn was discussed with the board of directors and foundations of the institutions in May this year and the plans were clarified throughout the summer. Discussions on the details will continue, including on possible one-off costs. Overall, there will be no high additional costs, rather cost savings will ultimately be avoided. Third: Is and how thoroughly (workers from Tartu to Tallinn and vice versa) the possibility of using teleworking with employees has been considered in this case, so that the restructuring is conducive to family policy? ' Due to the traditional structure of the Ministry and the updating of the organisation of work, three filled posts have moved from Tartu to Tallinn during the summer of 2017. At the beginning of next year, after the end of the Presidency, we plan to bring three members of the International Relations Department to Tallinn. This is due to closer cooperation with embassies and ministries located in Tallinn. These changes occur from time to time, depending on the need to carry out tasks, but the major movement from Tartu to Tallinn or vice versa is not planned by the Ministry of Education and Research. The Ministry is located and operates in Tartu. Since the Ministry is located in Tartu and the administrative area and the school network are already very strongly represented in the region, we constantly assess, use and develop the possibilities of teleworking. It is precisely remote jobs that are covered by half of the exit plan from the capital. The next question: 'How many people working in the Ministry of Tartu are ready to continue their work in Tallinn? Is and where will the Ministry's job restructuring achieve a new quality of work? ' Each year, in the process of updating the usual structure and work processes, either a person or his or her position has moved from Tallinn to Tartu or from Tartu to Tallinn. This has been the case, depending on the need. Due to the completion of the Ministry's joint house, we have seen, in the interests of the best organisation and quality of work, that jobs with other ministries that require close, day-to-day cooperation are, if possible, at least partially in the joint house. Experience so far has shown that cooperation between ministries and sectors has improved significantly. This was also the purpose of creating a common house. 'How much does it cost to relocate the employees of the Ministry of Education and Research to Tallinn? Are workers compensated for the costs of relocation and to what extent? ' There has been no major relocation of workers. There are therefore no additional costs in this regard either. However, we are constantly optimising our activities and we have abandoned two rental premises in Tartu this year. From Tiigi Street, accounting moved to the State Support Services Centre and also brought people from Town Hall Square to the main building on Munga Street. We also expanded the possibilities of teleworking and significantly improved the condition of work premises in the main house. The individual movements that have taken place every year between Tallinn and Tartu are resolved by individually negotiating with people. The normal movement does not entail any significant additional costs. Moreover, the Civil Service Act does not allow the payment of additional fees or allowances to officials which are not expressly provided for by the law. Does the HTM, which is responsible for the higher quality level of Estonian education, have a knowledge-based analysis of the socio-economic impact of planned restructuring to confirm its decisions? What are the conclusions of this analysis and on what basis was the relocation proposal drawn up? Restructuring, i.e. the removal of jobs from the capital, has been analysed by the Department of Public Administration of the Ministry of Finance. This has led to a reduction in marginalisation by removing jobs from the capital. Due to depopulation, public authorities have also been forced to reduce their regional representation and, as a result of the abolition of rural governments and administrative reform, the number of jobs in the regions will be further reduced. The objectives of moving jobs out of the capital are to balance economic and regional disparities between the capital and the rest of the regions; to make public-paid jobs available outside the capital with competitive pay; to give people the opportunity to realise themselves outside the capital; to save expenditure outside the capital is often more sustainable; to raise local income bases; to create new opportunities for local service providers; to bring public authorities closer to citizens; to increase national security and state presence in smaller regions. The Ministry of Education and Research has not carried out a specific analysis of job removals from the capital. The proposal was drawn up in cooperation with the heads of institutions during the negotiations, taking into account the regional aspect, the tasks assigned to them and the possibilities for their implementation more effectively. The proposals put together by the Ministry of Education and Research in October as of yesterday are also included here. According to the decision of the Government of the Republic to remove 1000 jobs from the capital, the Ministry of Education and Research has issued a decision on 100 jobs leaving the capital in the area of HTM administration. The following redeployments are provided: 32 jobs in Tartu county, 14 in Harju county, 10 in Valga county, 7 in Lääne-Viru county, 6 in Lääne county, 3 in Pärnu county, 3 in Viljandi county, 3 in Võru county, 3 in Saare county, 2 in Järva county, 2 in Hiiu county, 1,25 in Ida-Viru county, 1 in Rapla county and 1 in Põlva county. By institutions: SA Archimedes.15 jobs, SA Innove.29 jobs, SA Eesti Teadusagentuur, Sport Training and Information Foundation and Estonian Youth Work Centre.19.25 jobs and Tallinn University 5 jobs. In addition, the accounts of foundations are transferred to the service of the National Support Services Centre, which also means 11.75 jobs. The State Support Services Centre decides their location outside the capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U62	Questions for the Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, first of all, thank you for the explanations concerning the removal of jobs from Tallinn and the creation of teleworking opportunities. But my question is this: will the activities involved in the removal and its consequences also affect the activities of these very foundations, whether Archimedes or the research agency themselves? Does that mean some kind of disappearance or some kind of transformation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U64	Thank you. In preparing the answer to both the Department of Public Administration of the Ministry of Finance and, of course, to this question, I tried to obtain the best information from the departments of the Ministry of Education and Research. And I was repeatedly assured that all these subjects had been negotiated on the level of each individual. Firstly, we are in the Presidency process and most of the European Union's programmes have basically just opened up, we have the most intensive period. Last year they were just opening up and the receipts were delayed, especially from the science side. Surely we must not damage anything that relates to quality here, and this has been confirmed to me repeatedly. Rather, there are people who have a real place of residence somewhere else anyway. They have been allowed to switch, in part or in full, to telework and to live closer to their families. That is why we have been particularly careful to allow them to attend the workplaces in Tallinn and Tartu, to attend meetings, etc., if necessary, so that the day is not lost. For example, the Centre for Youth Work already has a considerable number of young people moving across the Republic. They have different tasks, which are done as teleworking. And it has been very successful. Even when analysing the quality of teleworking, these authorities have been identified by the Ministry of Education. I dare confirm today that we have been particularly careful not to suffer from quality or programmes. Another nuance that I have pointed out here and which must also be taken into account: a number of these jobs are linked to restructuring, for example, in monitoring, and also to the disappearance of rural governments. We also took special note of the fact that, in the wake of the disappearance of rural governments, smart jobs would not disappear from these regions. So when we took new supervisors to the Ministry of Education, we tried to find those who would remain on the ground in the regions rather than gather in the capital. The situation has been analysed both ways, and there is no major institution-by-body exposition, as you can see. It's more like trying to find logical connections here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U65	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Madam Secretary. As a Tartian, in the meantime, I felt insulted by your response, because you said that marginalization would be relaxed, but in fact, jobs are mainly moved between Tallinn and Tartu, and Tartu still does not have a periphery. My question is precisely about peripheralisation and how it will be alleviated. Can we say, for example, that there will be an additional job at the Ministry of Education and Research in Põlva County? Or do they occur in Ida-Virumaa, Narva or Sillamäe? I would like to ask for specific clarification here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U67	One of the objectives of the removal of public administration posts is indeed to mitigate peripheralisation. Yes, Tartu is certainly not a periphery, but the goal of maintaining or developing jobs is still the same: that there are competitive good places for public work. Tartu is at least suitable for young people's university internship. Perhaps you are also aware that we have been marked several times in 2017 and, in one case, because our ministry is very open for young people to practice. The support of young people to the Ministry of Education as a state institution is very high. So the location of the ministry in Tartu has its disadvantages, but certainly also very many pros. I read these numbers out with that idea. If you're asking about Põlva, there's a job coming up, for example, in Ida-Virumaa, 1,25. The Ministry of Education has a number of regional tasks, also in terms of supervision and coordination. There are many Innove jobs in different parts of the Republic, i.e. we have several hundred jobs in Innove, where most jobs are in the regions. Several of these jobs are programme-based. One issue that we have considered seriously in the Ministry of Education is how we can keep these people in the regions even after the end of the programme. Are we going to redirect them to the next program? Maybe there's some kind of change going on here. Rather, they are services which may be handed over from municipalities to certain associations of municipalities. In any case, we do not want to lose these jobs. There has been a great deal of these shakes, especially in support services. I'm talking about the Pathfinder, career counselors, etc. That's the kind of thing we've been following closely. It was also interesting to have a debate at government level when we talked as one topic about the removal of jobs from the capital and as a second topic about the closure of rural governments. We had to keep looking at them in parallel so that we would not lose jobs with one decision, while with the other we would move some institutions out of the capital. In our administration, we have tried to keep as many existing jobs on the ground as possible for very good people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U68	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U69	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I am interested in the reform of the rural governments that is currently underway. This is actually the case with the Ministry of Education, because the supervisory side is concentrated in Do you already have competitions for these posts? Are there any success stories in the case of former rural government employees? They are moving to these new posts? And how will you be organised to carry out this monitoring function? I have realised that it is assumed that these people will also know the circumstances on the ground and will be able to make adequate assessments. How is this guaranteed from New Year's?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U70	Thank you. The issue of supervision has been discussed very seriously with the rural governments since the beginning of 2000. You will certainly be aware that more than 15 years ago, the first round of discussions took place on how to radically reform supervision. Rather than direct control in the broadest sense, it was directed towards thematic supervision, such as the supervision of the service, together with the services supported on a subject, such as the supervision of advice, etc. Then there was also quite a strong idea of abolishing supervision at county level and bringing together all the Ministry of Education and Research. Changes were already made to the law, but a compromise was reached at the last minute: certain supervisory functions were left to rural governments, but a number of tasks were concentrated in ministries. A number of mandates were reduced. This was because of the desire to eliminate duplication of control. If you look at the changes in the supervision of rural governments, it has to be said that the Ministry of Education and Research actually reached reasonable solutions relatively quickly, as this was a once debated issue so many years ago. We are currently able to complete at least 15 to 17 jobs, seven of which have been filled. We are now thoroughly analysing whether these jobs are needed, because the Ministry of Education and Research also has its own people and mostly these jobs are located in Tartu. I'm not sure, but I think there are six or seven jobs in Tallinn. Regionally, they're so divided. Some people work in Tartu and Tallinn, some in the form of teleworking in another region. If you're interested, I can ask you exactly, but I know the numbers are like that. Seven people have already been hired. Are they all people of the county government? I was told there were some when I asked. I can't tell you how many it is, half or more. Everyone had the opportunity to compete, but the majority of rural government educators did not compete for different reasons, largely because of age. Of course, not because we have age discrimination. People must have decided that they would take advantage of the opportunity to deal with their own affairs in the course of major changes. How is this activity planned in advance? Everything has been very thoroughly reviewed. The Ministry of Education and Research's supervisory team is concentrated in the Ministry. Now about the quality of youth work. I am dealing with youth work because rural governments have coordinated a number of programmes, and the Ministry of Education and the NTK alone are probably not enough in the long term. However, we need local government associations to take over some sort of coordinating functions. This is not only necessary for monitoring. These are the same people who have previously concentrated programmes and other activities across municipalities. That's the best idea we've got today. The functions of service and thematic supervision exist in the Ministry of Education and there are no problems with their execution. Interestingly, for example, during the preparation of the Private School Act, we learned (private schools themselves raised the subject of an open-ended training order!) that there are very different expectations across counties, which have emerged during the monitoring exercise, and harmonisation of requirements is actually very necessary. It is certainly a good concentration of supervision at times, but we must make sure that real jobs can still be on the ground in the area where the 'work' is carried out. Exactly because, as you said, people know each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U71	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, What are the numbers here? Jobs are taken out, say, in the direction of Tartu What is this numerical distribution? And where do they go to work in Tallinn? Does the super ministry count here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U73	Thank you. In the case of Tallinn, I think that all six people will be concentrated in the superministery, that is to say, the new larger house. If you are familiar with the Munga Street House of the Ministry of Education in Tartu, there are four floors rebuilt and readjusted. We have tried to improve the working environment, including those rooms located in the basement of Munga Street. There's a window, but they're still in the basement. Indeed, efforts have been made to improve all jobs and to concentrate in this basement those people who are not there all the time. These are so-called mobile jobs for people who, in the meantime, want to be in the working environment. How do they divide? I actually read the numbers once. One hundred jobs out of the capital are distributed as follows: Tartu.32, Harju.14, Valga.10, Lääne-Viru.7, Lääne.6 and Pärnu.3, Viljandi.3 and Võru Saare.3 and Järva.2, Hiiu.2, Ida-Viru.1.25, Rapla.1, Põlva.1 This is exactly how they are distributed, and there are a lot of jobs that have been reviewed at individual level. It is not the case that one large institution, à la Innove or Archimedes, moves to Põlva, but each case has been examined separately. These are usually people who work in the form of telework and who are now able to work at home. Or they are people who live in the area for which they are responsible and who are hired there for this very purpose. That's how it's been analyzed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U74	Thank you, Minister of Education and Science. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U75	Mr. Chairman! Thank you, Madam Minister, for these answers. Good people's representatives! I agree with the Minister on this point that it was probably the right time to look at the plan of the Ministry of Education and Research for where and how jobs are going. I hope that everyone will have a clearer picture, including the people directly affected by this relocation. On behalf of the members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, however, I would like to draw attention to a few moments. Regional policy is very grateful, but regional policy cannot only be done by exchanging and combining jobs between Tallinn and Tartu. It is therefore very much appreciated that the Ministry of Education and Research, at least at the supervisory level, should really move to each county. However, there are also a number of questions that are likely to come to light in the near future. This is a problem of people's own ability to reconcile family and professional life. I would rather expect the Ministry of Education and Research to support more boldly the possibilities of teleworking, these more flexible methods of work, precisely in order not to lose its specialists who know one or the other very well. I have heard from the heads of several institutions such a point of view in the administration of the Ministry of Education and Research that teleworking is not good, because then you cannot watch what people are doing. This assessment is somewhat inappropriate today. Secondly, it would probably now be a good time for the Ministry of Education and Research to also review the tasks of these various foundations. I'm not just thinking about Archimede, the science agency or Innovet here, but we've still gotten so far in time that there are inevitably overlaps in the work of these agencies and foundations. It would probably be more effective and more beneficial for all of us if these tasks and responsibilities, along with them, were also clearer. And thirdly, I would certainly like the entire regional policy implemented by the Ministry of Education and Research at the general level of the state and government to also look at education and research as a whole. Very sorry.. and I am very afraid that the short-sighted is also, when we have now worked for our research and development, a good and well-functioning centre in the form of a strong Tallinn office of the Estonian Research Agency will lose its specialists. It is precisely those specialists who have been engaged for years in a number of European Union programmes aimed at research and development. So here I call for an even wider view that we do not lose the quality of work, that all such restructuring takes into account people's needs, family life and skills, and that it is still ensured that we get the best result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U76	Neither members of the Riigikogu nor the Minister have any more requests for speech. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U77	We are now going to the next question by Jürgen Ligi, Laine Randjärv, Toomas Kivimägi, Remo Holsmer, Eerik-Niles Kross, Liina Kersna, Kristen Michal, Jüri Jaanson, Terje Trei, Aivar Sõerd and Lauri Luik. On behalf of the heirs, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Today, I am going to ask the Minister of Education about the things that I believe stealing is my principle. The answer he gave me in the spring was to lie according to my understanding. One of the first things that the Minister of Education changed from my own time decisions was the location of Paide State High School. When I asked him why he did it, when it gets more and a half times expensive and there are other problems, he said in the spring he didn't know it would be more expensive. I didn't expect such an answer. This is no way for the Minister to make decisions. At the same time, I know that the very local interest of the Centre Party was already at stake when I agreed with the municipality that the school would be in the same infrastructure as the VET centre in the future. In the meantime, things have become clearer. I've met construction expertise, I've got new numbers, and I've seen that this assumed one-and-a-half-time appreciation is actually more like a triple appreciation. The choice has been made that instead of the best possible state gymnasium, a nice house in Post 12 is repeated and public money is spent on it more than it would have been in the Vocational Education Centre. Synergies with vocational education, which was our educational policy choice, will be lost in sports opportunities and a high-quality building will actually be abolished. Construction expertise is very critical of the possibility of building 12 schools on Post Street today. I'm amazed one minister makes such a decision. I'm amazed he claims he doesn't know what he decided. I now want answers with a number of colleagues. I hope that the minister will read the questions himself and look forward to answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U79	The Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U80	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'm not tired of astonishing you that I'm trying to do my best to answer these astonishments. There was a whole series of questions, so I'm going to read them to you and try to answer them. The first question: 'Why did you deny the price increase and not answer the question about the synergy between general and applied substances? ' When speaking about the building of Paide State Upper Secondary School, there have been many different versions: cross-use of the Vocational Education Centre building, construction of a separate building on the Vocational Education Centre's property, reconstruction of the Posti 12 building, construction of the building, etc. On 20 March, I replied, relying on the information available at that time. Archaeological research will continue on Post 12 property next year, and only after that will it be clear whether there is an extension and the possible cost of the building. Savings have never been the only important criterion for building educational buildings. The location must support the work of the school. The reconstruction of architectural monuments and the resuscitation of the city's heart must be encouraged. The broader socio-economic benefits for the living environment must also be considered. In your previous inquiry, you asked why we gave up the synergy between upper secondary school and vocational education. We haven't given it up! On the contrary, we encourage and support the initiative of schools to create synergies, but to do so, schools do not need to be located in one house, people are still working together. Secondly, 'How have you been more proactive about this synergy? ' I assume that the question concerns the synergy between Paide State Upper Secondary School and Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre. During the negotiation of the terms and conditions of the cooperation agreement of the state upper secondary school and in the planning process of the building, the choice of the courses of the state secondary school has been discussed, enabling the study base and competence of the Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre to be used in both Paide and Särevere. This year, 1 October, Paide State Gymnasium has been founded. In due course, the Director will also be the director of the competition, whose task, together with the head of the Vocational Education Centre, is to find opportunities for cooperation and to carry them out in the interests of students and the community. Of course, the aim is synergy and this synergy is supported by the Ministry. We have good experience in general education and cooperation between vocational schools. One example is the cooperation between the Tartu School of Music and the Poska Upper Secondary School in the training of musicians. It is also planned to create a legislative option for the implementation of joint curricula between vocational training institutions and upper secondary schools. Viljandi county vocational schools and state secondary schools cooperate in receiving students: the reception campaign is carried out jointly. The admissions committees at the state upper secondary school have been present and practice has shown that some young people have chosen vocational schools instead of entering upper secondary schools. Valga Gymnasium and Valgamaa Vocational Training Centre jointly make year-round career days for comprehensive school graduates. There are more examples. The next question: 'What will the millions who spend more, or who will miss out, come at the expense of? ' Calculations show that the budget allows the realisation of all projects for which a cooperation agreement has been concluded and which are subject to the state's obligation to provide upper secondary school education as laid down in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. In order to ensure that all the state's obligations are fulfilled, the law provides for state secondary schools in each county, we start the establishment of state secondary schools in county centres first and then we realise other projects in order of their effectiveness. Next: 'What additional obstacles have you identified in cooperation with general and applied substances on Post Street? ' I repeat, people cooperate. According to the Ministry of Education and Research, the gap of a few hundred metres between the two complexes cannot necessarily hinder cooperation between schools. We do not want to hinder relations between schools, but we are looking for concrete solutions for better cooperation. As I said, all kinds of study programmes and other possibilities for better organisation of apprenticeships will be discussed. The head of the school is already being recruited, the competition is underway. The next question: 'How does the school's lack of opportunity to exercise affect? ' I can assure you calmly that sports opportunities will not disappear: the curriculum will be completed and there will be an extracurricular sport activity. In the state secondary school, sports activities take place at any location, I repeat: any location! In particular, in the local sports hall with a wide range of opportunities. The sports building in Paide City is built on the assumption that it is also used by gymnastics, whose number has unfortunately decreased in recent years. The emergence of state secondary schools must not lead to situations where existing opportunities remain untapped and the state is building more underutilised space. The use of city sports facilities is a normal practice in all state secondary schools. Only two gymnasiums have their own gymnasium in Pärnu Koidula and Tartu Tammel, but there are also two or three times as many students in these schools. Also: The sports building in Paide City is much closer to the Posti Street school than to the vocational school. Question 6: 'The Paide Council made this decision in the interests of renovating the House on Post Street, without considering the educational political consequences and for millions that are not his own. In your opinion, what should be the responsibility of the State Minister for Education if it is not the best solution in terms of education or the efficient allocation of taxpayers' money? ' The principle of the 2014/20 Lifelong Learning Strategy is that the state secondary school is set up in agreement with the local government. Paide State Gymnasium is also established in cooperation with the community and taking into account the wishes of the community. The City of Paide has contributed to the purchase of the building from its private owner, archaeological research, detailed planning, etc. Apart from educational circumstances, the historical background of the building is also important in renovating the school building on Posti Street. After all, this is an historic gymnasium building. The preservation of the architectural heritage is an object protected by heritage, and the revival of the city's heart is very important. I quote an article by the academician Mart Kalm: 'It was a pleasure to read that Paides was setting up a state gymnasium in an empty historical school on Posti Street. [---] Is it cheaper for the state if the Ministry of Education builds a new house and the Ministry of Culture, in turn, spends on maintaining an empty monument? " The contents of the public purse should be used more wisely, not only in the interests of education, but the wider community should also benefit as much as possible. The National Heritage Board has also pointed out in its memo how important it is to revive historic buildings, giving them content that is dignified and suitable for the interests of the population. The school is an open institution and the opportunities offered by the school building can be used by the whole community. Many state secondary schools operate in old buildings protected by heritage. I'm sure the former Minister of Education is aware of that. These include Viljandi Gymnasium, Läänemaa Common Gymnasium, next year's Rapla Gymnasium and Võru Gymnasium. We consider the pros and cons of every investment, if necessary repeatedly. I will give you another example of the decision taken quite recently on the state gymnasium to be opened in Kohtla-Järve. As you know, for a year and a half, the Kohtla-Järve debate was a very important object of heritage protection. After in-depth discussions on heritage conservation and the decision repeatedly criticised by architectural historians, we came to the view that the best solution for upper secondary school students was not an object of heritage conservation. But that is what we were able to decide only after very thorough research. At present, it cannot be stated with certainty that Paide will carry out the entire detailed plan, including the initially planned extension to Posti 12. The reconstruction of the Post 12 building, the volume, location and other conditions of the extension will be revealed when all the necessary basic data are available. Perhaps once again: as in the spring, I stress today, the decision will be made after the end of the archaeological digs. Therefore, we do not exclude the use of a part of the current vocational training facility or the use of another building in the city of Paide if it becomes clear that it is necessary for the decision-making day in question. The Vocational Training Centre has furnished laboratories, experienced teachers, has rooms and has a wide range of activities. We certainly don't intend to duplicate these activities. 'What are the latest estimates of the price of your decision? " Once again, archaeological excavations are ongoing, and they will continue next year. In addition, the possibility and the possible cost of the addition will be apparent. Only then will the final clarity of the use of 12 properties on Post Street and possible building volumes be revealed. We can then also draw up a realistic budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U81	The first question is asked by Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! I realized that archaeological excavations would not end until next year. Can there be no problem with the time limit for using European Union money? And the second question: you mentioned that Kohtla-Järve has made a decision that a beautiful building under heritage protection is not suitable for a schoolhouse. Why a different approach to Paides, where the old building might fit, and Kohtla-Järve, where it has already been decided that it certainly does not fit?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U83	This community, which has discussed this subject emotionally, has taken the example of the creation of the previous five state secondary schools. When we look at other county centres, all the five gymnasiums I've read here are using the former historical buildings that are now very proud of the city. The discussions at the state gymnasium in Paide have been quite controversial. It has also been discussed whether to establish it at all, and one powerful additional argument was that if we do it, we will do it the way we did it a century ago. After all, there was a school for girls or a school for boys. In fact, it is strange to follow this debate in different counties. A very similar discussion model has taken place elsewhere. Emotional decisions have been made to separate the gymnasium and break any traditions, then taken a step backwards. And one more argument has been this: but then we'll fix a historic building. This has been an additional argument throughout this debate. When the composition of the Government of the Republic changed, these discussions began very strongly again. The Ministry of Education and Research has promised that, in cooperation with representatives of cities, we will consider all options. Why did I give an example of Kohtla-Järve before? There were exactly the same arguments. As you know, in the meantime, Jõhvi Gymnasium also came. There were a lot of problems, also discussing the language of instruction and other subjects. And then at one point it was decided that Kohtla-Järve should still have a state gymnasium, and another consideration was given to the different options in which it should be located. And there was a very demolished school building, near which there are now some streets between them, and another school building is being renovated under a completely different measure, the basic school measure. And the good symbiosis of these two schools brings new added value. On the basis of this argument, the local community said that they were very sorry, that the heritage-protected building, which is a little far away, would not be renovated and a new house would be built instead, but that the added value of the very short distance in the form of both buildings, and the scale of the school building that arises there would be a little higher! It's worth a lot of weight. We let the local community decide that. Now, leaving all emotions aside for a moment, I'm trying to make it clear in response to this question that we're still considering the solution to Post Street. We are looking at the possibilities of the extension, because the renovation of the Post Street building is not a matter of paying for this building. I don't know what analysis Jürgen Ligi has read, but it's not a matter of excessive cost-effectiveness of construction, because there was also an extension to the vocational school. And there were other options. Other surfaces were also considered in the Paide, and I have also been very familiar with these calculations. The question is how much and what is wise to build on Post Street. The Ministry of Education and Research has announced that we are calculating different options. First, we wait for the results of the excavation. Then we will decide on the extent to which and what it is appropriate to do and whether there are other options so that there are no obstacles to the completion of the curriculum and such a normal association. Certain laboratories have been developed in the VET institution, which we certainly do not duplicate. There's a sports complex on the other side of Post Street, which I'm sure we won't duplicate. And thirdly, the city has a very good library, where there is now an adult upper secondary school, which we do not duplicate with our workshops either. There is also a youth centre that we do not duplicate. There is now a debate on the ground and we are putting great hopes to the future head of school. We hope that he will be able to think through Paide's entire urban space and come up with a plan for a state gymnasium that does not depend on one building but brings together the best practices available. If it turns out it would still be better if there was a building, we'll analyze that possibility. All these possibilities are on the table right now. We cannot decide on their feasibility today, in the Ministry of Education and Research it is possible to make a decision when we know what volume and at what price it is possible to build there. Architectural excavations are for the time being predictions. The heritage protection has said at one meeting that work of this magnitude is not possible, the second time it brings into play its conditions, which must all be visible there, and the next day it is a press conference, which says they will give up any conditions. So let's wait for those answers, and we'll probably come to a decision. With regard to the period of action up to 2023, we are now confident that this can be done. A very similar process is underway in Kuressaare, Rakvere and Harjumaa. We have not gone much further in other regions, but on the basis of the best real estate expertise available at the Ministry of Education and Research, we can say that this is completely real in 2022/2023.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U84	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U85	Thank you, Madam Secretary. It's pretty creepy listening to you. You talk endlessly about everything you've considered and make it look like you've never been weighed before. You had a decision, a project already launched, and all these aspects had been discussed before. The decision had fallen, the agreement was signed. You changed it. I can only ask you one question, which is why I'm asking you about numbers. I have the knowledge you knew the moment you went to change that decision. Tell me, which numbers did you use? You can't just say that you made a decision without knowing what it would cost and knowing what else to consider and how long you can talk about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U86	Thank you, good questioner! Your knowledge of the Ministry of Education and Research comes from the exact same specialists as my knowledge of the Ministry of Education and Research. These answers today have been prepared by the exact same people who all worked for the Ministry of Education and Research in your time as well. If the best specialists in the Ministry of Education and Research say that there is still a need to consider this, this and this, with all due respect, Mr Ligi, I assure you that these people have considered these matters very thoroughly in our house. And if they are not ready today to put not even indicative amounts on the table of the Minister of Education and Science, they must have a very important reason. It is also likely that the experience of the Ministry of Education and Research in setting up state secondary schools has increased very seriously over these years. These schools have become better and more appropriate, and decisions related to them have become smarter. I believe that, in the case of procurement, it has also been shown that solutions in terms of both square meters and sports, for example, how buildings can be used together, have improved significantly. Did I use numbers? I assure you, of course, but I also followed the recommendations of the specialists. Now, why did the situation turn out this way, all the decisions were made and locked, as you said? It is likely that education ministers have a different style. I didn't go to Paide with a message that if you don't sign this paper, the state gymnasium will come to Türi. I listened to the local community. I think that's where the biggest difference comes from.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U87	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U88	Thank you. Dear Minister, Alexander School building is also for sale in Põltsamaa. What is your attitude towards the fate of this historic building? Has the state acted as the best host so far, and is this sale really right?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U89	Thank you. It's a very sensitive subject. Today we are talking about such a great symbiosis here, and I understand that Mr. Ligi is fighting for such an association. Unfortunately, Põltsamaa did not form this association, and it is extremely unfortunate. Põltsamaa Vocational School and upper secondary school have had many forms of study that are nowhere else. For example, pre-vocational training groups in this form have not worked well and effectively. It's just people. The building of Aleksandrikool has indeed been on sale for quite a while, as organized by Riigi Kinnisvara AS. Is that right? From the point of view of Riigi Kinnisvara AS, yes. However, from the point of view of the object of heritage protection, this is certainly a cause for concern, as it is an extremely dignified historic building. I have discussed several times in Põltsamaa with representatives of the local community in this building what can be done there, how to use it in the education system. We didn't find a direct solution to that. Since it has not been found by the local community, the building is on sale. Unfortunately, our experience with the sites sold has been rather sad. There are a few success stories, but in general, when we look at the closure of schools for children with special needs and the sale of the relevant manor complexes, they have so far not been very good. It is also somewhat controversial from the point of view of educators when, in a manor or other large historical building, they try to run a school to keep the house as a cultural monument. So there's no good solution for this school building right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U90	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U91	Thank you. Good minister! I will ask a more general question alongside the issue of Paide State Gymnasium. This concerns the entire experience of building state secondary schools, namely the development of student mobility habits. How has the policy of creating state secondary schools and building them really affected the mobility habits of upper secondary school students? Can you tell me anything about these sports opportunities?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U92	Thank you. According to the specialists of the Ministry of Education and Research, the decision not to build sports buildings at state secondary schools within the framework of this measure was the only one. Otherwise, more or less half of these buildings would not be built, as the addition of the sports complex would make the total cost so much higher. This decision was based on purely monetary calculations. If a state secondary school is established in a county centre, then in general there are city-wide sports facilities in such centres and they can be used by upper secondary school students in the morning. All state secondary schools have confirmed that their children are guaranteed mobility classes. I have not carried out any separate research or analysis of this, I can say that based on their confirmation. If you look at where the state gymnasiums are located, we can see that they're all within a few hundred meters of the city's sports building. At the same time, such an arrangement has raised questions. For example, with the emergence of Narva's great state gymnasium, the city of Narva has raised the subject very strongly that they are not actually able to provide all 700 or 800 students with the systematic exercise opportunities arising from the schedule. Because of Narva, the subject has come back to the table. We have not yet reached the state secondary schools in Tallinn. Should it be the same in Tallinn? But if there is a new upper secondary school with 1,000 students, we cannot expect that the nearby general education school with its gym will be able to absorb such a large mass. Whether or not there are sports opportunities at an appropriate distance depends on the location. Mustamäe's more like it, downtown isn't. So, yes, in the case of these two cities, this issue has come up again. There's still no problem in county centers. For example, Rakvere has said that they have the conditions and that they could make their existing sports facilities available to the school, of course on the basis of rental contracts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U93	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U94	Ladies and gentlemen, It's a pretty depressing experience to see a minister filling time and space with words and nothing. All I found out about all this is that he thinks lying and stealing is okay. In order for public money to be transferred to its own electoral area, it is necessary to meet the interests of its party that we should simply be popular on the ground, not to have a policy that the state has not only agreed but which is dictated by a limited resource. As long as you can transfer more money to your constituency. All these questions have been answered in essence. We heard that sports halls are not usually built at state secondary schools, as if that was the question. The question was that the gym would have already existed in the old place by the hand and foot. We have also heard that we are not going to duplicate certain classes in a very interesting story, that is not yet happening! The question is that the professional classes would have been at the hand-foot, or vocational education centre. We have heard that we take account of archaeological and other historical aspects, that is all already discussed, that is part of the issue. That was one warning that it would go wrong if we replaced the state gymnasium with the restoration of a building, which, moreover, is privately owned. The current decision was to save a private owner from a real estate he couldn't do anything with. According to the preliminary estimates that Mailis Reps had when he made his decision, it's not 2.5 million, it's 6 million. He says there are no calculations. There's one thing that doesn't exist. Now this upper secondary school is made smaller: there are 250 places instead of 360 and it really needs to be clarified whether this proportion remains the same. I rather think that it would be easier to use existing infrastructure. Once upon a time, not once at this whole platoon! The Minister did not explain how he was given the reasons why two schools needed to be maintained. Who is responsible for the three times more expensive result that we now simply have to pay hundreds of thousands of additional maintenance costs each year? Construction's going to be two and a half times more expensive in the initial calculations, and we don't have any subsequent calculations. And this school will come later: the opening of the state gymnasium will be delayed for at least two years. That's what we're talking about! Everything takes too long, there are too many additional problems and there will be a worse result. Instead, the minister is telling us something completely different, he's talking about a more positive outcome. I asked you about proactivity, talk about it! He's talking about some positivity! Even the question rephrases! Indeed, state gymnasiums have been built as a rule without a gym, and indeed synergy works. With this first solution, these things are settled! Indeed, where possible, existing houses have been tried to be repaired, but in this case the house already existed. This repetition is a complete additional task. Repeating a private house at the price of a lower state gymnasium is stealing. This is not responsible for managing the country. Of course, it is a popular decision on the ground, but of course there will be votes for it, but it is called corruption. There is talk of cooperation with the community that everything has been done in cooperation with the community, and then there is a complaint that I would have said that if there was no decision, the state gymnasium would be opened at Türi. I never said that. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U95	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U96	I have reached an agreement with the community that it will come to Paide, that it will be better if it operates in a vocational education centre and that a private owner or city can fix this other house itself. We signed this agreement. At the moment, the money would have been enough to fix the two houses, including the state high school, except it's the other money. To talk about the experience in different places in Estonia, it is so nice to move the story! But the municipality of Rae was specifically denied their state gymnasium. We had an independent study of how many state gymnasiums will come, and Rae Municipality was the one who is currently missing because it is said that the money no longer exists. Of course, if three to four million are to be hugged for the party's sake, then the place where Mailis Reps does not have voters will be left behind. This is corruption! That is how I have been assured from Rae municipality: we were told that there was no money and that school would not come. And that's not a question mark sentence, that's an exclamation point. That was what they had been told, and that is how these sums have run out at the moment. In conclusion: yes, I have confirmed my suspicions and the reproach remains. People think that when they get the money pump, they have to pump the money with their own interests, not with the interests of society and education in mind. And Mailis Reps confirmed that in his report.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U97	The Minister has the right to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U98	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! At this point, I would like to confirm that I have not tried and intend not to do so with any procurement. That's for sure! And I certainly have nothing to do with the procurement of Paide State High School if they are ever launched. No one has planned to catch the votes of the personal voters in this Parliament in this form, I hope. We are still watching the school network across Estonia. When the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act was passed, when it was decided that the state secondary school must come to every county centre, the Reform Party, which had been operating for a very long time, hopefully did not plan how many voters there are in one county centre or another. The aim was to have a good education available to all students. And that's exactly what we're doing. In 2018, we will open three state secondary schools. Neither in the case of Rapla State High School nor in the case of the others, today we spoke in the Committee on Culture about further plans in Kuressaare and Rakvere, it is still possible to plan exactly what the necessary sums will be. Local councils, including future councils, certainly want to discuss very thoroughly whether the seats offered by the previous council are appropriate. In Rakvere, for example, this subject has created a great deal of emotion. As far as Harju County and Tallinn are concerned, it is possible to move forward in this form. When the activities planned on the ground in all counties under the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act have reached a certain stage, we can tell whether state secondary schools can also be built in Tallinn and elsewhere in Harjumaa. With this best knowledge, we also mentioned today in the Committee on Culture how far we have come with it. But I'm sure we'll come back again and again in this room to the issues of state secondary schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-16_U100	After hitting the hammer, it is possible to register for speaking in a free microphone. That's not what you want. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this working day. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 5.29 p.m.
