ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 3rd working week Tuesday session of the VI plenary session. Today, we all have reason to congratulate Marianne Mikko and Taavi on her birthday, wherever she is now. [[Let's hear it.]] The microphone shall be open for handing over the preclaims and enquiries. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Last week, too, Mr Remo Holsmer had a birthday, but he was not congratulated here. Why such discrimination?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U3	I was expecting yesterday... [[Let's hear it.]] I would even dare to continue this line: I was looking forward to Kalle Laanet last night, who had a birthday, but he didn't come... [[Let's hear it.]] Well, I guess you can't start working better. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U4	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, We can still clap, birthdays are important things. Congratulations from me too, Mrs. Mikko! It's my pleasure! I hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu on behalf of five members of the Riigikogu. The signatories include Jaanus Kariliid, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Artur Talvik, Chairman of the Free Party Group, Martin Helme, Chairman of the Conservative People's Party Group, here speaker and Toomas Paur, Member of the Centre Party Group. The title of the draft decision is 'Accounting and payment of the actual financial compensation by the Republic of Estonia for the claims of the customers of North-Estonian Bank and the Baltic Ühispank, which are linked to accounts frozen in the former foreign economic bank of the Soviet Union'. The title is long but precise. In short, on 22 October 2010, the Circuit Court ordered compensation for certificate holders who suffered damage due to the freezing of accounts in the foreign economic bank of the Soviet Union. The State did not comply with this decision. The State was ordered to pay an amount of EUR 3200 by a court decision, which it did pay, thereby recognising its responsibility for the sums of money involved, but so far these claims are still on the basis of certificates. We consider it extremely important that this issue continues to be on the table and that the actual victims receive their damages even 25 years later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U5	Eerik-Niles Kross.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U6	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to submit a draft statement from the Riigikogu and, in addition, an inquiry. I'll be brief to fit into the timeline. Many of you must have noticed that yesterday there was a referendum on the independence of Kurdish Iran in Iraq. The Kurds have been waiting a hundred years for this. Everything went very smoothly. There are 3.9 million voters, 3.48 million people cast their votes and 76% initially supported independence. In this regard, I have a draft statement that is balanced in substance, calling for respect for Iraq's territorial integrity as well as for an understanding of the Kurdish aspirations. We hope in this that the process will continue to proceed calmly. I hope this hall supports it. Secondly, four members of the Reform Party have an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kadri Samson, regarding the investments carried out by EVR Cargo, a state company, in the Russian Federation. We have a number of questions, perhaps the most serious of which is the last of them: 'Is it true that a state company in your area of government has purchased 500 wagons from Russia at a price higher than that offered by five companies in the competition without a decision by the Council and the general meeting? ' There are quite a few serious questions. We hope that this questioning will not lead to too serious investigations, but at the same time we want honest answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U7	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U8	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of eight members of the Free Party, I will refer an inquiry to Mr Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. This is an inquiry into changes in the management of the sickness fund. As we all know, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund is a very important organisation where the decisions taken concern all of us, every Estonian. In its decisions, the Council has an impact on health care, access to health care and quality throughout Estonia. The government has sent a draft law amending the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act to the coordination circle, which aims to reduce the number of members of the Health Insurance Fund's Supervisory Board from 15 to 7. This is justified by the inefficiencies of the large council, blurred responsibilities, conflicts of interest, lack of full knowledge-skills for its members. This is all a hindrance to good decision-making. At the same time, the clarification of the changes has failed both in the explanatory memorandum and in further communication. It has not been possible to clarify this need unambiguously and clearly. In this way, doctors are dissatisfied with the decision, claiming that medical competence in the Council is being reduced, decisions are becoming too political, etc. In order to understand all this better, we have asked the Minister four questions. With the time he's got to come to this remote control, he'll hopefully be able to answer all these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U9	On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and two questions and the Management Board acts with them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. Incoming check, please! There are 91 members of the Riigikogu. Peter Ernits, is this a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U10	Yeah. Why are we discriminated against by my colleague Pomerants? When we congratulated Kalle Laanet, Marko looked at it very sadly. It was his birthday day earlier. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U11	I think that we all have reason to congratulate each other on the fact that we went through the end of the world on Saturday so easily. [[Let's hear it.]] A lot of experts predicted that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U12	The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. There is no wish to speak. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 445. Are we ready to vote? I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 445. Please take a stand and vote. 83 delegates voted in favour of the draft, with one abstention, and no one opposed it. [[Applause and cheer on the balcony.]] The Act amending the Law on the Protection of Animals, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted with applause.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U13	The second item is the first reading of draft 501 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Special Committee against Corruption' submitted by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Priit Sibula, member of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U14	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Based on § 90 (1) (2) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, the IRL Group initiated a draft. Its content is very simple. Since Kalle Muul's mandate as a Member of Parliament expired, she can no longer be a member of the Special Committee on Corruption. Therefore, the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance proposes that the IRL Group Mart Nutt be represented there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U15	Ladies and gentlemen, It is also possible to ask questions to both rapporteurs. This is not recommended in the first report. I would like to ask for a second presentation of the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Pomerants.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U16	Good morning, Mr. Chairman. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the matter on 26 September and found that I could be a waitress. It is all in favour of the change being made in the proposed form. I would like to ask for support in the final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U17	No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I will close the negotiations without really opening them. No amendments were tabled on draft 501, so we can go to the final vote. I vote on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of a Special Committee against Corruption' presented by the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Please take a stand and vote. 70 members of the population voted in favour of the draft, there were no abstentions, and no one voted against either. The draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of a Special Committee against Corruption' submitted by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U18	The third item is the amendment of draft 502 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Constitution of the Riigikogu's Trouble Committee for the resolution of the population crisis' by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Priit Sibula, member of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U19	One more time, I'm gonna have to come to the speaker's desk. It is now a simple request from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to change our representative in this committee. If so far there was the representative of the IRL Group, Helir-Valdor Seeder, we hope that after today's decision, we will be represented by the Riigikogu on the Trouble Committee to resolve the population crisis in Maire Aunaste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U20	You have at least one question. Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U21	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I understand this exchange makes sense. Mr Seeder's views on how the population crisis could be resolved, I know. But can you tell me what the Aunas' views on solving the population crisis will be like to replace him?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U22	Thank you. It will certainly be possible to find out when this committee comes to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U23	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I think that in the group you have, however, discussed the assessment of the Commission's current activities by Mr Seeder, who is leaving the Commission. How effective do you think this job has been?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U25	Thank you. I do not remember how lively this discussion was, but since this committee has been formed and each group has one representative in the committee, the IRL Group wanted to appoint a representative there in particular. I think that the subject is topical in Estonian society anyway, and in order to draw attention to the seriousness of this problem, this committee of problems was formed in its time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U26	No more questions for the waitress. I would like to remind you that it will then be possible to enter into negotiations on behalf of the political groups. Marko Pomerants, please! You're presenting a report from the lead committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U27	Hello! The commission also discussed this issue on 26 September and came to the conclusion that Helir-Valdor Seeder had to be replaced against the Maire Aunaste. This is where the views of Maire Aunaste and Helir-Valdor Seeder were asked about them. There was also a question of why Maire Aunaste was this new candidate. The answer is very simple. If we're usually used to asking what the party could give us, then Maire asked me what else I could give the party. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U28	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U29	Thank you, Mr. Pomerants. I do not understand why the Riigikogu has to discuss the internal affairs of the IRL here. You're going to take turns on the remote and change your terms. But since I heard you want to answer the question, I'll meet you. Tell me what the legacy of Helir-Valdor Seeder in this committee is! How has this affected population processes, and what new ideas have been developed here in the Riigikogu for the regeneration of the population?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U30	Helir-Valdor Seeder is known to be a conservative who has advocated traditional methods in his life. He has certainly put forward these views in the Commission as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U31	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U32	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'll take it from here. What methods has Helir-Valdor Seeder's successor used?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U33	Thanks! This is not what we discussed in the Commission. I, on the other hand, am the waitress discussed in this committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U34	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. The manager will reflect on how wise it is to start a working day with applause. Now the representatives of the political groups have the opportunity to enter into negotiations. I don't see that wish. There were no amendments to the 502 bill, so we can go to the final vote. I will put to the final vote the amendment of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Construction of the Riigikogu Problem Committee for the resolution of the population crisis' presented by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu took part in the final vote. They were all in favour of this draft decision. Draft 502 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Riigikogu' to resolve the population crisis' submitted by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U35	The fourth item is the first reading of draft 503 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's Trouble Committee on the Development of State Reform, submitted by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Priit Sibula, member of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U36	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm here on the remote for the last time in front of you today. On this occasion, the IRL Group calls for an alternate to be replaced by a committee set up to develop developments in national reform. Since Mr Valmar Kisler's mandate as a Member of Parliament ended in connection with his appointment as a minister, we ask that Mr Pomerants be appointed in his place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U37	No questions for the waitress. I would ask the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Marko Pomerants, to come and speak on behalf of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U38	Thanks! The Governing Commission also adopted a decision on this issue on 26 September. I don't know if I'm supposed to reduce myself, this question concerns my identity, but since Siim Valmar Kisler is my alternate at the Ministry of the Environment, I have to replace him here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U39	No questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. There were no amendments to the 503 bill, so we can go to the final vote. I vote on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Riigikogu' to amend the Riigikogu's Trouble Committee for the development of developments in state reform' presented by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Please take a stand and vote. 69 delegates voted in favour of the draft, no one was against or impartial. Draft 503 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's Trouble Committee on the Constitution of the Riigikogu to develop developments in state reform, submitted by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U40	The fifth item is the first reading of the draft Act amending § 27 of the Pre-School Children's Institution Act, initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please present a speech chair for Riigikogu member Jaak Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U41	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On 5 June this year, the Conservative People's Party Group initiated a draft amendment to § 27 of the Pre-School Children's Institution Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U42	I'm sorry, dear waitress. Please pay attention to the waitress. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U43	According to the draft law, § 1 (3) of the Act is amended, which would read as follows: "The other costs (management costs of the child institution, salaries and social contributions of staff and the costs of educational resources) are partly covered by the resources of the rural municipality or city budget and, at the decision of the municipality or city council, by the parents. The proportion of a child covered by parents may not exceed 10 per cent of the minimum wage established by the Government of the Republic. Since the third child in the family, there is no part to be covered by the parents. " According to the Bill, this law would enter into force on August 1, 2018. The aim of the draft, as outlined in the explanatory memorandum, is to reduce disparities in the regions. According to the law, the place fee for kindergarten can be up to 20% of the national minimum wage. In a large number of places, it is already 10% of the minimum wage rate, in some areas, such as Tartu, but 15% and 20% of the minimum wage rate in a couple of municipalities. Since Estonia's average kindergarten pay rate is around 10%, it is not justified that there are so many scissors between different municipalities. The proposed amendment is also directly linked to the annual increase in the minimum wage. It has risen quite significantly, but therefore the place fee for kindergarten is automatically rising, and this means a considerable cost for parents. According to our bill, since the third child in the family, there would be no part to be covered by the parents. In many municipalities this is already guaranteed, but this could be the rule for all municipalities. I will, for example, bring some municipalities who have managed to keep the place fee for kindergarten very low. Paide accounts for 7,5% of the state's minimum wage, 9% in Kuressaare, 10% in Viljandi. In the city of Võru, the place fee for kindergarten is not linked to the minimum wage rate, but is simply EUR 17 per child. However, as I have already noted, there are several municipalities, such as the municipality of Kiili, which applies a maximum rate of 20%. We believe that this is a good and necessary draft, the entry into force of which, as a law, would also support young families economically and give confidence, so that the third child would not miss out because it would not be able to pay the place fee for the kindergarten, which could be EUR 60 to 70 per month. I'd be happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U44	The first question is asked by Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You also introduced your draft law in the Committee on Culture, and there we had a discussion about exactly what I am now asking you to hear from the Chamber. How many municipalities are there, and what are those who apply a rate of 10% to a maximum rate of 20%? You already called Dragonfly, but we had more to talk about.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U46	According to the reply of the representative of the Ministry, 85% of the municipalities have a place fee for the kindergarten of up to 10% of the minimum wage. Six municipalities have implemented a rate of 15 to 20%, while two municipalities have applied a rate of 20%. If I remember correctly, it's Kiili Parish and Saue City. Maybe I'm wrong, the questioner might be more specific later, but I think it's just Dragonfly and Saue. Thus, 15% of the municipalities are those who would be directly affected by this law and who would be forced to lower the rate of the place fee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U47	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U48	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You say in the explanatory memorandum that the place fee depends primarily on the political decisions of the local government. You were talking about Kili municipality and Saue, but in which political party-led municipalities do you think that kindergarten pay is too high?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U49	Thank you. The only municipality in which I can specifically say who is in charge is the city of Tartu, where the Reform Party is in power and the kindergarten place fee is 15% of the minimum wage. As regards the municipality of Kiili and the city of Saue, it should be addressed directly to the leaders of these municipalities to explain what political parties are in the coalition and why the minimum wage for kindergarten has been set at 20%.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U50	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U51	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! I noticed an explanatory statement on the effects of the law. You are saying that if there is a potential deficit in local governments, it is likely to occur, then 'the revenue and expenditure in the budget should be optimised'. If you don't mind, why don't you open up these optimization options a little bit more clearly? What do you think you're looking at? When preparing the draft, have you studied why these costs are higher in Tartu, Kiilis or Tallinn? What do you recommend to these municipalities in particular?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U52	Thank you, good questioner! This is not stated in the draft, and it would be impossible to highlight the nuances of all the municipalities on how to optimise costs. However, I can mention some municipalities where the purpose of this draft, i.e. supporting young families and encouraging the growth of the population, has not been the focus of the allocation of funds. For example, five years ago, a separate deputy mayor's seat was created in Viljandi because it was foreseen by a political agreement to create a new coalition. The question is whether this was a well-founded budgetary expenditure. Instead of setting up an assistant mayor's seat, the same amount could have been reduced by just 1%. So the situation varies considerably between municipalities and it would be impossible to indicate in the explanatory memorandum where the costs should be optimised, either in Saue city or in Kiili municipality or somewhere else. But if we see that 85% of the municipalities have managed to keep this rate below 10%, then logically it can be concluded that 15% of the remaining municipalities should also be able to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U53	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U54	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The subject is very topical. That's the question I'm asking. Have you ever thought about such an idea? It doesn't overlap with your subject today to free the oldest group in kindergarten at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U55	Thank you, good questioner! This is a constructive idea for which an amendment can certainly be tabled after the first reading, if the good hall allows for the second reading of the draft. This issue can be introduced here, or a separate draft can be launched, on which, I believe, all the political groups are willing to debate and, if possible, to approve it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U56	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U57	Thank you. Good waitress! I think you've written the explanatory statement yourself. It states that the place fee depends on the political decision of the municipality. Up to now, the EKRE and the People's League have been of the opinion that the municipality can make decisions. This is referred to in other words as autonomy of the municipality. Tell me what other political decision-making rights you want to take away from the local governments! And what about the Riigikogu? This, too, is now a political decision. Is it something very dirty when we vote for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U58	Thank you, Reverend Asker! The Conservative People's Party has always advocated self-determination of local governments. However, as a former minister, you will understand very well that the upper limit of the place fee in kindergarten currently depends, according to the law, on the minimum wage rate applicable throughout the country, regardless of the political will of the local governments, regardless of the coalition that is set every four years. That is why it is important for us to decide on the level of pay: whether we set the upper limit of the kindergarten pay at 10% or 20% of the minimum wage. The current situation is that 85% of municipalities have a day-care allowance of up to 10% of the minimum wage. Thus, there are only 15% of municipalities that take advantage of the possibility to charge a higher fee. When it comes to centralisation and the right to self-determination in local governments, the Estonian Conservative People's Party has never approved that the upper secondary school network is in place at national level and it is not possible for local governments to decide whether they want to continue with one or more secondary schools or whether a state upper secondary school is coming. The country tells us what to build and where to build. This is one example of centralisation. So the first part of your question, which concerned the self-determination of the municipalities, was entirely appropriate. But with this bill, we want to equalise the treatment of parents and improve the livelihood of families. The minimum wage is the same in Tartu city, Tallinn city and Võru municipality, but the place fee for kindergarten is different.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U59	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U60	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! This is not directly the subject of this bill, but I ask you this: how justified do you, as the author and waitress of this bill, have to tie the place fee for kindergarten to the minimum wage? In Viljandi, for example, this was the case, when these things were tied, the place fee actually increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U61	Thank you, good questioner! This topic was also on the table in the Committee on Culture. We discussed whether it is justified to link it to an annual variable factor, which is the minimum wage rate, or whether it could be identified as some other factor to regulate it. The existing law has linked this remuneration to the minimum wage rate and our aim is to equalise the situation in local governments. That is why we have proposed. But, of course, if there is a better idea or if there is a better solution, which has been done in the interests of parents and families in particular, it is to be welcomed. It is nice to have a better system in place so that the costs of parents are as low as possible and, at the same time, to ensure that kindergartens are managed in municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U62	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U63	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! The explanatory memorandum states that the aim is to increase and increase the number of families with many children. Here's my question. Paide has a seat fee of 7.5% of the minimum wage, half the minimum wage in Tartu, or 15% of the minimum wage, and 20% in Kiili municipality. Do you have any information about the last four years about how many lives have increased in Paide, Tartu and Kiili municipality and how many families of many children have increased?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U64	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Iivet has in mind the last sentence of § 1 (3) to be amended by the bill: 'From the third child in the family there is no part to be covered by the parents. " It is now very difficult to compare the existing situation with a possible scenario for the future, but of course it is a legitimate way to draw attention. We could really analyze it and ask the Ministry for data for second reading how much better families can manage in municipalities with more favourable conditions for a second and a third child or even a free place in kindergarten, compared to families in municipalities with 20% or 15% of the minimum wage in kindergarten and where each child has to pay. I'm sure these data would be very interesting to look at, and I think we could have them on our desk for the next reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U65	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Knowing you and other members of the EKRE's attitude towards Russian language, you do not talk about it, and knowing your attitude towards people speaking Russian as a electorate, they should not vote, but I will try carefully to clarify. Does this proposal, which is included in your bill, apply to all kindergartens or only to Estonian-language kindergartens? If for all, what is this indicator: is it a certain European liberalism or proletarian internationalism? How would you appreciate that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U67	Thank you, Reverend Asker! The first part of your question was very general and subjective, with a lot of lies embedded in it. Very many of our members sometimes speak Russian and may also come to talk to you in Russian. But this is the case in the off-duty period, as this hall is spoken in the national language, or Estonian. And there are quite a few Russian-speaking people in the EKRE membership, some of them even running for local elections. As far as our attitude towards the Russian-speaking people is concerned, we have nothing against the vote of a Russian-speaking person who has been able to take a national language and citizenship test and wants to be an Estonian patriot. This is perfectly normal and the same rights apply to all people, regardless of their origin or their home language. As we have always said, the same rules apply to everyone: everyone has the same obligations and the same rights if they are citizens of the Republic of Estonia. The same principle applies to kindergartens. According to this draft, there is no difference in the language of education in kindergarten. But in the future, this law would hopefully be the case in the near future only in Estonian-language kindergartens, as all kindergartens are in Estonian. I hope this, above all, in the interests of the children, so that they have a clear national language from a low point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U68	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U69	Thank you. Good waitress, please focus on the question! I did not get an answer to my first question and I will repeat it in another wording. Tell me why your political decision to reduce the autonomy of local governments is a better decision than the decision of the local authorities themselves in their area of competence. I'm talking about kindergarten pay. Why is your political decision noble, but the government's is a problem, as you write in the explanatory memorandum?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U70	Thank you, Reverend Asker! We consider this a legitimate political decision because we want to regulate this problem throughout the country. At the moment, the local governments have been given too high a limit for setting the place fee for kindergarten. The minimum wage rises every year throughout Estonia, not only in Kiili municipality or Võru municipality. That's one reason. The second reason is that, if there is too much slack in this provision, so that in one municipality this rate is 7.5% and in another municipality 20% of the minimum wage, in four years' time, when the new municipality is in power and there is a need to find new sources of budget, this is one very good place where revenue can be guaranteed to the budget. But this is not the place for which it would be justified. It is not justified to serve at the expense of children and families. That is our political motivation. That is why we consider it justified to regulate it nationally and to reduce the autonomy of local authorities to play too much with the place rate of kindergarten. This is a very specific answer to you, hopefully it will satisfy you. I guess we've heard a lot worse answers than any minister has been on the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U71	Toomas Jürgenstein.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U72	Good Jack! The Commission was talking about this, but I will still come back to my question. Since the third child in the family, the bill does not cover the parents. Kids grow up. The fact that three children are in kindergarten at the same time happens, but not often. Is this exemption even if one child is in school and two in kindergarten or two in school and one in kindergarten? How's that supposed to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U73	Thank you, Reverend Asker! It was really under discussion in the Commission and raised questions. According to the wording of the draft, this applies from the third child in the family. This means that if, for example, one child is in the third grade, i.e. no longer in kindergarten, then the third child, who is only in kindergarten, does not have to pay the place fee. According to this bill, that is true. Whether this is right or wrong is the point of discussion. I am not saying that I have the only right approach to this issue. This provision may as well be clarified. But it would be a good idea if there wasn't a place payment for a parent in a third-child family. If you, my good colleague, are going to make an amendment, I hope we can discuss it further.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U74	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U75	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, we read: "In addition, it promotes growth and increases the number of families with many children. ' Tonight you should have some statistics to take. In four rural areas, these are Tarvastu, Pühalepa, Kanepi and Kolga-Jaani, the number of children should have exploded and the number of families with three children should be high. Is that right? Are there any statistics that can be pointed out?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U76	Thank you, Reverend Asker! This is a philosophical question. For example, we can guess how many families have not moved from Kolga-Jaani municipality because it is easier for them to put a third child in a local day care centre and they have not had to move to Viljandi city or a bigger centre, Tartu or Tallinn. There can be no precise statistics on this. There can be no statistics that, for example, the birth rate in the municipality has increased by 1.1% because of the higher benefits in the municipality than in the neighbouring municipality. There's no statistics like that, I found out. No one knows exactly whether a small kindergarten place fee is the reason why you have been left to live in your municipality. Perhaps one of the parents has a more profitable job in a small area, so there is no point in moving to another municipality because of the job. However, this is one measure and it follows the same logic as the regulation that, from the third child, the state pays higher child benefit. That's the question. The country wants to support families rich in children. This would be one small step forward in order to ensure that Estonia's average income is at least 2.1 children per woman at some point and that our population does not decrease.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U77	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U78	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! I have a suggestion that we should talk a little bit more about the money. Your report may have given the impression that these, if I understood correctly, six municipalities, where the parent's share currently exceeds 10% of the minimum wage, want to get rich at the expense of their parents, hire vice-city heads or do anything. The current law also allows local governments to apply specialisms, to exempt parents from all or part of the place fee, for example, the third child of the family. And all of this, according to my records, is done a lot. Moreover, the parental participation fee does not represent the majority, but the smaller part, of all the costs incurred by municipalities in kindergarten. Have you seen how many of these benefits are currently being applied to these six municipalities, too? You're not breaking through an open door right now, are you?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U79	Thank you. One part of the answer to this question has already been heard here before. The fact that 85% of municipalities apply a tax rate of up to 10% of the state's minimum wage shows that most municipalities do not actually see it as a major source from which to implement their own budget at the expense of parents. There are very few who use a higher rate. At the same time, it shows that they can therefore optimise costs. This example of the assistant mayor was specifically the answer to your question as to what an austerity point could be in the budget in order to allow for a lower rate of kindergarten pay. This was one example that everything depends on the municipality. I do not know in particular the situation of Kiili rural municipality and their budget lines, where money can be found for this purpose, at all, how to optimise expenditure. However, I took the example of the city of Viljandi, where a political decision was made that could not have been made. This could have saved the budget money. It was just an example. You are certainly right in the fact that a large number of municipalities already apply incentives, including making distinctions from a third child. Many municipalities pay 50% less than the second child. As has been said, 85% of municipalities apply a rate of up to 10% of the minimum wage. This is a rule by which most municipalities have made concessions and brought the place rate of kindergarten as low as possible. However, there are also exceptions, and the difference can be shriekingly large. The purpose of our draft is that the inhabitants of any municipality should not be in a worse position. This is particularly important in families where parents' income may be the minimum wage. That is the purpose of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U80	The Dark One.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U81	Thank you. The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu has, of course, discussed the problems of kindergartens frequently and in different aspects. It turns out that local governments have different problems: there are long day-care queues, where the pay of teachers is a problem, etc. The local government has tried to solve them in the way that is appropriate in their locality. But I have a completely different question. Once Jaak Madison was also a member of the Committee on Culture and he was familiar with what was said in the committee. At present, it tends to be that you have found a button and think it includes a suit like this, or even a certain apartment or a house. In fact, carving on one small detail is a flagrant violation of the principle of local decision-making and subsidiarity. The Committee on Culture has not discovered fraudsters in its study of this issue. We have only discovered municipalities that are trying to solve their problems. Don't you want to come back to the Committee on Culture to keep up with all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U82	I realized that throughout this whole minute there was finally a question of whether I would like to come back to the Committee on Culture. Yes, I do. I really do! I really liked the Committee on Culture. Our trouble and tragedy is that there are always ten committees, plus the Committee on European Affairs, but there are seven members of our group. I think you might be able to think about your proposal. The administrative reform on the table of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is now over, and this reform was one of the reasons why I had to go to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Therefore, going to the Committee on Culture is a very sensible idea. Perhaps I will be sitting in this committee again before the end of this term.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U83	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U84	Thank you, dear waitress. There's a mismatch in your answers. You're talking about 85% of the local governments already pay less than 10% of the minimum wage, but you're saying that kindergarten pay should equal the place fee. What you're saying is that kindergarten pay should be 10% of the minimum wage. Those who now pay less than this should, as if, start to pay equally to everyone else, perhaps more. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U85	Should equalise the situation throughout the country. There are too many differences now. In one municipality, this rate is 7.5% of the minimum wage, in the other 20%. At the same time, the ratio on which this remuneration is based, i.e. the minimum wage, is the same throughout Estonia. As we can see, the Estonian average is already 10%. Equality means that more or less that 10% of the price will remain. However, some municipalities, such as Võru Municipality, can offer this service even more favourably.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U86	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U87	Thank you! Good waitress! Can you tell us what kindergarten care facilities have? I myself have been a member of the Tallinn Ladybug Kindergarten Board for 12 years, and I know exactly what opportunities the Council has. Please describe, as the initiator of the draft, the possibilities available to the kindergarten board on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U88	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Since I don't have such a wealth of experience as you do for 12 years, I don't have such a wealth of knowledge as you do. I would be very grateful if you could, using your knowledge, put forward a proposal to amend this draft or come to our group and explain to us the influence of the Council of Careers in organising the work of kindergartens. However, the question of the board of trustees has not been addressed here either, that the law that we are amending is not concerned with the proportion of the work of the collections in determining the place fee for the kindergarten. However, if there is anything that can be improved by regulating the work of the caretakers, welcome, we will be happy to listen!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U89	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U90	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Is the comparison with Viljandi related to the fact that you are running for office this time in Viljandi, even though you do not live there? It seems a little incompetent to me, and I'm asking what your ratings are based on. In fact, there have been two auxiliary mayors in Viljandi through the ages. One of them is the so-called hard side, the other is the soft side. Another assistant mayor has been responsible for social, cultural and educational affairs, including pre-school childcare facilities and civil society organisations. How did you come to know that a new assistant mayor was hired by increasing the day care pay?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U91	Thank you, Reverend Asker! If you would like to visit me in Viljandi, please: New Street 16. Welcome! So your first statement was a direct lie. Second, why I've been talking about Viljandi. I think Viljandi is a very important city, which is often left in the shadows somehow. And Viljandi is a very good example to point out a percentage that is a national average. So I think this is a very appropriate example. My running for office anywhere in the municipality has absolutely nothing to do with it. I would like to see how many people in Viljandi are currently watching the session of the Riigikogu live in order to monitor the handling of this bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U92	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Listening to your answers, I ask for a clarification. You mentioned several times that the Pre-school Children's Institution Act is intended to amend § 1, but I read here that § 27 (3) is amended. So what's right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U94	It was my fault. Thank you for specifying that. I hurriedly answered, too quickly crossed the text with my eyes. We wish to amend § 27 (3). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U95	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U96	Thank you! Good waitress! I do not want to be unfair, but one of your group members has been the mayor of Saue. He should obviously be very competent on all these issues. That's why I support Aadu Black's position that you're trying to sew a jacket around the button right now. In the same way, I agree with Andres Ammas's comment. That door you're breaking in from, it's really open.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U97	Thank you, good questioner! That's the answer to the first half of your line. Our group has been a mayor, but such decisions are taken by the council in the municipality. The mayor must implement the decisions of the council. There is both executive power and legislative power. So you cannot directly ask the mayor why your municipality has a higher rate of kindergarten pay than the average in the country. As far as breaking into an open door is concerned, as I have said here many times, very many municipalities are making concessions from the second child. 85% of municipalities apply a local rate of up to 10% of the national minimum wage. This is not an open door break-in if we are trying to improve the situation of families, especially young parents, in municipalities with a place rate of 20% of the minimum wage in the country. In our opinion, this is not a break-in through an open door; it is an improvement in the situation of these people. But it is not up to this Chamber to decide whether or not it is an important issue for their families to cope with.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U98	No further questions for the rapporteur. Heljo Pikhof, Member of the Committee on Culture, will make a presentation on behalf of the Steering Committee. But before Henn Põllaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U99	Thank you. Since Mr Kruusimäe referred to me when he asked his question, I would like to say a small reply. Indeed, I am a former mayor, and there was a kindergarten seat fee legally allowed for 20% of the minimum wage, the rest paid by the city. We consider it extremely important to support families, children. What else is the future of the Estonian state if not our own children, all of us! In this sense, it is quite vulgar to ask such, I would say, really provocative questions and to do a circus. But thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U100	I would like to remind you that, in the case of negotiations, a rejoinder is possible if either the name is mentioned or the subject which one of us represents is clearly mentioned. All right! Heljo Pikhof, please, your report!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! On Monday, 18 September, in the Committee on Culture, we discussed as an item on the agenda the draft Act amending § 27 of the Pre-School Children's Institution Act, which was initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, 478. All members of the Riigikogu, the lawyer of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, Hardi Rikand, and Tiina Peterson, the chief expert of the General Education Department took part in the discussion. Jaak Madison, the representative of the initiators of the bill, presented a draft aimed at reducing the financial burden on families where preschool children are growing. According to the draft, the place fee per child in kindergarten may not exceed 10% of the minimum wage established by the Government of the Republic. According to the current law, the place fee for kindergarten may be up to 20% of the minimum wage established by the Government of the Republic, but there are multiple differences in different areas of Estonia. In order to reduce large differences in place fees, it makes sense to lower the current ceiling, as the representative of the initiators of the draft states. The current situation also nullifies the benefits of a higher minimum wage, as the place fee for kindergarten will automatically increase in the event of wage increases. Heljo Pikhof asked whether the place fee for kindergarten could be decoupled from the minimum wage and what are the municipalities that also charge the place fee for families with many children. Jaak Madison replied that he did not have any information on how many municipalities were granted a discount from the third child. In his view, the decoupling of the remuneration from the minimum wage would be possible, but in this case another component must be established. Mr Jürgenstein asked about the wording of the draft, bearing in mind the formulation of the 'parents' share of one child' and 'from the third child in the family'. Jaak Madison acknowledged that the provision can be interpreted in various ways and should be specified as follows: 'Three children must be of kindergarten age. ' According to Krista Aru, Estonian municipalities want the best for their children. He asked for a possible signal from the draft that the State did not trust the municipalities. According to Jaak Madison's reply, the state also wants the best and equal population policy influence across Estonia. It is the task of the State to ensure that local governments do not be tempted to take the place fee as a budget source. Aadu Must asked about the position of the Estonian Conservative People's Party that the local government is not a good master. Jaak Madison confirmed that this was not the position of EKRE. On the contrary, municipalities must have more power of self-determination, and this must be accompanied by more budget money. Madison added that as the place fee for kindergarten is regulated by law and linked to the minimum wage, the EKRE wishes to reduce the existing differences in municipalities. Laine Randjärv asked about a possible situation in which the municipality did not want to apply the place fee at all. Jaak Madison replied that according to the bill, you can also exempt the place fee. Aadu Must asked about the municipalities, which do not have to pay the place fee. According to Tiina Peterson, there are four municipalities such as Tarvastu, Pühalepa, Kanepi, Kolga-Jaani. According to Heljo Pikhof, lowering the maximum to 10% of the minimum wage does not improve the situation. If the place fee is automatically linked to the minimum wage, the place fee shall be increased every time the minimum wage rises. And the minimum wage has grown exponentially in recent years. If the place fee is not linked to the minimum wage, the annual increase in the place fee becomes uncomfortable for the municipality. By raising this, the members of the council must be prepared to look their voters in the eye. Pikhof also drew attention to the subject of private day care centres. In many municipalities where pre-schoolers do not have pre-school positions, parents pay more for a private day care place or care service. Jaak Madison replied that the bill would rather reduce the risk that a parent could have a exponential increase in the place fee for kindergarten each year. In addition, the EKRE has a positive attitude towards both citizens' initiatives and the development of private business. Krista Aru asked about the municipalities where kindergarten place fees are 20% of the minimum wage. Jaak Madison explained that in Tallinn, the place fee paid by parents amounts to 12.2% of the minimum wage established by the Government of the Republic and 15% of the minimum wage in Tartu. According to Tiina Peterson, the Government of the Republic decided not to support this draft at its meeting on 29 June this year. The Pre-school Children's Institution Act stipulates that the municipality is responsible for creating kindergarten places. Local authorities are also left with the right to differentiate the amount of the place fee. All that concerns the granting of benefits to certain groups, based on the socio-economic situation of families or the number of children, lies within the competence of the municipality. It is very important that decisions relating to the availability or quality of pre-school education are made by the local government. Ms Peterson added that the draft did not reveal what the problem would be addressed and whether the proposed measure would solve it. In a large number of local government units, the rate of remuneration is already lower than the threshold set out in the draft, or separate benefits have been applied to families of many children, as well as for socio-economic reasons. In addition, from the point of view of the Government of the Republic, we can read that the Estonian Education Information System 2016/2017. According to the academic year, the average parental participation fee was around 36 euros, which represents slightly less than 8% of the minimum wage established by the Government of the Republic as of 1 January 2017. As has already been said, there is a municipality in Estonia where the kindergarten is free of charge for children in the region. In 85% of local government units, the parental participation fee is less than 10% or 10% of the minimum wage set by the Government of the Republic. There is no analysis in the draft of whether there are no less restrictive solutions than proposed to achieve the desired objective. As a result of the legislative amendment, the costs in some local government units would increase. Neither the draft nor the explanatory memorandum indicates how the costs of the legislative amendment would be covered. The change could lead to a deterioration in the quality and availability of services provided by childcare facilities and other local services. Thus, the Government of the Republic does not support the draft. Hardi Rikand added that the real situation is that these fees will be reduced and additional benefits will be added. The draft is intended to regulate an area which is already being dealt with by local authorities. Krista Aru asked about the application of the 20% rate. Tiina Peterson explained that data from the Estonian Education Information System in November 2016 are currently available, according to which the place fee in six municipalities amounts to 15 to 20% of the minimum wage set by the government, while 94% of the municipalities have already led to a participation fee of less than 15%. Finally, it can be said that the Commission maintained its position that local authorities should be trusted. According to their abilities, they will do their best and, following administrative reform, should not immediately centrally change the rules that the new local authorities have taken into account. The unanimous decision of the Committee on Culture to reject the draft at first reading was probably also due to the fact that the proposed draft had a sharp smell of elections. And now our decisions. The Commission decided to place the draft on the plenary agenda by 26 September (this decision was consensual), to appoint Mr Pikhof as rapporteur for the Commission (the decision was consensual) and to propose that the draft be rejected. This decision was also adopted by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U102	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. As you have heard, the lead committee has proposed that 478 be rejected at first reading. I'm sorry, I was in a hurry! Now's a chance to negotiate. On behalf of Krista Aru Estonian Free Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U103	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! After all, the draft amendment to § 27 of the Pre-School Children's Institution Act serves the right and good purpose. This great goal is true. I do not think that there is any representative of the public in this Chamber who would oppose that the establishment of the kindergarten place fee should be carried out in accordance with this great objective, so that all our problems with citizens and other populations can be solved as easily and effectively as possible. However, the Group of the Estonian Free Party cannot support this draft and, above all, because we believe that local authorities are also working to achieve this great goal. We have no reason to suspect local authorities that they are not doing their best for the well-being of children and families in their region. That the local government could do something else on the account of children, such as supplementing public policy, we simply do not believe. If we want to move towards a more trusting society, so that the central government and the central and local authorities know exactly what one's tasks and responsibilities and what another's duties and responsibilities are, then we must not suspect local government politicians or call them, for example, utilities politicians, as stated in the explanatory memorandum to this bill. So the Free Party Group, while very supportive of the fact that our population problems should be resolved, that there should be a kindergarten place for everyone at the lowest possible cost, but still does not approve of this bill. This is now a break-in from an open door and, on the other hand, a mistrust of local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U104	There's no more calls. The Steering Committee has proposed to reject the draft 478 at first reading. We shall prepare the vote. Heljo Pikhof! I'm taking this opportunity to remember the classic: press faster!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U105	What to do, some people are slower, some faster. But I fully support what Krista Understand said. The Social Democrats are also of the opinion that this bill is intended to break through an open door and, in fact, we need to consider whether the place fee for kindergarten should be linked to the minimum wage at all. If this is linked to the minimum wage, when the council starts working, it may be established that the fee is, for example, 10% of the minimum wage and that each year, together with the minimum wage, the place fee for the kindergarten will automatically rise. As we have seen, the minimum wage has risen exponentially in recent years, which is very good in itself. As far as trusting local authorities is concerned, I will speak a few words about Tartu. There was a shortage of kindergarten places in Tartu for 20 years. It lasted until 2015. Since then, any person who wishes to receive a day-care centre or a day-care centre will be able to obtain a day-care centre and the queues will be lost. Before 2015, parents whose children went to a private day care centre or childcare centre paid approximately 200 euros per month in Tartu, and there were 1500 children in the private system. The place fee has now been harmonised with municipal day-care centres in private day-care centres. This fee has indeed been 15% of the minimum wage. The current coalition, and I believe that all the forces that are elected to the Tartu City Council in these elections have spoken to the opposition about this, too, that the place fee must be reduced step by step. This could be done by paying a place fee of 15% of the minimum wage, paying half of the amount for the second child and free of charge in kindergarten. It is safe to say that during the independence of our country, the first local elections are now, where the main topic in Tartu is not the shortage of kindergarten places. Instead, the aim is to modernise the children's learning and growth environment and make day-care services more flexible so that it is also suitable for parents working in shifts and families with special needs. It's not just the place fee that depends on whether or not children are good in kindergarten. There are also many other factors involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-26_U106	Honourable groups, would anyone else like to take the floor? I'm guessing no. The Steering Committee has proposed to reject the draft 478 at first reading. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 478 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 69 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 5 against and no abstentions. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported. Draft 478 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the Riigikogu proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting in this large Chamber is over. I wish you a busy day. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 11.18 a.m.
