ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government! Good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! Currently, 33 members of the Riigikogu are present in the plenary. Among the members of the government are Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar and Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm. Depending on the number of requests made by the questioners last day, I will be able to submit two additional questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U2	The first question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Jaak Madison, please! But Jaak Madison isn't. In that case, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar will answer Krista Aru's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Minister of Culture! Harness has become a natural part of our cultural space. However, when you read our cultural policy, there is not yet a clear definition of multinationalism and it has not found enough mention of so-called activities. Do and how much do you think our cultural policy now needs to be re-examined in the light of this new, changed reality? What would be the actions to be taken more closely?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U4	Thank you for your question. The Ministry of Culture will be able to deal with this issue regularly through the National Companion Programme Council. There are two officials appointed by the Ministry of Culture: one from the External Relations Department and the other from the Department of Cultural Diversity. However, the work of this council is largely coordinated by the Ministry of Education, or the Ministry of Education and Research. The Ministry of Culture, of course, has an important role to play in all these activities, because we cannot imagine how we would preserve Estonians abroad if we did not cultivate our own culture there. Fortunately, Estonian communities have been very active in maintaining their language and culture while moving abroad at different times for decades. Culture is changing over time: different forms of culture are changing fairly quickly in time. Of course, this also results in what is expected of this external Estonian community, what are the things that come together when they are organised abroad. For our part, we have tried to maintain diversity so that traditional and classical things are available and represented, but also newer trends or trends in culture, thinking of the younger generation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U5	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U6	Surely there is another very important dimension to this matter. It is an Estonian language. It is the ability to teach Estonian abroad and the possibilities to use it are created.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U7	Krista Aru, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Culture! The digitisation of cultural heritage and cultural goods creates a new reality and a new way of communicating. I very much believe that the Empathetic Ministry of Culture is precisely the initiator who is able to create new cultural relations, to interpret them and to give it all to foreign diasporas and external Estonian communities a communication bridge with Home-Estonia. Is and how the Ministry of Culture is moving forward with a digitised cultural repository, with its new reflection and involvement? Can you see whether new digitisation programmes are creating more of them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U9	Thank you for your question. Given Estonia's ambition in everything concerning IT and digital solutions, we would certainly like much more and much faster than we can now. First of all, I would like to remind you that the good law passed by the Riigikogu, which applied from 1 January in the s. a, made us the first country in the world to digitally collect all the publications that appear in Estonia. We are the world's first country to have a perfect database from s. a from 1 January, thanks to the good cooperation between the Committee on Culture and the Ministry. As far as our ambition is concerned, we are constantly debating these solutions and how much we have a resource and how much one or the other thing requires a resource. Our ambition is not just to talk about it in the Estonian context. Since we have an excellent opportunity to raise this issue to the level of the European Union, we are also organising an international conference at the start of our Presidency of the European Union, which is precisely about how to ensure access to culture through modern digital solutions. And there is certainly not only a question of technical solutions, but also of such awareness and change of way of thinking, how we view the culture we are creating, and whether the provision of digital solutions is only a matter of marketing, or whether it is a much broader concept.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U10	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U11	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! We note that the diaspora has decreased to the east and increased to the west. Is and where, in this light, are there plans to increase cultural representations?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U12	Over time, the Ministry of Culture has increased the number of cultural attachés. We know that we have cultural attachés in different countries. I can't say for sure the next step. By the way, this reduced solution we have just introduced into China because of the coincidence of the circumstances. In addition to the interest of the Estonian community there, there was also a suitable person who could perform this task part-time. But time will show where the interests of the Estonians themselves are greater and the activities more active. On the other hand, the creation of these offices naturally also means the need for resources and, unfortunately, there is always a limited amount of resources. I think that the most important thing, however, is that we ensure that all those Estonian people who live abroad can learn and practice the Estonian language as much as possible. This is one of the key issues of whether we can keep a sufficient volume in budgets.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U13	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U14	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! We have a nationalist program, and as a minister, you're probably involved in this, including running this program. Is this programme more traditional forms of work, or are the more modern techniques that Krista Aru referred to just a moment ago (digital bridge, etc.) feasible through this nationalist program? What if we need more programs or some form of work? How do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U15	Thank you for your question. I must make it clear here that I cannot intervene in the management of the National Companion Programme Council. It is under the authority of another minister, which is the Council of Education. And as I said earlier, we have had a good opportunity to present two representatives of the Ministry of Culture. Yes, these Estonian communities, which have been established decades ago, carry some traditions abroad. As a result, many of the things that this Council supports and does are more of a traditional nature. But I owe you an answer here. I do not currently have an overview of initiatives that are directly linked to digital solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U16	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U17	The next question is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U18	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! When we were here a month ago talking about the city of Tallinn and the leadership of the Centre Party, you were dimmed and pretending that you didn't know much about this topic. A week later, you jumped to the top of Tallinn's election campaign and are closely linked to the activities of the Centre Party in Tallinn. I will briefly summarise the situation in Tallinn. The council members of the Central Party who have been convicted of criminal offences refuse to release the mayor of Tallinn who has been convicted of criminal offences. Therefore, the mayor is not the mayor who will file a criminal charge against the chairman of the council to replace the deputy mayor of Tallinn who has been charged with a criminal charge. And all of this has been freshly taken to communicate with a criminally convicted person. How does this give people the impression of the Republic of Estonia? Is it such a Nordic government culture or rather a mafia government culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U19	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! Culture first. I think that culture must be transparent at both local and national level; it must certainly be democratic; it must be one where corruption does not exist. You are referring to the fact that there are no mayors in Tallinn. The truth is that the mayor of Tallinn has not worked at Tallinn City Government since September 2015. At this point, a good questioner, I certainly commend the current deputy mayor in the role of the mayor, Taavi Asa, who has been strong, professionally and essentially managing the city. I think what I have said before is that the hall of the Riigikogu should not be the place where we are talking about the activities of different governments and the elections of different local governments. I understand you have it very much on your tongue, because you have also been very powerful and very strong on the way to Kristen Michal, your mayor's candidate. So in this sense, I understand your question and why you so much want to bring the matter of government to this Riigikogu. I've never been distracted by the issues of a city. On the contrary, I've said what I know. I am responsible for what I have said and I am responsible for what I have said. You say that I care about Tallinn and that I am in front of this campaign cart. As a resident of Tallinn, I care very much about what I do in Tallinn. This is true. As chairman of my party, I will, of course, do everything to ensure that the people of Tallinn do well, that there is professional leadership in Tallinn, that there is substantive leadership, that there is leadership that can resolve the concerns of the residents. Yes, it is true that I am primarily interested in this as a resident of Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U20	Arto Aas, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U21	Thank you. Well, the blurring continues. If you participate in the opening event of the Central Party campaign in the capital, you will actually take responsibility, you will not stay away from running the capital. And it can't be that you're only doing positive things, that you're not responsible for negative circumstances. If you are already interfering with Tallinn's leadership, do so completely! After all, the situation in the city is absurd in the sense that the official mayor Savisaar has not really been there for two years, but there are dozens of his advisors still working there. What prevents the Central Party Group from replacing the mayor? What prevents the Centre Party Group from replacing the Chairman of the Council? These decisions are away from your phone call, as we have seen in the last week. Why don't you make those decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U22	Thank you. I ask once again for an apology from the members of the Riigikogu that we really need to discuss the subject of a government in such an honorable hall, but I cannot in any way say as a member of the government that I do not answer the questions of my superiors, members of the Riigikogu. But I think we have a radically different understanding of local government and government management from your party. And it also seems to me that we have fundamentally different concepts of party leadership. You used the words that the decisions were one phone call away. Perhaps it is true that your party chairman will call Kristen Michal and then Kristen Michal will run and do what the chairman says. We really don't, really don't. And I think it's important to keep one government's affairs and government's administration separate in this sense. There's no phone right in the middle party like you said. It would be very interesting to debate how this telephone right will be in the Reform Party. I'm sure it would be interesting to listen to it, but I wouldn't recommend it to my party. So I'm not bringing phone rights into my party. You said the head of the campaign of the Centre Party would be the chairman of his party. Of course I'm at the top of the Central Party campaign. There is no doubt here, too, as the chairman of the party, I take responsibility for this. No, we are not just talking about positive things, as you said, although there are really many. As far as I know, over 90% of the inhabitants of the capital are satisfied with what is happening in Tallinn. And I really hope that in Tallinn, you will never have a phone right like yours. But we're also talking about the future. What we're talking about is that kids need a free circle of interest. We are talking about the need to increase the pension allowance for older people to EUR 100. We are also talking about the need to maintain free public transport.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U23	Arto Aas, the second point to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U24	The deaf-mute also realizes that your story is full of contradictions. You say that as chairman of the Centre Party, you are responsible, and you are here throwing electoral promises from the Centre Party. You have just been actively involved in the dismissal of Deputy Mayor Sarapuu, for which you must be commended. You may have missed a few months, but at least the right decision finally fell. Have you made any suggestions within your party? The Centre Party has become a real state party: you are in power in Tallinn, where you have a monopoly, you are in power in the country, as in the major cities of Ida-Virumaa and most large municipalities. I'll be back to Tallinn. Have you at least proposed to your party associates to release these avalanches of charges from city officials so that the city power can move forward so that city life can develop further, so that the city management of Tallinn is not paralyzed? At present, even certain professional positions cannot be filled because people are charged with criminal charges and there really is no real city manager.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U25	Thank you. Good questioner! There's nothing to do, I can see once again that there's a lot of bitterness and bitterness in your undertone. That's not good in politics. It's not good at all in life, not personally to you or anyone else. We've got to get through this. There's a saying in sports that if you fall, get up and go on. You're talking about how the Centre Party is in power. I say that the Reform Party was in power in Estonia for 17 years, and that is what the Estonian people wanted. You were able to find consensus with your coalition partners and implement your programming objectives. I don't blame you for that. We can argue about these programme objectives, but for the fact that you have exercised power in the country, recognition of your party. Now, you're talking about being the only one. No, it's not! Like you, the people of Estonia have chosen five other political parties and political groups here in the Riigikogu. Whether they're from Pärnu or they're from Ida-Viru County, they've made a decision in their own constituency. I say so. Point one: Arvo Sarapuu resigned himself. Point two: it is clear that, if there is such a strong suspicion, it cannot continue to act or be in this area. You said it could have happened a few hours earlier. I'm just saying, for example, that Kristen Michal resigned, as far as I know, after 199 days, Maret Maripuu in 101 days, Atonen in 246 days. Mikhail Korb made a statesmanly decision and resigned in one day. As you said, it could have been more operational for a few hours, but I think it was more of a matter of yours.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U26	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! As you requested, we will move on to a culture of governance. It is common knowledge that when a government makes a decision, it always has critics. But as a rule, the government has some supporters. The government has decided to let the state budget down and introduce a number of new taxes. These decisions have been strongly criticised by Eesti Pank and by an independent council of experts. Businesses have also been very vocal about this. And my question is: who are the supporters of these decisions? Who are your allies?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U28	Thank you. In that sense, you are right that the government is really making decisions. And I have, of course, also considered cooperation and, I would say, a dialogue between the government and the Riigikogu as a legislative assembly to be very important here. Just yesterday, I also sent a small overview of the good things that the Government of the Republic has done to your group, the Free Party and the EKRE, for example. I hope you could read it. You said we've made new taxes. But who has supported this tax policy? First of all, if we take the banking sector, the banking union itself came up in negotiations with the Ministry of Finance with the idea of how they could contribute more to Estonian society in their sector. Its idea was published by the manager of the largest bank in Estonia on national broadcasting news. Now, second of all, if you ask me where the support came from, it's from a lot of places. For example, accommodation facilities, hotels have clearly stated that an increase in VAT to 14% would not have been fair in their opinion. It's 9% now, the government canceled that increase. I think that the news that has now come about economic growth still shows that the people of Estonia have contributed very strongly to it. This shows that Estonian entrepreneurs who take risks in business have done very serious and consistent work. But I think it also shows that, of course, as a result of the work of the Riigikogu, but also of the government, a very solid and strong framework has been created so that we can today establish the kind of economic growth we had in the last quarter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U29	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U30	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! With regard to the change of minister of public administration, I have this question as to whether there is a real change of direction to be expected as regards the progress of the administrative reform. Will the new minister avoid the foolishness and incompetent approach of the previous minister? For example, Ida-Virumaa, Järvamaa, Harjumaa and Pärnumaa. Will you review the previous minister's policy and change of direction? It is quite possible until 15 July, you have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U31	Thank you. I certainly think that every member of the government, including the new member of the government, takes cooperation with the Riigikogu and members of the Riigikogu very seriously. But I can't agree with your assessment. I'm sorry if I'm wrong, but you used the word'stupidness'. I hate to believe that a member of the Free Party Group here in the honourable Riigikogu uses this word, but I think you said the stupidity of the previous minister. I don't agree with you here. I think Mikhail Korb has been a very well-informed minister in his field. He is a minister who has been on the ground very much, i.e. based on the principle that his eye is king. He has also been very open to discussions and discussions to find the best common ground. At this point, I certainly acknowledge the actions of Mikhail Korb. Let us be honest, on the one hand, he became a minister on the subject of administrative reform, which had already reached halfway through or beyond. On the other hand, he has also developed a very clear vision of state reform, rural governments. It will also develop a very strong and broad-based municipal financing model. So I'm sure I'll reject those assessments of you in his case. Now, you asked if anything would change. I think that this principle, which has been in the administrative reform from the outset, so that services become better quality, more operational, more accessible to people, be it public transport, be it the social sector, be it the education sector, also the new minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U32	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U33	The next question is the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U34	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, the assistant mayor of Tallinn, Mikhail Kõlvart, has suggested that Russian-speaking songs should also be heard at the singing party. Here's my question for you. Since the subject has given rise to a fairly broad discussion in society, what is your personal position and the official position of the Ministry of Culture, say, on this matter, if it already exists?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U35	Thank you, dear questioner. I can express the position of both myself and the Ministry of Culture at the same time, because, amazingly, they overlap. First of all, I do not think that the Minister is able to and I certainly do not want to write to the organisers of the song festival what the repertoire must be. I also do not do this for the other institutions that work for the Ministry of Culture. Repertoire choices, artistic choices must be made by creative people, and at the Song and Dance ceremony there are programme teams and top-discipliners who make these choices. If they think it is necessary to use references to another culture or another language to tell the story they want to tell themselves, then it is their free choice. They draw their best consideration on how to tell their story. I can give you an example from the past. The 2009 dance, which was entitled 'Meri', related, among other things, the story of Estonian men beaching with their neighbours, although in Latvia, Finland, Russia. And to describe how they were accepted in Russia, this dance had a beautiful Russian song called 'Ah va, so far, moi so far'. According to my data, people really liked the story you told, everyone was happy. But really, I can't dictate to people that they necessarily use the same models to create their next productions, or tell them what language choices they should make.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U36	Mart Helme, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U37	Thank you. That is how I say, a well-balanced and more official than a politician. I'm sure you have a personal position. And I'm sure you can also influence the choice of repertoire and everything you're planning to do, both through the ministry department and personally. There is no doubt about that, because Estonia is so small and everyone knows everyone. That's why I'm asking. That was a nice example you gave, but it was a thematic example. What is different is that the repertoire is already deliberately and intentionally taken not only in Russian, but also in English, German and other language songs and songs. Do you think that our singing parties should go on the path of internationalisation, or should they remain primarily Estonian parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U38	Thank you for your question. I thought I made my position quite clear. My position, as a minister, as an official, as you mentioned, overlaps with that of me as a creator and a person who believes deeply in freedom of creation. I think it's up to the creators to decide the artistic whole. They must, of course, bear in mind that in creating this whole, there are some written and unwritten rules in society how far it can go by drawing attention to themselves. But it's the creators' responsibility and choice. Once again, I do not think it right for the Minister to intervene in such programmes in one way or another, or even to be one of the programme designers. It can be said that my predecessors have sometimes performed at a song party, but perhaps they have not quite shaped a repertoire. But it has been their choice and they have made this choice regardless of what I think. It has always been important to me in art that what is used as a form of self-expression is justified so that it is not done simply because of trickery. And if it is justified to use the language used by one in four Estonians as their home language, it is the choice of artistic leaders.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U39	Mart Helme, the second point to clarify.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U40	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Of course, it is very convenient to distance yourself from the whole subject and say that it is a foreign concern, that other people are dealing with it. Do you not think that bringing Russian to a song festival is another clearly dividing step in Estonian society and that the government's task is to avoid such division?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U41	I do not have such data, and no integration monitoring will reflect it either. Consequently, this division has not grown much since the 2009 dance, when there was a Russian song. The fact that you, Mr Helme, are demanding from me that I behave like an enlightened monarch, to say the least, or a censor, and to establish the limits that can be expressed or not in the artistic program of a song festival, I am very familiar with a previous questioner who urged the Prime Minister to exercise telephone rights. This is a methodology that, like the Prime Minister, I don't want to use either. This will certainly separate us from the common ground you have with the Reform Party. Maybe hard-handed and phone law doesn't apply to our political property.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U42	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U43	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Unlike my colleague, I do not think that the Minister should really be involved in the singing party as an active performer. One of your predecessors went to a singing party to conduct. I hope as your actress, you don't go to a singing party or something like that. But the question is actually serious. The theme of our young singing party is from young composers and young conductors to young people. If we had a young, Russian, popular and high-level composer in Estonia, I think that the co-founders of this song party would probably have taken account of his work. But there aren't any. I think that the only thing that reminds memory players of Russian composers in Estonia is Galina Grigoryeva. Why do you think that is? Have you thought about why there are simply no Russian players?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U44	Thank you for your question. First of all, I'll try to take into account your suggestion not to conjure a song party. I hope you do not impose such restrictions on your good colleague Ain Lutsep. He would certainly be very dignified as the leader of a singing party, and members of the Riigikogu could also do so from time to time. The restrictions and standards imposed on them, however, tend to be similar to those of the members of the government. So I hope that you do not regard it as an absolute restriction. If this is artistically justified, then a member of the Riigikogu could also participate. I cannot provide statistics on how many of Estonia's young composers call themselves Russian or consider themselves a nationalist. I'm sure there are, and there must be talent among them. But I really don't know how many statistics there are. I would remind you that a song party is just like all other creations are part of the world around us. And the artistic whole is definitely affected by what's happening around us in the world. New songs and new dances have constantly been added to the repertoire of the Song Festival. They all reflect what is happening around us in general, not just what is happening directly in Estonia. We don't just live in memories. Although we continue a tradition with a song and dance, it is time-changing and must be time-changing, so that young people do not feel at one point that it is a stale museum that is no longer of interest to them. Fortunately, on the contrary, young people's desire to participate in the singing and dance festivals and in choirs and dance circles has grown steadily in recent years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U45	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U46	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I undoubtedly sympathize with your attitude that you do not need to exercise phone rights. And I think you got something wrong here. No one wants a hard hand. We wanted to know the Minister's position, because the question is actually very fundamental. The Song Festival is one of the pillars of the identity of Estonians and when it is multiqued or multilingual, it is a conscious and systematic dismantling of our identity. The Estonian Constitution speaks of Estonia as a bearer of Estonian culture and the Ministry of Culture should be the instrument that deals with the reproduction of Estonian culture every day, not the promotion of multiculturalism. The problem is that our Minister of Culture in your person doesn't want to take a stand in any way. Why is it so difficult for you to say that the Estonian Song Festival is a cultural event of Estonians that does not need to be modernised? The reason young people go to a song festival is because they draw support from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U48	Please give me a position!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U49	The answer to how our understanding of what is happening around us in the world, what it looks like in general and probably in the future, is also within the name of your party, the Estonian Conservative People's Party. With this last speech, you once again stressed the view that the Estonian culture should be put behind the display in the museum, that it should be preserved as it once was. I do not know exactly what time you long for: whether Päts' time when Päts personally decided which writers should get on the state wage and which were not, or what moment you would like to fix in order to stay there. I think that only such a national culture is viable, which actively interacts with the cultural spaces around itself and elsewhere in the world. If it fails to relate, however, culture will not evolve and will not be viable. So we also need to be prepared that our creators, who are the mediums that reflect to us what is happening in the world, rephrase it and take it into artistic form so that, at wonderful moments, we can get cataracts about the story they tell us. The choices they make in this must be in their hands in a democratic country. The Ministry of Culture does not impose on them quotas or restrictions on how to do these things. In that case, they would no longer have freedom of creation. And I'm certainly not going to support it, even though I can see that you have this desire.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U50	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U51	The next question is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U52	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! I would like to continue with you on a subject where it may seem that we have already talked about everything in this Question Time, but in the meantime, some circumstances have changed. It is a question of budgetary balance or deficit, in other words, an assessment of what economic cycle we are in, whether we are strong or weak. Today, I was moved to do the interview of the Governor of Eesti Pank yesterday. Mr Hansson once again says that he thinks that we are now in a strong rather than weak economic cycle, that economic activity is high and that the further stimulation of the economy that your government is planning is neither necessary nor appropriate. For you, Prime Minister, in the meantime, have there been any additional circumstances, additional information that might justify reviewing previous decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U53	Thank you. Just like you, I thank you for the discussion we have had with you about the Estonian economy. I don't think it's run down the side, but it's been beneficial to both sides. And I hope that we will continue this issue in the future. If you ask if anything has changed, as you know, I also know that we have been hit by a positive surprise. We see a positive change which shows that economic growth was 4.4% in the first quarter of this year. But I don't think it's worth getting caught right now. We also need to look a little wider at what sectors have contributed to this growth, whether there is only one sector or more. Here, too, we see positive signs of the sectors being more than one, i.e. this growth is not based on just one sector or one sector. On the one hand, we see that industry is doing better. On the other hand, we see that the construction sector is doing better, the construction sector has become more active. And thirdly, we see that domestic demand-oriented sectors have done better. So on this basis, it can be said that economic growth has been rather broad-based than narrow-based. At the same time, if you ask whether it is worth reviewing the country's budgetary strategy, we are still based on the government's use of input, assessment and analysis of independent experts and specialists in the decision-making of budgetary policy. I stress once again that the assessment and analysis of independent people. A new assessment will come at the end of August, beginning of September.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U54	Andres Ammas, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U55	Honorable Prime Minister! After all, in the meantime, we have also learned the position of the European Commission and other opinions of very independent experts on Estonia. But I'm gonna come back to that Ardo Hansson interview. The amendment of the basic law of the budget as planned by your government is, in our opinion, a violation of our people's confidence in the future. And when you quote Mr Hansson, he says in that interview: 'The law should, to some extent, bind the hands of governments. It's not like you do what you want. If everyone believes that the framework remains, there is confidence in the future. If the law is constantly being changed, governments will think that they will do what they want. ' How do you comment on Mr Hansson's position?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U56	Thank you, good questioner! Different estimates from Eesti Pank can be brought to this discussion. One is what you brought. I have read that Eesti Pank has also said that very fundamental changes must be made for people earning low or average wages. I have also read Eesti Pank's assessment, according to which it is true that there is a dispute, whether in the short term or in the long term was the real need to invest in the Estonian economy. Now, with my answer, I come to the fact that we have two options. Are we following the same path that we have been going to Estonia for the last ten years and which has not actually given us the economic growth we have all been waiting for, regardless of whether we are from the Reform Party, the Free Party, the EKRE, the Social Democratic Party, the IRL or the Centre Party? We also know that there are quite a number of questions that have not been resolved in Estonian society in the last ten to fifteen years: health policy, pension reform, income for people receiving low and medium wages. Yes, they all also require expenditure from the state budget. I think one way to cover all this is in a country with better growth. We are based on this principle that our current economic growth, say what was before the last 24 hours, has not achieved its potential. And with the current government, we really think that changes need to be made. These issues need to be resolved: health care, pension, income for people on low and medium wages. This is a positive message that has come over the last 24 hours in terms of economic growth. At the same time, I think that this is not the only thing that should be based on now. As I said, the Ministry of Finance's new assessment of independent specialists, the new analysis will come at the end of August, in September.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U57	Thank you, Prime Minister. Andres Ammas, the second question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U58	Honorable Prime Minister! According to the media, your consultations with the leaders of the IRL and the Social Democratic Party on all tax laws are continuing today. We are watching this with interest, hoping that some of the decisions that may have been taken lightly will also be reviewed. Is the basic budget law part of these consultations? Have you guys talked about this? Are you going to discuss this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U59	Thank you. I must first give my sincere recognition here to both partners, both social democrats and the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union, of course, as well as both presidents. Our discussions have been very constructive and very meaningful. And I will also say that they have always been the best debate in the search for a solution. It is true that we will continue these discussions tonight after seven o'clock. I will certainly also take with me the input that, on behalf of your Free Party, you are generally saying to make the budget of the Estonian state and the budget strategy of the state even better. And I think that this is important to the current coalition, i.e., of course, to listen to the views of the politicians of opposition parties as well. Now, you're talking about the basic law of the state budget. The entire state budget is on the table right now. There are certain fiscal steps on the table that we have discussed. It seems to me that, as a result of a rather serious analysis, we are also reaching a better agreement than we did some time ago. How do we proceed? We will certainly be based on what I have said here before, that the new budget rule is more flexible than before. But also according to this, the Estonian budget must, on average, be balanced in structural terms, and we will certainly not retreat from it. The principle is that, while national budgets have been in surplus in previous years, they can have a deficit of up to 0.5% of GDP. And according to the National Budget Strategy 2018 to 2021, the structural balance will be achieved in 2021. Nobody has put the structural balance on the table to make it any further. It didn't exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U60	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U61	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Both the Ardo Hansson interview and the National Audit Office's audit of Rail Baltic make it very clear that the state has no obligation at present or any economic need to bury state budget resources in concrete and iron. Moreover, the National Audit Office states directly that the drafts, explanatory notes or agreements do not state clearly what financial obligation the state will have in their drafts or contracts. Perhaps my question is who and how, in 10, 15 and 20 years' time, will be responsible for these political decisions, the drafts that I will once again use to the Riigikogu, and which will not secure the future of our new generations. Sven Sester or George Ratas? How are you responsible for this? And how can you say that our country...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U62	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U63	...isn't going up financially?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U64	Thank you. After all, the responsibility of politicians is always linked to elections. But, Reverend Asker, if you invite me, Jüri Ratas, in ten to 15 years' time, and you ask me how these things have been, I will definitely come and discuss these issues with you. There is no doubt about that. Now, you named Rail Baltic. We have the perspective of the country's budgetary strategy for the next four years: 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021. This is the way the country's budget strategy has been set out. We know that in the case of Rail Baltic, one of the main debates is what will be the amount of Estonia's co-financing over the period 2021 to 2027. We are working to make it as big as it is now, in the order of 15%, 19%, up to 20%. To this end, it is foreseen and stated that during the 2015-2025 period, we will ask the Estonian taxpayer to invest in Rail Baltic at EUR 268,5 million. These are the issues that are on the table with regard to Rail Baltic. I think that is the question of the principle of whether we support Estonia's rapid, operational connection to Central Europe through the Baltic States or not. Do we consider the investment that Estonia is able to apply for from the European Union to exceed EUR 1 billion to be important, or do we not? I say to you that I consider it important that we have a rapid connection with the Baltic States and Central Europe, that we also have better transport opportunities with Scandinavia, thanks to Rail Baltic. I also consider it important that it provides a more operational connection within the Baltic States, not to mention the connection between Tallinn and Pärnu, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U65	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U66	Prime Minister! In your reply to Mr Ammas' question, you mentioned the need for investment and also referred to the Governor of Eesti Pank. You have also justified your investment in living debts, budget deficits and the use of reserves. And you have given such an example that next year will be investments at the highest level ever, but the budget will also be the largest ever. If we look at government investment as a percentage of GDP, then in 2007, for example, it was 6.6% when the Centre Party was also in government. But next year it will be 5.35% of your planned budget strategy. And 6,6 is still much bigger than 5.35! I'm asking why you're misleading the public. In fact, you still have a very modest increase in investment, and this increase will be 160 million next year. At the same time, you're taking 137 million out of your reserves, which is your own number, and a further 200 million in loans.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U67	Thank you, Aivar Sõerd! Thank you, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U68	Why are you misleading the public with the talk of investment? It doesn't honor the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U69	Thank you, good questioner! The general principle is, in fact, in business and in the private sector, but I think that also in the public sector: if we do not invest, we will not take any further steps. Productivity will not rise and we will not see any growth. So in any case, I am in favour of the public sector also making smart, smart and serious investments in the Estonian economy, the Estonian environment. We can argue whether the IT investments planned by the current coalition are necessary or not. I think that this image, which we have achieved in information technology in Estonia thanks to several governments and the Riigikogu, needs further development. If you say in the Reform Party that these investments are not needed by the people of Estonia, that there is no need for a faster internet, then I object. The same is true of defence investments. In order to increase our defence capabilities, additional investments are needed. However, investments must not, of course, lead to imbalances in the Estonian economy or to deficits in our budget. We see that these strategic investments (including infrastructure and international conference centre) will help the Estonian economy to make progress, help the Estonian economy to achieve this potential. You are comparing the years 2007 and 2017. You know very well that the crisis began between 2008 and 2009, i.e. these eras cannot be compared.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U70	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U71	Now Jürgen Ligi is asking Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U72	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, you commended our discussion here, which has been going on for months. For me, it's been your demagogic monologue where you've read some bullshit on paper. We have so far assured you that the economy does not need to be revived, that structural minus must not be created. However, you have responded that the economy needs to be revived, which Eesti Pank and the Fiscal Council do not approve, and you will get entrepreneurs started. Entrepreneurs are set in motion, yes, but in the sense of rage. They're really mad at this bullshit. They've never been so mean to the government. Now tell me, have you moved anything in your thinking since the statistics showed that the assessment of the economic cycle corresponds to the opinion of the critics, not to your opinion. And please do not say such nonsense that we want to argue about IT investments, as you said in your previous reply. It's a pretty cheeky habit to answer a specific question like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U73	Thank you. I'm asking you to fit in with your time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U74	Thank you, good questioner! After all, you can describe our discussions in different words. What I acknowledged was the question of Andres Ammas and the saying or assessment that we have discussed these topics here. Really, we've been through this. We have also had different positions, but there has been a debate. And I hope that this debate will continue. Now that you say that the economy does not need recovery, I think that the economy needs support, that it needs stimulation and that it also needs recovery. This has been shown by the economic growth figures of recent years, which clearly have not satisfied Estonian society. At a level such as the first quarter of this year's economic growth of 4.4%, we were able to speak last in 2012. It's been a long time. And quite a lot of complicated issues have been unsolved in Estonia during this period, both these three reforms, as I said here earlier, and the issues of financing for the agricultural sector and local governments. Let's take a look at the contents of that last percentage. We see that the export sector is doing better, going more actively, which is directly linked to the fact that the industrial sector has also grown in the last quarter. We also see that investment in machinery and equipment has increased. And let's be honest, there's been a slight improvement in the picture of productivity. These are all good signs. But I don't think it's worth getting excited about these signs, but being on the ground with two legs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U75	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U76	Mr. Ratas, we don't like these numbers, much less you or your answers. What you want to revive is a building with a clear, dizzying growth. What you praise is export demand that is not yours to revive. You are actually justifying your fiscal policy, which means that you are living in debt and that this government, during which the euro money is also largely coming to an end, has to be cut. Please tell me how you explain this. I'm not just saying this for me, I'm saying this for the experts. Eesti Pank is also saying the same thing. Please explain what you are smarter than Eesti Pank and the Fiscal Council! I'm not talking about the opposition, you're more eloquent anyway, you'll have the last word on your answer. But please explain to the economist in such a way that it is not ugly to listen to you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U77	Thank you. No, we certainly do not live in debt at the expense of the future, and this is also demonstrated by the most important document, which is the budgetary strategy of the country. And according to the country's budgetary strategy, a structural balance will be achieved by 2021. This government has not made any such document that provides that there will be a deficit at the expense of today's governance in the future. Good questioner, from your many questions, I'm reading that you weren't in the hall before. But I am telling you that this last growth number is certainly a recognition of the Estonian people. This is a recognition for Estonian entrepreneurs and owners. But I think it has also been the right approach of several governments and the Riigikogu to create this best framework for Estonian entrepreneurship so that we can see higher economic growth. Of course, Estonia is an open economy. We are seeing an improvement in economic growth, a certain shift in the case of our export partners or exporting countries. That, too, gives us more confidence. So I believe that all these steps, including those taken by the government to reduce bureaucracy or, for example, to set up business accounts or invest, but also to exempt small enterprises from VAT obligations, will help to improve our business environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U78	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government! I'm out of Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U79	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Nobody does. Incoming check, please! 71 members of the Riigikogu are currently present in the plenary.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U80	Let's move on to the weekly agenda. And next on our agenda is the draft tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Igor Gräzin, Arno Sild, Artur Talvik and Oudekki Loone. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu 414. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U81	Ladies and gentlemen, [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U82	Attention, Igor Gräzin speaking!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U83	Yeah! In short, this correction is actually technical, and it is as if nothing should really be said here. It has risen to the so-called global level simply because the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu are a law. And this must indeed be seen in terms of competence in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which makes it a very important law in legal terms. Let me remind you what the initial point of this technical amendment is. According to the law, we have a number of committees, and among them is one of the most important committees in the European Union. The proposal is to replace this Commission's current name, taking into account the established circumstances, with the European Union and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland Affairs Commission. Why? I think I have to quote Hanno Pevkur here, who has said that looking at the past is not helping, just looking at the future. No matter how we look at the current situation in Europe, the fact is that the European Union, which is the Barroso era, is simply no longer in existence and is not coming back. And in this sense, the European Union Affairs Commission can no longer deal with the European Union as it did in the past. One objection to this amendment is that, technically, Britain is still a member of the European Union after Brexit. It's true. But in answer, I quote Juncker, who has said that they have already left in their heart. It actually means what happens in marriages, for example, when there is a divorce. Then there will simply no longer be a variety of new obligations. In the divorce process, for example, real estate cannot be purchased, larger leasing is generally excluded, etc. So right now, the relationship between Britain and the European Union is, like, during a divorce. Yeah, formally, he's still in the union, but he's basically not there anymore. If we look at the political statements made with regard to Brexit, as sad as it may be, we have one simple thing to admit: we are legally dealing with two sides. The comments of European leaders, of course, from Juncker, who cannot be tamed at all, but from time to time from others, which come to England, are still extremely negative and sappy. Do you see how the press tends to gloat every thing that goes wrong in England? They didn't succeed, it didn't happen, the crash is coming, but it hasn't come yet. In short, we have, as we have automatically chosen, a party in a situation where our ally is also the other party. I quote Hvostov from today's Estonian Express. He says this about America, basically Anglo-American, that Estonia needs both: Germany, it is the European Union, Anglo-American, NATO. Can we prefer one to another? And does Estonia have any interest in taking half of the negotiations, which, at least in the opinion of some EU leaders, does not go lightly? Do I have to repeat Tusk and his kind of expression that Brexit will be difficult, no Brexit light, the British will be sorry, and so on? In fact, it is said in the context of Manchester's tragedy, which is a vile cube. But let us admit that, in fact, Nigel Farage has said things about Europeans. Whatever the case, this is what every lawyer, lawyer and lawyer say: this is a classic negotiating situation. One wants one, the other wants another, one gets one, the others don't get one, and finally peace comes and everything will be all right. But I do not think that it is in Estonia's political, strategic interest to choose one side and oppose the other. One other question that arose when this matter was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was that, if we now mention Britain separately, then why exactly Britain. Perhaps there are other countries outside the European Union that we are dealing with, such as Moldova. Mart has just mentioned Moldova, and I do not remember which countries. Now, here's the difference. With Moldova, we are bound by Richard Rohu's war memoirs from armoured train days, while the English fleet was still in the Gulf of Tallinn. England has been a classic strategic partner for Estonia for at least a century, and I hope that it will continue to do so. It should not be forgotten that English troops are currently present in the territory of Estonia. And I think that already the historical arms brotherhood is forcing us to think that England is also an important partner for us after Brexit. Another distinction, if we now mention Britain here, why are we not marking countries with which we also have good relations, but who are not members of the European Union, such as Norway and Switzerland? That's a good question. We are bound by NATO with Norway; with Switzerland, the European economy is connected. Look, there's a very fundamental difference. Switzerland is not a former country of the European Union, nor is Norway. In other words, when we start to look at the laws, on the one hand, we have English legislation, which is 80% of what is happening in the European Union and from which the laws are now being reduced, while, in the case of the integration of Norway and Switzerland, there are Norwegian laws and Swiss laws to which the laws of the European Union are being introduced. The mechanism is the opposite. Perhaps our Committee on European Union Affairs is facing the real fact that they have to deal with European Union affairs, representing the European Union and Estonia, on the one hand, but also our historic strategic ally, one of the closest friends in Britain, who is the opposite of these negotiations. But whatever it is, this change of name alone isn't gonna change our policy. At the same time, I think it would be a recognition and a signal that we recognise and realise that something is happening in Europe, that we have not missed it, and that we choose our position as friends, allies and fellow fighters to one and the other. It's weird that I'm even talking about this so much, but let's just say one last thing. There is a Latin expression nomen est omen, a name of destiny. Matthew's Gospel begins with the beginning of the word and the word. And Charles Morrison has written that word and deed are the same. Our understanding of the world and our attitude actually begins from the moment we can name things. The child becomes aware of himself when he first says 'I' when he says it about himself, not in the third person, that I'm different. From this moment on, the little creature has become a small person. In this sense, all the words we use are important. That's it. I think I talked more or less about what they asked for in that debate. Ah, right, I will say this again, we are working together on the fact that the representative of the European Court of Auditors, Ken-Marti Vaher, pointed out that the European Commission is dealing with European Union affairs, not European matters, which should be dealt with by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I think that is not a good argument, because the Committee on Foreign Affairs also deals with Mongolia, the islands of Vanuatu and does not know who. I don't think you can put England in that line. Mart Nutt asked about Moldova, which we talked about, but he also mentioned Ukraine and Andorra, which are as important as England. I will also say how the vote went: four were in favour of not having to change the name of ELAK. And these were Ken-Marti Vaher from the European Court of Auditors, Mart Nutt, Anneli Ott and Inara Luigas. They said there was no need to change. Peeter Ernits was in favour of the conversion (thank you!), Jüri Adams (bravo!) and Igor Gräzin. And Helmut Hallemaa abstained. By the way, I would like to point out that our deeply honourable Prime Minister calls on the coalition and the opposition to cooperate. You see, this is the case now: this amendment was proposed by the three opposition parties and the Prime Minister's party, and the vote went exactly the same way. So that's what cross-party cooperation is all about.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U84	Well, now the questions come to the initiator of the bill. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U85	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! This is a very exciting initiative. And I really think that this is a welcome approach from a new perspective. However, this is the question I have to ask. Let's speculate. Great Britain is currently the first to start negotiations for the departure from the European Union and should be concluded by May 2019 at the latest. But if, for example, Frexit or Itexit happens in a few years, Italy or whatever, i.e. there will be other countries that will leave, what will we do with them? Are we, then, going to put these countries in the name of the Committee on European Union Affairs? Italy is also our partner and an important country for us in NATO, for example, with France, we are going to NATO joint operations. Is there anything you can say about it with your mind when things like this start to happen? After all, the European Union remains on clay legs and never knows what will happen in this big family and community.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U86	To be honest, I think that they are not going to leave one by one, the European Union will collapse as a whole and then there will be nothing to mention. This is the new type of European Union. By the way, I admit we have this bill for the third time. The first choice of words was the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union and the countries that once belonged to it, but it was found to be legally clumsy. But in itself, yes, why not? In fact, however, I maintain that the relationship between the British and Europe is slightly different from that of the so-called continental Europeans. In fact, the British have almost never considered themselves to be real Europeans. Imagine that the British Queen is subject to some commissioner on the Commission. The Commission is in Roman law for the care of the insane. And now the British monarch is under the authority of the European Commission?! So, yeah, I've been thinking about it, but that thought hasn't helped me.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U87	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U88	Chairman! Thank you, waitress, for your own colorful speech. First of all, one clarification that I believe that the chairman of the committee, Ken-Marti Vaher, will be in the Court of Auditors tomorrow, not today. But my question concerns the substance of the side. I also asked the same question in the Commission. This is not just a technical matter. Why are we cautiously ignoring one thing? Scotland, which is inside Britain, is likely to hold a new referendum and has also declared that it is likely to seek the status of a Member of the European Union under all procedures. Why aren't we counting on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U89	I will give a parallel example here with our neighbouring Russia. Unlike Russia, the Republic of Estonia does not intervene in the internal affairs of any country. Estonia does not promote integration, separatism or anything in its own words. The Scots and the English will sort things out for themselves. I would point out that this change of name is not forward-looking, it is a fixative for the present. Brexit is an official process that has been confirmed by the British Queen's signature on March 16th. And if there is still a shortage, then on 8 June, by the way, the extraordinary elections of the British Parliament will take place, the results of which are, in essence, known in advance. But what happens next in England and Great Britain is, you know, it's not unfortunately or fortunately none of our business. We'll see what's going on, and we'll react. We're not dictating. We must not have such a madness of size that we are now changing Europe's map with a change of name.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U90	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U91	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! You've done a little history today, Igor. You did two in one: you made a presentation and then you gave a comprehensive, detailed overview of the debate that took place in the Commission. I'm offering you a chance to make three in one. If you could ask yourself something right now, what would you ask? And then, of course, you can answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U92	The question was rhetorical. Look, when I read out who voted the way, I was actually struck by a fact right here on the remote. Those who vote for this change, two out of three, we say, belong to the older generation of our policy. How can it be that changes are made by politicians who have been in politics for at least 30 years? Where are these young, brave, tomorrow's European men?? It doesn't, it doesn't. Maybe Donald Trump, thank you, Oudekki! Oh, I said young men. Okay, no stroke please! In short, whether you want it or not, Trump made one thing clear: youth in politics and courage to look to the future are not linked to the year of birth. I asked myself if it was, and I said yes, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U93	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U94	Good manager! Good waitress! Okay, that's what it's called. But would it not be wiser to call it the Committee of Emeritus of the European Union and of the European Union? It'll give you more chances.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U95	I'm saying that thought ran through once. But already some who object to this change say it's bullshit. I mean, I'm consciously trying to avoid any possibility of interpreting it as ironic or humorous, etc. It's a deadly serious correction. There was talk about ELAK tomorrow and so on. We come back to Juncker, who says he's gone in his heart. While he was in charge of the meeting, he was elsewhere in his heart. And that is the case in the European Union, what matters is where you are in the heart. Whatever it is to avoid pure irony is what it is. What really makes this thing comic? It's a minor correction. This is a technical amendment that may not have to be discussed here. But you see, since he's in a so-called legal place and Brexit is in one degree or another of our heart, he's gained such a disproportionate weight. That's the thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U96	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U97	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress, fantastic speech, fantastic presentation! I'd say enjoyable. And what I particularly like is, of course, how you gave the figurative example of whether the British Queen should really start groveling in front of the European Commission. Absolutely the right question! When I look at our comrades in some place, it's really embarrassing to start groveling. Historically, Britain has always been a balancing force in Europe, both in the Middle Ages before the peace in Westphalia, though before the Vienna Peace Conference. Britain has also been a major balancing force in the European Union against, for example, the Germans and the French. Now this balance is starting to shift because the British have decided to restore their sovereignty, to increase their independence. They go their own way, and there is a new risk of a power balance going towards the Germans. But I also have a proposition. Before becoming a member of the European Union, we had a European Affairs Committee in Parliament, and only when we became a member there was a change of name, i.e. the European Union Affairs Committee. Perhaps it would be more reasonable to go back to old times and put the European Affairs Commission back on board?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U98	That's a great idea! This, by the way, is also the place that Ken-Mart quite rightly pointed out. I mean, this is one of the most ugly tricks of the propaganda of the European Union, that the European Union speaks as if it were for Europe. In fact, the European Union does not speak for Europe. He does not even always speak in the interests of the European Union, but always speaks in the interests of certain groups and things. In that sense, of course, you are absolutely right. The second question is whether we are now going to change it or do it. Perhaps we will stick to our tradition, but, as they say, we are open and ready for proposals. By the way, when we're talking about England, I just remembered it when you were talking about English tradition, let's not forget one little thing: Estonia's connection to England. England was the first to give us freedom of entry. The Finns then wondered how to treat us. And I'm not talking about others who were wondering whether or not an Estonian could be shot abroad. In essence, the English gave Estonia the first visa waiver and it is worth something.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U99	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I have two questions. One comes from the fact that I am not so good with the Estonian language. I can ask you what the '-frog' means when it says 'party', which is the meaning of it. What's the difference between singularity and plural? And how can a member of a party who is not a party chairman express the opinion of the whole party, as you have informed us here? The second part of the question is this. You're saying that Estonia doesn't interfere with other people's affairs, but you've voted here many times and sent our soldiers and officers to Afghanistan and other countries with your own hands. What's the logic here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U101	I'm glad you pointed that out. That is not the party's opinion. However, I am deeply, philosophically in agreement with my colleague and party member, Hanno Pevkur. Hanno Pevkur insists all the time that there is no yesterday, and calls for us to start tomorrow, that we have a new beginning, etc., etc. I'm just repeating this idea, but a new beginning can be expressed in many ways. Now Estonia's non-intervention. Estonia has not gone to Afghanistan or anywhere else on its own, but it has gone there with its NATO or other coalition partners. In fact, Estonia has not led or initiated these coalitions. This is a normal, normal participation in international military cooperation with our military partners. In fact, I would not call it an intervention in the internal affairs of another country. This is not an intervention in the internal affairs of another country, but it is a military intervention between them, however, I believe that a distinction must also be made. We've gone there with guns and soldiers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U102	Thank you, Chairman. Good colleague! As far as Juncker's assessment is concerned, I even agree with you. But if you say that this change of name is due to the current situation, there are two things I disagree with you and ask for your comment. One thing is that neither Brexit nor Brexit's negotiations will last one day; they will certainly last for a much longer period. Secondly, the Scots have, in fact, long since declared their move towards the European Union and, apparently, out of independent Britain. So there's not much we can do about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U103	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U104	Okay, so I'm going to go back to one very specific moment. The British have not said that we are now contemplating, perhaps we should leave. But the Scots say let's try, vote like this, vote like this, see what happens next, let Brexi finish first, then let's do it and stuff. There's a fundamental difference. Brexit is a decided matter. I stress that the queen's signature is a very serious matter and the decision to open negotiations in accordance with Article 50 has been lan-ge-ta-ta. Stop! And no one legally disputes that. However, in the case of the Scottish referendum, for example, we can see that this is an ongoing political process, which I think is clearly early to discuss here, even less with regard to a change of name or something like that. Brexit is a fact. This is happening and there is no country in Europe that would deny it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U105	There is another question for the initiator of the bill. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U106	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President, thank you very much. Well, since you've got that signature out of my hand too, I'd like to give you another clarification. I don't agree well with you saying it's a bill for the present. No, it's still a bill for the future, not just for the present. We're not just making laws for today. We also make laws to live on. Don't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U107	I'll be more specific. Yeah, you're absolutely right. This is actually the draft for the future that could be adopted today and which also reflects today. Secondly, as far as pricking is concerned, I would point out that a person like me with a frost and a tender heart will never pinch. I humbly prayed, and I was glad you liked this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U108	Now it is also clear and there are no more questions. Thank you, Igor Gräzin! The Commission's rapporteur is Jüri Adams, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U109	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In principle, this draft could be considered very narrow. What's in here? A group of members of the Riigikogu has proposed that the name of one of the permanent committees of the Riigikogu be changed to that of the Riigikogu. The names of the committees and the content of their work need not be linked. And if, for example, they had tabled a proposal to refer to the European Commission as XYZ, it would have been formally the same, but in essence it would not be the same. In essence, however, the question is that there is an assessment of how Britain is leaving the European Union and an attempt to predict the future. I'm marking a few problems to prevent questions. One problem is the question of the name of the country. There are countries in the world whose names are very simple, where there are not many variants, such as the Republic of Estonia or Suomen evenly. Basically, we have an official full name, which consists of two words, and it can be shortened to say only Estonia. This land, however, is one of the countries with an exceptionally complex and long name. I don't know if anyone in this room knows that by heart, and that probably doesn't need to be known at all. There are two things we need to know: what we call it and how we write it down. It is quite natural for Estonians to call this country England, although we all know that England is historically only part of this country. In Europe, as well as in that country itself, the name of the country has been introduced in English by the two-word term United Kingdom, which is at the beginning of this long-term term, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. What are their meanings? Great Britain is the name of an island. There is also Little Britain in the world, which is not an island. It's a peninsula in northwestern France and in French it's called Brittany. The island has historically been hosted by three countries currently forming part of the United Kingdom. This is England, Wales and Scotland. These include Northern Ireland, which remained in England after the independence of the Republic of Ireland. There are also the Normandy Islands in the English Channel, which are a separate property in this same cluster of lands. And now, if I'm not mistaken, the Isle of Man between Ireland and Great Britain is still in this cluster. There are also overseas territories. In Estonian, this country has become a festive but not too long name for the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. The second question is that of the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs. I was not a member of the Riigikogu when this commission was launched. I have asked what this committee is currently doing. And it turns out that he really does deal with the common affairs of the European Union first, but he has also dealt with the affairs of the individual Member States of the European Union, such as Greece in the meantime. It has also dealt with the problems of various other countries, which are not members of the European Union, especially when they are a little involved. For example, Norway and other parts of Schengen are also mentioned on the issue of Schengen visa space. However, the problems of Ukraine and Moldova, for example, have also been mentioned in the Commission. To say that a change of name would guarantee that England will also be discussed there in the future, or, if the name is not changed, England will never be discussed there, I do not think that such a conclusion can be made directly here. I would not like to agree with the interpretation of the representative of the initiators when he said what the Members of the Commission expressed with the result of their vote. The vote took place on Tuesday 16 May at the Commission meeting on the draft. I think it would still be more appropriate for us to conclude formally that those people who thought that the draft should be rejected at first reading meant that it should be rejected. No conclusions should be drawn from this regarding the attitude of these people to the problems of leaving or not leaving England. In the case of people who thought that the draft could pass the first reading and remain in Riigikogu proceedings for a second reading, there should be no more to conclude than just their attitude on how to proceed with this draft. And probably an impartial opinion is an impartial opinion. The question of what we think is going to happen, what is going to happen and what is not going to happen, what is right and what is wrong in terms of the future development of the European Union, in this vote on the draft procedure, is probably not any important link to these major issues. The proposal of the Constitutional Committee to the Riigikogu's plenary session is to reject this draft at first reading. 4 members of the Commission voted in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention. Mr Gräzin read those names out, so I don't need to repeat it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U110	Questions for the Commission's rapporteur. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U111	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! Will the Commission be clear during the debate and, if so, please share this knowledge with me as well? just what is Britain, or the United Kingdom, leaving or leaving the European Union at the moment? How exactly will this decision be formulated? When is this a moment of time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U112	We did not discuss this directly, but this is also an important issue in the context of this draft. I do not think anyone has a very good answer to this question at the moment, because the European Union has not had this experience. In the case of international organisations, the general experience is that countries leave there in such a way that they first submit their resignation and, in accordance with the Treaty, this resignation is turned from some point of view to "realisation" and then the state has resigned. Now, how is England going to leave, and what is this moment, I don't know. Because all the signs show that England remains a full member of the European Union, but also of a wide variety of forms of cooperation. Perhaps this is the moment when it is agreed or when lawyers find that there is no longer a Euro Commissioner in England who would be entitled to vote in his work, or when the members elected from England disappear from the Euro Parliament. These moments don't have to run into each other. So actually, this withdrawal, according to my prognosis, will never be exactly identifiable in any one moment of time. It certainly cannot be said that by this point, everything will be over and there will be some completely new situation that has never been before. We often tend to simplify the European Union legally, that there are only Member States and nothing else. If we look politically and economically, the European Union will look quite different. There are rather like some kind of concentric circles: in the middle are the countries that use euro money, then the Member States of the European Union as a whole and then the associated countries. There are a number of countries in Europe that are de facto members of the European Union, but at the same time do not have representation either in the European Parliament or in the Commission, such as Norway and Switzerland. In my opinion, if we try to say it in a simple way, this exit of England in economic and political terms is likely to mean that England is situated in a 'one step round the wider circle'. He's not really going anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U113	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! What were the reasons and reasons why the Commission rejected the draft? Were they primarily technical or substantive? We know the results of the vote and also the end result.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U115	There was not a very wide-ranging debate in the Commission where we could have learned what some or other members of the Commission think about this problem, about England's departure in general, or what they think about the future forms of cooperation between Estonia and England. I can only give you the answer that comes from the text I've been given here. And that is that the joint role of the members of the committee seems to be that they do not see the majority who, in the current situation, decided to change the name of this permanent committee of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U116	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U117	All processes take time, but inevitably there's something about the law that you have to draw a line somewhere. Is it a sufficient feature that on 16 March the Queen of Great Britain signed and on 29 March the Prime Minister declared that Article 50 had been initiated? I am looking now (there are even timetables here) that the legal deadline is the last, where the details must be in place, after all, a fundamental decision has been passed, there is nothing to argue about here at all, March 2019. I admit that there will certainly be votes in the meantime. See, Scotland said in the referendum that they didn't want to go anywhere, they'd still be in England, and so on. And now there's an election. So this process is going on. But do you agree that the legal date of this process is certain, decided on 29 March inclusive?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U118	I can only say this: I think it would be in the public interest if there were a specific date or if one date could not be agreed, there would be at least several dates. Because there are people who have various interests outside this process. For example, they may have some kind of trial in progress and the outcome of this dispute may depend on the time when the judgment is passed or the law in force at which the judgment is invoked. So theoretically, I see that such cases can come and they can be important. Gräzin, dear People's Representative! We go back to the old days here from time to time. The beginning of the Republic of Estonia is a famous story about the court case in England. It was a dispute over who owned the property of a ship in detention in England. Since the Republic of Estonia had declared itself at that time and recognised it by England, the court decided that the property should be transferred to Estonia. And as far as I know, it also had a pretty big meaning for the future of the War of Independence. If England had not accepted this date, a different decision could have come from the court. So I see a round of time precision here would be highly preferred, especially for third parties. But I cannot personally formulate an assessment of these two dates proposed by Mr Gräzin: are they the right dates or how do we establish the right date? In any case, there are more than one or two parties here. There are very many parties here with whom the debate is only in its initial phase.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U119	Thank you, George Adams! There are no further questions for the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U120	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I have four things. First point: I would like to thank my colleague, Jüri Adams, who so thoroughly explained how geography is in Europe. Even the islands got named, I don't need to talk about Jersey, and so on. Thank you very much. Point two: the biggest minus of this bill is that it is not systemic. If the initiators had put in some kind of scheme so we wouldn't have to come back to it, if someone else was going to Exit in a year, i.e. it would change automatically, you might want to consider it. But coming back to the same law every time would be kind of weird. Thank you to those who took part in this debate in the first half. I got a lot smarter, for example, but of course there were questions. I realized in this way that military intervention is not political intervention, so war is not... I mean, fantastic! This has yet to be considered and the protocol reviewed, it was very interesting. But a summary of how this debate came to us would probably take an hour with the speeches. Why come up with something if someone's already formulated it? I'm quoting Shakespeare now. I'm sorry, I don't know what it looks like in a good translation, but I'm trying to translate as I can. I'm not gonna name a play, it's supposed to mean really bad. But that's what the translation sounds like. What is our life? Just one novel recounted by some madman. There are many words in this recount, many passions, only one there doesn't make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U121	Jaak Madison on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U122	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to come here at all at the beginning, but since this is also directly relevant to my work on the Commission to which I belong, there is a need to make a few reviews and to clarify the facts. This raises the question that it does not exactly know how long it will take for Britain to leave the European Union what these exact dates are. It must be said that, unfortunately, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I myself was not at the sitting that day when this draft was discussed in the committee, it would certainly have been necessary to shed light on the precise timetable for what this process would look like. There is nothing vague or unclear about it; it is very clearly set out in the Treaties. Article 50 states that there will be exactly two years from the day on which the application is made to leave the European Union. And Britain has hastened to do so, as far as it is possible, so that this process can be completed before the next elections to the European Parliament. The new Parliament is already elected by the voters of the 27 Member States, without Great Britain. As my good colleague, Gräzin, mentioned, the British Prime Minister, Theresa May, handed over this document on 29 March, and that is a fact. Leaving is coming, there are no conditions there anymore. Two years of negotiations will only mean discussing how relations will remain regulated as of March 2019. How will trade relations be resolved? How will issues relating to the free movement of people be resolved? What about the citizens of the European Union who are now living in Britain? How will the free movement of labour take place in the future? What about the four basic principles in the European Union? These are all nuances that will be discussed. For example, tomorrow, the European Union's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, will visit Estonia. He has already visited nine Member States and the tenth country is Estonia, where he will arrive tomorrow. It is precisely the same subjects that are being discussed, and there is nothing unclear or vague about it; everything is very firmly established. It is therefore not true that Britain may not leave, and this draft is unfounded. Great Britain is leaving. It's about the name, of course. I very much liked Igor's report, where he made a relief of whether the British monarch should be subject to the European Commission and Juncker. Of course you don't. However, in view of this so-called kiss-up in the European Union, the management of most Member States is still going to be so embarrassing to the management of the European Union, i.e. to the European Commission. At least the British don't give a shit about it, they don't shake it. They do what they want, and they do the right thing. Now to the bill. Igor, I don't really like that name, it's awfully difficult to write. What's the abbreviation? There is now a good abbreviation: ELAK, the Committee on European Union Affairs. There is no problem, no matter where you write ELAK, everyone will understand. What's it gonna look like afterwards? It only creates new problems. We will also look at the outcome of the vote in committee. The votes were divided into four: three: one or four members of the Commission supported the vote, three supported the referral to second reading and one abstention. Well, I don't know if Kalle Muuli's abstention is... You could still take a stand about whether you want to change or not. Just because it's not liquid or hard, it's no good. I think we should take off the yellow button here sometime. What do you mean, the vigilante is impartial? You're either in favour or against, and you're shaping your position. But that's it. I think it would be wise to send the draft to second reading, although I personally do not like the name, but at least then we can propose amendments. And, as I said, I would totally agree to propose an amendment, and I can also initiate it personally and also ask for signatures (for example, from Igor) that we are making him a European Affairs Committee. Indeed, I do not like, in principle, the fact that the European Union has assumed the right to speak on behalf of the whole of Europe. If Urmas Paet from Brussels says that the EKRE is not pro-European enough, then I am sorry. He is not the person who talks about Europe. The European spirit also means Switzerland, Norway, Liechtenstein and Andorra, they are also in Europe. Whether he likes it or not, the European Union has not alone the right to speak on behalf of Europe. Since we also have very close cooperation with other countries that are not in the European Union or who are now leaving it, why not go back a few steps in history, to the 1990s, when we actually had a European Affairs Commission. I'd love to, the abbreviation would be pretty polite, too, EAK. I would totally agree with that. Therefore, I see no reason why we should vote on this draft. Rather, it is a healing debate here, i.e. to talk about the nature and possible end of the European Union in the future. So I think that we could continue to discuss this at second reading with the amendment, a little bit by improving the name, making it more comfortable, so that it is not so clumsy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U123	There is no further wish for negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 414 at first reading. This proposal needs to be voted on. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs 414 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal of the Constitutional Commission was supported by 45 and 19 members of the Riigikogu opposed, with no abstentions. Draft 414 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U124	And we are already at the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of draft 402 amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, which was initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Arthur Talvik, for the starters, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U125	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I have good news for you. The Free Party has listened to you. Last time, we came up with a bill to give the Committee of Inquiry more levers, and in addition to the coercive money, there was also the possibility of coercion. Now we have come up with essentially the same bill again, but we have taken out the coercion and left only the mechanism of coercion. Perhaps this is the Act amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, which strengthens parliamentary control, by Bill 402. The point is that we have imposed a penalty of up to EUR 8 000 on the so-called non-obedience people who do not want to come to the Committee of Inquiry. And this enforcement mechanism can also be used repeatedly if the Commission has not been heard or documents have been sent. The current Home and Working Procedures Act states that a fine of EUR 300 could be imposed under a criminal sanction and that the court would be the judge. We all know this isn't gonna work. In order to be dealt with by the court, the police should also do preliminary work, but they cannot do so, as there may be problems with the integrity of the ambassador in the Riigikogu. I'm going to read you a few points as to why enforcement is better than punishment for misdemeanour. Firstly, it can be implemented until the objective is achieved, for example, until the documents are received. Perhaps it can be applied repeatedly in one case, while the penalty for wrongdoing can only be imposed once. In the case of a misdemeanour, the person may pay the fine and still fail to comply with the Commission's order. In the case of coercive money, failure to comply may become sufficiently complex and costly, however, forcing a person to comply with the obligation. Secondly, coercive money is not a punishment by definition, it is not recorded in the criminal record. This will also enable the non-law enforcement body to be given the power to impose coercive money and prevent an increase in the level of criminalisation of society. The draft deletes one composition from the catalogue of misdemeanours by contributing to reducing the general criminalisation of society. Thirdly, the current situation, where the work of the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry is not actually guaranteed by state coercion, cannot be resolved better than the introduction of coercive money. The court cannot proceed from the beginning of the offence provided for by the law in the current judicial area. Giving the police procedural competence is problematic because they must then invite members of the Riigikogu to give statements and receive information about the computers of the Riigikogu. This means that they are confronted with a problem of immunity. Thus, a functioning enforcement regime is the only possible solution. Otherwise, the work of the Committee of Inquiry will not be covered by the compulsion of the State and it will not be possible to carry out the task provided for by law and by the Constitution in the event of the return of persons. A similar mechanism exists for the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. They may apply a penalty of up to EUR 15000. But more precisely, everything is in the draft explanatory memorandum, so I would ask everyone to look at it. I very much hope that you will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U126	Would you like to ask the waitress any questions? That's not what you want. Thank you. I call Mr Padar, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur for the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U127	Hello, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this draft on 8 May 2017. As Mr Talvik has already said, a few months ago, we had a draft referring to an analogous problem here, and the current draft is somewhat more lenient than previous sanctions, and it is limited to the financial penalty. When I was here last time, I said there was a problem. At the time, we discussed that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should deal with this somewhat more and more. And in parallel with your draft, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed to the political groups how the situation could be resolved if the Committee of Inquiry is to be sidelined. Consequently, we discussed two points at a time in this session: this draft, which was submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to the political groups of the Riigikogu, as well as the draft that you submitted. Now for the extracts from the protocol, which specifically concerns the draft that you have submitted. Mr Jüri Adams received the floor, who said that the absence of a coercive measure in practice has demoralised the parliamentary committees and has taken away the desire to form them. Mr Helmut Hallemaa found that the draft text discussed under the previous item was more comprehensive and thoughtful. We are talking about this draft draft, which we submitted to the political groups for discussion and for which feedback will be received by 15 June. Jüri Adams found that the draft initiated by the Free Party was considerably shorter and more elegant in terms of the amount of the fine. I cannot answer now because, in the meantime, there was also a question as to where the level of the fine should be up to EUR 8 000. Arto Aas considered that the proposed amendment could lead to a situation where a person would appear before a committee of inquiry as a result of a coercive measure, but would not give any statement, and that the next step would be to impose a fine in the event of refusal of statements, which is already absurd. According to him, failure to appear before the Committee of Inquiry is not a major problem; people have explained their lack of appearance in the past, and instead important issues should be addressed. And decisions: a proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 17 May, to propose that it be rejected (in favour of it 9 and against 1) and to appoint Mr Ivari Padar (consensus) as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U128	Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. If I wish, I will open negotiations for the political groups. Please, Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U129	Mr President of the sitting! Unfortunately, I wasn't in the hall during either of the presentations. So I don't know if the rapporteurs mentioned that there was another element in rejecting this draft. In fact, the initiative of a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, or, let's say, of a coalition of government, to do the same work, but in a slightly different way and not in the name of the Free Party, but in its own name. If that wasn't the case, I'll be quick to refer. The problem is with the beard in the sense that for the first time it came up in my memory when it was 1997 and the special committee of SIA worked in the Riigikogu. The original reason for setting up this committee was that Estonian politician Edgar Savisaar had recorded his own conversations with other politicians and, in at least one case, organised the video recording of his meeting with Siim Kallas, the then leader of the Reform Party, without Kallas knowing it. Perhaps all of this would have remained unknown, but at least the audio tapes were available in a private company called SIA, which was involved in the provision of detective services, and they were found in the search there. The special committee that was set up then called for very different people to explain what they were. But one of the key information providers, namely Edgar Savisaar, announced that he would not come to this committee. I think it was suggested to him by renowned Estonian lawyers or lawyers of that time. Exactly what it was like, but from this moment on, the fate of all analogous investigative committees was determined in Estonia: either their work will fail completely or their work will only be partially successful. So for almost 20 years, it has been a problem whether the Estonian Parliament, in the form of its committee of inquiry, should have the opportunity to summon people who have knowledge of the matter or not. In the meantime, the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu also produced one of the reference material on how it is in the world. And it turns out that in a situation like Estonia, there are only a few other countries in the world, i.e. whose parliament does not have a substantive mandate for such a form of work. It exists in most countries. So that's the question. I think that the Free Party Group does not mind much if the same task, which we see as politically necessary and hope that others will also support, is carried out by someone else and perhaps in a slightly different form. It's okay. I do not know, at last, to whom Chinese politicians have been told this about Zhou Enlai in my time, the principle that it is not the colour of the cat that matters, but the cat that catches the mice. This principle, too, we have in this place completely... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U130	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U131	There's nothing wrong with it if it comes in a slightly different form. As long as it proves to be a workable instrument, not a cosmetic and non-cosmetic instrument, in the work of future special committees. This is how I remember that the staff of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs sent out a letter to all the political groups, which had to contain a draft of this. I do not know when the response was requested and whether the political groups have discussed it and whether the answers have come. If not, I call on you, honourable groups, to find the time to give your opinions. This is not, in principle, a party matter, nor is it just a question of the composition of this Riigikogu. This is a question about the quality of the future work of the Riigikogu. The possible fears in this regard are, in my opinion, not very serious. Why do I think that? In those countries of the world where, as I have heard, such a system works, honest people have never had anything to fear from such committees of inquiry and probably not in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U132	Peter Ernits, are you talking about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U133	I wanted to ask. Is it too late?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U134	We are in the round of negotiations. There is an open microphone waiting for you on this matter. You're quitting. The commission has proposed to reject draft 402. This proposal creates the need to vote, and we will do so in a few minutes. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 402 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 48 votes in favour and 13 members of the Riigikogu against, with 3 abstentions. The proposal was supported. Draft 402 has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U135	Today's third item is the third reading of the draft Customs Act 374 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. The commission has proposed a final vote on the draft 374. We will go to the preparations for the vote and, with your permission, it will be somewhat shorter because we have just voted. Honourable Riigikogu, since the adoption of Bill 374 as a law requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, we will do a verification of the presence. There are 73 members of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft customs law initiated by the Government of the Republic, 374. Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the population voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft law on customs has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U136	Today's fourth item is the third reading of the draft Act amending § 7 of the National Defence Act initiated by the National Defence Committee. Do the political groups want to initiate negotiations? That is not what I want, and I will not open negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 438. Let's get ready for this vote. Honourable Riigikogu, since the adoption of draft 438 as a law requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, we will do a verification of the presence. 76 members of the Riigikogu are present, 25 are missing. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending § 7 of the National Defence Act initiated by the National Defence Committee 438. Please take a stand and vote. The draft was voted in favour of 75 members of the population, no respondents or abstentions. The draft law amending § 7 of the National Defence Act has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U137	Today's fifth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and tobacco law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 380 on the draft. We will go to the preparation of the vote and it will probably be shorter again. Honourable colleagues, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending the Law on tobacco 380. Please take a stand and vote. 64 votes in favour and 4 against, with 5 abstentions. Bill 380 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U138	Sixth item: Approval of the Riigikogu decision 'Estonian Foundations of Security Policy' submitted by the Government of the Republic Second reading 395. Mr Madis Milling, Member of the National Defence Commission, will be a waitress for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U139	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 6 March. The first reading of the draft was completed on 3 May. No amendments were tabled to the draft by the deadline of 16 May, including 5.15 p.m. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading, including at its meeting on 18 May. By consensus, the Commission made some linguistic clarifications in the preamble to the draft, which are underlined in the text of the second reading of the draft. At this same meeting on 18 May, the National Defence Committee unanimously approved the text of the second reading and the explanatory memorandum. A few words from the additional provisions of the draft. The document on the basis of the basis of the security policy, which is in addition to the draft under discussion, provides a framework for assessing the security environment and determining the courses of action needed to ensure security. The aim of the security policy is derived from the Estonian Constitution, according to which the independence and independence of the Estonian state, the survival of the people and state, territorial integrity, constitutional order and the security of the population will be ensured. Based on a broad approach to security, the document focuses on those areas of state action that can be developed and strengthened with the help of security. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 18 May, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including by 31 May. The speaker was also appointed here to replace the chairman of the committee, who is on an external mission today. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, to put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U140	I, too, thank you, honored waitress. There are no questions for you. It is possible to open negotiations if you wish. For second reading, the microphone is open to everyone. That's not what you want. As we have heard, no amendments have been tabled to Bill 395. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on a draft of 395, followed by a brief preparation for this vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the approval of the Riigikogu's decision 'Estonian Foundations of Security Policy' presented by the Government of the Republic, draft 395. Please take a stand and vote. 75 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Draft 395 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U141	Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! Seventh item: Second reading of draft 404 of the Act on the Amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure and other Acts (Regulation (EU) No 655/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European Account Preservation Order procedure) initiated by the Government of the Republic to facilitate the cross-border recovery of debts in civil and commercial matters, the implementation and the establishment of a procedure under Protocol 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. I would like to ask Urve Tiidus, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs for a chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! No amendments to this draft were received by the deadline of 4 May. The procedure between the first and second readings took place at two meetings of the Commission, namely on 16 and 29 May. I will briefly recall what this law wants to regulate. Indeed, there is a European Account Preservation Order and now we are creating a regulation for the internal implementation of this regulation. Two things will then become easier: cross-border debt recovery in civil and commercial matters and the seizure of the debtor's bank accounts in the European Union. On 16 May, the party concerned, the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators, presented its views to the Commission, and the positions of the Supreme Court were broken down. Both were involved in the preparation of the draft. Indrek Niklus, Head of the Private Law Department of the Ministry of Justice's Legal Policy Department, Tanel Kalmet, Head of the Criminal Law and Procedure Department of the Criminal Policy Department, and Mati Kadak, Kristi Hunt and Angelina Mihhaljova, representatives of the Board of Governors of the bankruptcy took part in the discussion. According to the bailiffs and the Chamber of Bankruptcy Administrators, this bill does not have a child's maintenance requirement in the first place, just as the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic 2015 has set itself the objective of ensuring children's livelihood. The representatives of the Chamber stressed that the child's maintenance requirement must always take first place in order. It is currently the case that, once the EAPO has been enforced, a child's maintenance claim will not be enforced in the first place and the EAPO will be given more priority. There was also a longer debate in the Commission on this issue. Indrek Niklus explained the position of the Ministry. Indeed, child maintenance requirements should always be the first in the Estonian legal order, but nothing contrary to the European Union regulation can be regulated by our national law. Thus, if the child's maintenance claim arrives later, it does not go beyond the order, but if it arrives earlier, it is either above or otherwise. Members of the Commission were also given a vital example of the seizure of a self-employed bank account and of what it means when the child's maintenance requirement is not in the first place. The Commission was also asked what it would mean in practice if this regulation were to conflict with it. According to a representative of the Ministry of Justice, this may mean that a supervisory procedure may be initiated, insofar as Estonia has not then transposed the regulation correctly. There was also the question of whether Europe could not ask for a position on this matter, i.e. against the wish to go. The explanation was that there was no legal mechanism to ask for such an opinion. And the Commission also took the view that the risk of obtaining a fine was more theoretical. The Committee on Legal Affairs therefore considered that the maintenance requirements of children should be given priority and should be formulated in the draft in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Directors Chamber in view of the rights of children. This first time, the observations of the Supreme Court were also discussed, which have been made in relation to the part of the draft concerning the possibility of suspending the proceedings while asking the European Court of Human Rights for an advisory opinion. Some procedural decisions were also taken on 16 May, but at the end of this more precisely. On 29 May the Committee on Legal Affairs dealt with draft 404 further. Again, representatives of the Ministry, Indrek Niklus, Head of the Private Legal Service of the Legal Policy Department, and Advisor Stella Johanson, and Adviser to the Criminal Law and Procedure Department of the Criminal Policy Department, Markus Kärner, were invited. The two amendments initiated by the previous debate and initiated by the Commission received further explanations at this meeting of the Commission. Indrek Niklus reiterated the previously expressed idea that the execution of the EAPO would take place as a one-off seizure and would not allow other seizures to be brought forward at national level. However, the proposed amendment would ensure that the child's maintenance claim goes ahead of the detention imposed under the Preservation Order. Indrek Niklus also admitted that the proposed amendment would be beneficial for children, since it would allow maintenance claims to be met later on at the expense of the amount seized, but stressed that, as a result of the conflict with the Regulation, the Ministry did not support the proposal. The Commission was also asked to explain the consequences of Estonia taking a decision contrary to this regulation. Indrek Niklus repeated what he said at the earlier sitting that if the European Commission analyses the matter and concludes that our national law is not in line with this regulation, infringement proceedings could be opened. One member of the Commission also expressed his surprise that in other countries children have not been given the advantage that the Committee on Legal Affairs proposes. According to Indrek Niklus, this is due to the fact that in other countries (e.g. Finland) public funds operate on other bases than us, and this is not the case. In any case, the wish of the Committee on Legal Affairs to put the children forward with the amendment was 7 votes in favour, no one opposed, with three abstentions. The Commission also initiated another amendment. This is a technical specification. The Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure provide for the possibility of suspending the proceedings while seeking an advisory opinion from the European Court of Human Rights. According to the proposal of the Supreme Court, the draft now contains references to specific procedural time limits, as no other time limits are provided for by the Codes. According to the draft, in the event of suspension of proceedings, the time limits laid down shall be interrupted and, at the end of the suspension, the time limit shall start to run again in full. This technical amendment received 10 votes in favour, no votes against or abstentions. But before this consensual decision was made, there was also a question of how many statistically significant misdemeanours may occur in the European Court of Human Rights, on which these deadlines may be longer. The answer was very little: there have been a couple of misdemeanors. The European Court of Human Rights is still the most sought-after opinion on criminal matters. As I have already mentioned, procedural decisions were taken on 16 May and were as follows: a proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 31 May, i.e. today (this was a consensual decision), a proposal to close the second reading (also consensually), a proposal to send the draft to third reading when the second one is closed, by 7 June (consensually again) and a proposal to then also pass the final vote on the draft. This was also a consensual decision by Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Külliki Kübarsepp, Liisa Oviir, Toomas Paur, Raivo Aeg, Urve Tiidus and Jaanus Karilaid. This is how draft 404 was dealt with and prepared for a second reading in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U143	The first question is asked by Laine Randjärv. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U144	Thanks to the manager! Thanks to the waitress! At the end of your presentation, you said that there was a question of statistics in the Commission. I also intend to ask you about statistics, but in the Estonian context, maybe just to broaden the horizon. How many cases have there been in Estonia, say, in the last five or ten years? If there are a few cases in the European Court of Justice in one year, what do Estonian statistics show?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U145	Thank you for that question. This concerns asking the European Court of Human Rights for an advisory opinion both in criminal proceedings and in misdemeanour proceedings. As I have already mentioned here, there have been a few cases of misdemeanour that are being referred to the Court of Human Rights and may have been delayed in recent times. In most cases, questions are asked about the subject of criminal proceedings, and this number of appeals is definitely higher than two pieces. There's a smartest lady sitting there, a memory failing, but there's still been a few decades.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U146	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions. I am opening negotiations because Mr Helme has expressed his wish for this. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U147	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't talk very long. Estonia is a country that suffers from persistent and deep impairments of sovereignty. And we see every day the smaller and bigger steps with which our sovereignty is being further restricted and demolished. Of course, I am talking about the regulations of the European Union and the directives of the European Union. The regulations are even tougher than the directives. But let us be honest, the officials who rule Estonia interpret both in a way that is rare elsewhere in Europe and that is always the worst and most harmful option for us. The fact that we are also going to subdue our judicial system as much as possible, to the greatest extent possible and with the smallest, long and tight threads possible, to the structures of the European Union is another long step towards the final elimination of sovereignty, which is completely unacceptable for our party. Therefore, the Conservative People's Party Group proposes that the second reading of this draft be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U148	Two amendments have been tabled to Bill 404 and we will examine them together. Both have been proposed by the lead committee. First amendment, decision of the Committee on Legal Affairs: take full account. Second amendment, decision of the commission: take full account. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 404, but, as we have just heard, one group has proposed to interrupt the second reading of this draft. We have to vote on this. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to interrupt the second reading of Bill 404. Please take a stand and vote. There were 7 votes in favour and 58 members of the Riigikogu against. The proposal was not supported. The proposal of the commission, I recall, is to conclude the second reading of Bill 404. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U149	Eighth item: Second reading of draft law amending traffic law, motor insurance law and state fees law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Siim Kisler, member of the Economic Commission for the speech, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U150	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Traffic Act and the State Fees Act between the first and second reading at two sessions: 18 and 29 May. Hindrek Allvee, Head of Transport and Traffic Services of the Road and Rail Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Sven Nurk, Chief Specialist of the same department, also took part in the meeting. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees within the deadline set. However, eight amendments were received for consideration by the Commission from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications as the initiator's representative. All eight proposals were fully taken into account and all these decisions were taken by consensus. So there was no debate on this issue. A further debate was held at the Commission meeting on two issues. First of all, the question arose: if a person has been issued a driving licence in one EU Member State but resides permanently in another EU Member State, where and how he should apply for a new driving licence when the old one has expired. It was explained that in the future it will be that, if, for example, a person with an Estonian driving licence has moved to Finland permanently, this is the most frequent case we have and the period of validity of the licence is about to end, the exchange of the licence will no longer be carried out in Estonia. If a person has moved permanently to Finland, he or she will apply for a new driving licence in Finland. And this new permit applied for in Finland is also valid in Estonia. If he or she has to change his or her driving licence again in the future, he or she shall apply for it in the country in which he or she resides permanently. Secondly, there was also a debate on the question that this draft law would, as a matter of fact, exempt vehicles travelling only in the smaller islands from the requirement of a technical inspection. They don't need to have a technical inspection done. However, their owners must ensure the technical maintenance of the vehicle. The question was whether, from the point of view of motor insurance, in the event of an accident, these cars would still be treated in the same way as others. If the driver causes an accident or otherwise gets involved in an accident, do motor insurance conditions apply to him in the same way? Does the conditions for compensation apply even if no technical examination has been carried out? We have received confirmation from the originator's representative and also from the driver of the motor insurance fund that the conditions for motor insurance apply equally to these vehicles, so that there is no problem in this regard. In procedural terms, it was decided to submit the draft to the Riigikogu for a second reading today with a proposal to terminate the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading on 7 June and to put the draft to the final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus within the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U151	Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Now is the opportunity to start negotiations. There is no request to speak. Eight proposals have been submitted to amend the draft 406. Let's go through them together. We've all been presented by the lead committee. Amendment 1 from the Economic Commission, decision of the lead committee: take full account. The same applies to proposals 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. All amendments have been fully taken into account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 406. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U152	The next item is the second reading of Draft Explosives Act 418 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present a speech chair to Märt Sults, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U153	Honorable Chairman! Colleagues! I'm honored to report to you the material on Bill 418. The Government of the Republic initiated a draft law on explosives. a on 3 April. To remind colleagues that the draft intends to introduce a new full text of the Explosives Act on the handling of explosives and pyrotechnic articles. The purpose of the draft is to ensure that the handling of explosives and pyrotechnic articles is safe and does not endanger human life and health, property and the environment. The aim is also to ensure security, to prevent the unlawful use of explosives and pyrotechnic articles. The purpose of the law does not change. The first reading of the bill took place on 10 May. The deadline for tabling amendments was 16 May at 5 p.m. No proposals were made by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. The Commission received its comments and proposals on the draft by the Association of Estonian Mining Industries Enterprises. The working group of the Economic Commission prepared the draft for discussion at the meeting of the Commission at its meeting on 26 May. The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the representative of the Association of Estonian Mining Industries also participated. The preparation for the second reading of the draft was discussed by the Commission at its meeting on 29 and 30 May, with the participation of a representative of the initiator. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to make three amendments to the draft, two of which were tabled by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and one by the Association of Estonian Mining Industries Enterprises. There are three amendments in total and these are the proposals of the lead committee, which received our unanimous support. The reasons are set out in the explanations contained in the list of amendments. These proposals are as follows: First, delete § 15 (2) of the draft, changing the numbering of the following paragraph. Explanation simple: it is a deletion of an redundant provision, so it is simply a technical issue. Second amendment: amend § 30 (2) (1) of the draft and formulate it differently. Explanation: the amendment replaces the words 'in the city, in the town or in the village' with 'in the settlement with good health'. In the same context, the phrase 'a good settlement' has also been used in § 34 (1) (2) of the draft and has also been explained in the explanatory memorandum. The third amendment is to replace the number 50 by 25. This means that dangerous detonation begins, not from a depth of 50 metres, but from a depth of 25 metres. This was also a consensual decision, as this amendment was also based on technical monitoring acts. We asked the men of the mining industry for these acts and studies and got them for exactly the right day and time. So the cooperation was very correct and effective. We had no reason to doubt this figure and was replaced by 50 meters 25 metres. These changes were fully taken into account by the Economic Commission as the lead committee. The procedural decisions of the commission were as follows: We decided to propose that the draft be put on the agenda for the plenary session of the Riigikogu for a second reading on 31 May and that the second reading be closed and that when the second reading is completed, the draft be put to the final vote on 7 June. This document has been signed and the entire draft has been discussed several times in the Committee on Economic Affairs. We received exhaustive answers to all our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U154	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. Would you like to negotiate?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U155	Thank you very much and for your strength.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U156	You too! There are no requests to speak. There are three proposals to amend the 418, as we have just heard. We'll take a look at them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The decision on the second and third amendments is the same, and the decision of the commission is to take them fully into account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 418. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U157	10th item: Second reading of the draft law amending the Estonian Central Register of Securities Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I invite the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Mikhail Stalnukhin, to give a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U158	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission met twice to discuss this draft law: on 18 and 29 May. Between the two readings, letters were sent to interested organisations, with seven of them: Supreme Court, Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators, Financial Supervision Authority, Police and Border Guard Board, NGO Finance Estonia and the House of Notaries. We all got answers. The three organisations announced that they had no proposals, while the four representatives invited the Commission to a meeting and five amendments to the draft were tabled during these negotiations. One amendment was tabled by the Group of the Centre Party and three other amendments are of a precise and technical nature. In fact, there was another appeal brought by the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators. They pointed out that it is necessary to find a solution to the risk that, as a result of changes to the draft, potential CSDs that may become active in Estonia on a cross-border basis may not comply with the orders of bailiffs because they are not physically located on the territory of the Republic of Estonia. We discussed this situation and found that this threat really is. Unfortunately, we cannot impose our laws on the other side of the border and, in fact, it is one of the issues that needs to be discussed at the level of the European Union in the near future. The Ministry of Finance has promised to deal with this. Now for more details on the amendments. The first is drawn up on the basis of proposals made by AS Eesti Sütsekeskus. There are seven of them in total, but all on one subject: the aim is to make voluntary pension fund shares from the entry into force of the draft into general scheme the subject of the pension register. Since more than one information system may be used to maintain the pension register, the use of different information systems does not prevent all units of pension funds, including voluntary funds, from being included in the pension register. The second amendment is to be clarified. This is because the reserve capital requirement and the basis for calculating the operational costs associated with it are imposed on the pension registrar and not on the registrars of other securities. The third amendment has been drawn up on the basis of the proposal of the Financial Supervision Authority and it removes § 10 (1) from the draft. The introduction of this provision could have led to an undesirable situation in which the funds received through the divestment of claims are considered to be an inclusion within the meaning of the activity of the credit institution. The Ministry of Finance announced solemnly that they intend to resolve this issue in a complex way next year as part of the development of the single currency regulation. The fourth amendment is that of the Centre Party Group and is intended to supplement the draft with § 23 amending § 10 of the Guarantee Fund Act. The purpose of the proposal is to harmonise the rules on the recall of members of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund in the Guarantee Fund Act with those laid down for other similar councils. The amendment allows the appointment of a member of the Governing Council to recall his or her member at any time. Next, Amendment 5. This has been done by NGO Finance Estonia and maybe the biggest interest in it was when we met the interest groups. This is the threshold for drawing up a prospectus. In the current law, it is EUR 100000, which is well below the threshold for our neighbours: EUR 2.5 million in Finland, between EUR 100000 and EUR 5 million in Latvia, with the requirement to present some kind of proof which does not have the meaning of the prospectus, but is descriptive, and EUR 5 million in Lithuania. It was unanimously decided that this limit should be EUR 2,5 million. Amendment 6 follows from the Euro Directive and I will mention it as well. Article 4 (2) (f) of the Prospectus Directive makes no distinction between offers by issuers located inside or outside the European Union and leaves no room for national rules to do so. In accordance with that provision, Paragraph 1323 (1) (10), from which certain words are deleted, is also amended and paragraph 11 of the same paragraph is deleted. The seventh proposal is editorial: it is necessary to change the numbering in order to comply with the numbering of the corresponding points of the amendments to the Securities Market Act that have already been adopted. The eighth proposal is also editorial, once again it is a renumbering exercise. The last, ninth amendment amends the time of the general meeting. At present, it is possible to determine the number of participating shareholders on the same day as the general meeting, now a seven-day notice is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U159	You have a question. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! First of all, I would like to congratulate you on the amendment to this draft concerning the amendment of the Guarantee Fund law. This will give the Committee on Monetary Affairs the opportunity to decide to appoint you as a member of the Board of the Guarantee Fund very soon. I have a question about the same fourth amendment concerning the amendment of the Guarantee Fund Act. Its text differs from the text proposed by the authors of the amendment. There came the words 'calling a new member'. I remember we discussed this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but educate me: can an amendment be written in the course of the work, the text of which is different from the text proposed by the proposer?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U161	Thank you for your question. I want to fix you right now. I don't know where you took this information from, but I'm not a member of the Board of the Guarantee Fund that you just called me. Personally, I think it's too late for me to learn the wisdom of financial science above average. I believe it is necessary to give way to young people. We'll probably find someone who can become a big politician and who's a smart finance man, but that's for sure it's not me. As regards the fact that an amendment was made in this form, as we talked about in the Commission, it is a normal working process: with the agreement of the initiators, the wording of the amendment may be changed. I would remind you that at the committee meeting we discussed whether this was possible and received the Commission's staff's reply that everything was legal and normal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U162	No further questions. Thank you, dear waitress. I'll open negotiations if that's what I want. There are no requests to speak. As you have heard, nine proposals have been put forward to amend draft 428. We will go to the examination of the amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The third is the same: the Committee on Monetary Affairs has proposed, the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take them fully into account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 428. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U163	Today's 11th item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Animal Protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'd like to invite the Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamme to the speaker's desk for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U164	Very honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Let me briefly present the draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals. The Law on the Protection of Animals governs the protection of animals against acts or omissions which endanger or threaten the health or welfare of animals. Currently, the public display of animals is regulated by §27 Animal Protection Act, Public Showing of Animals, and §28 Animal Lands. According to the current law, only farmed animals are allowed to be used at an animal exhibition, competition, fair, auction or other public event involving the bringing of animals together. The aim of amending the law is to ensure better protection and welfare of publicly displayed animals. Therefore, only farmed animals of species or subspecies whose species-specific behaviours or lifestyles allow such use in zoos other than those authorised for that purpose are permitted under the draft. According to the draft law, a list of animal species and subspecies authorised for use at an animal exhibition, competition, fair, auction or any other public event involving the bringing of animals together shall be established by regulation of the Minister responsible for the field. According to the draft implementing act, a domestic dog, a domestic cat, a domestic rabbit, a domestic horse, a domestic ass, a domestic animal, a domestic goat, a domestic bovine animal, a domestic sheep, an alpaca, a llama, a domestic ferret, a domestic chicken, a domestic duck, a domestic quail, a domestic goose and a domestic turkey can be shown publicly in this way. The list of animal species in the draft implementing act has been drawn up on the basis of practice, i.e. which animals are intended to be demonstrated at a public event. The amendment does not concern the display of animals in a zoo authorised to operate. In order to be authorised in a zoo, an application must be submitted to the Environmental Board. In addition to the above changes, the requirement that an animal tester should draw up and submit to the Rescue Board an emergency plan for the protection of humans and the environment in the event of an accident before carrying out an animal test on genetically modified animals and using the premises selected for this purpose is amended. According to the draft, such a plan will no longer have to be submitted to the Rescue Board, as the Rescue Board is not a special scheme body within the meaning of the Animal Protection Act. It does not exercise national supervision over compliance with the requirements of the Animal Protection Act but responds to an accident on the basis and in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Rescue Act. Thus, the Rescue Board does not need a plan referred to in § 56 (1) of the Animal Protection Act to resolve cases. Even without this plan, the Rescue Board will react if the threat needs to be eliminated or rescued. In summary, according to the draft, only animals whose species-specific behaviours or lifestyles allow it to be displayed openly in the future outside zoos without harming the animal's health. The list of animal species is given as a positive reading, i.e. a list of the species of animals whose public display is permitted. The regulation will involve the best experts in its field and will also take into account research commissioned to draw up similar lists in other countries. According to the draft Act, the entry into force of the Act is foreseen on 1 June 2018. This deadline has been set taking into account the fact that, after informing the European Commission of the amendment to the technical regulation and the provision of services in the internal market, there will be sufficient time for undertakings to restructure their activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U165	The round of questions will be opened by Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U166	Good waitress! I have this problem that I think the animals are a little too healthy. Look, you were talking about the animals you showed up in public. If you don't mind, I'll ask who's hiding in secret. The subject is actually a boar. Nothing as bad as it is now in Estonia has ever been. They're infecting the house, but as far as I know, the Ministry of the Environment has done nothing. What happens next? How far can we go to protect animals? And what can we do to ensure that animals are not too protected and that, for example, wild boars are less healthy?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U167	Honourable member of the Riigikogu! This is a very topical issue today. Just today, the ministry said that, fortunately, there has been no infection of the disease in domestic pigs for 10 months. If we can last another two months, we should get rid of zone three. This would be a major step towards ensuring that our pig farmers receive a fair price. But feral pigs are combated, and combated very effectively. The number of wild boars has fallen dramatically. Hunters have solid plans. It is foreseen that there could be an average of 1.5 or 1.7 boars per 1000 square kilometres, and there are areas where it has already been filled. Now, if I remember correctly, 38000 boars were hunted last night, maybe 18,000 last year. This number is decreasing at a high rate. It is believed that 6,000 boars will no longer be hunted this year, as the number of pigs in the forest has fallen so much. I think that a major mistake was made in those days when wild boars were simply used to develop tourism. Tourists were brought to Estonia and were happy to hunt boars. It is not unknown that there were such public pigs in the forest, where grain was carried by load, and where the animal concentration was high. That's how disease developed there. I myself have had a good concrete experience in this regard. The first disease of infected boar was found near my home, and I can tell that this disease has cleared the forest quite a bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U168	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, You had a very interesting list of animals here. Of course, we all understand that we have no doubt about the distinction between wild boar and domestic swine. At the same time, an interesting animal like a ferret has been mentioned here. It's a solitary example. My question is: will the Ministry, on a case-by-case basis, order individual expert analyses to determine whether, for example, the specimen shown at the fair is a domestic ferret or a wild ferret?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U169	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U170	Thank you for a good question. Well, it's something specialists need to appreciate. Before coming to the honorable ambassadors, I looked up on the Internet to see what kind of animal was an alpaca and what kind of llama. I found out they're very pretty wool-bearing animals. I'll learn. In general, I think it will remain the responsibility of the specialists, and I will certainly not be part of the evaluation committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U171	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U172	I was very pleased with your answer to my first question, because the problem of feral pigs is still very bad in some places. A former madman is on islands, for example, which are inevitably isolated from the mainland. What if there was now a question of destroying the wild boar population in the West Estonian islands? I'll probably raise that question, but I just want to know what you think first. I'm not afraid to launch such a thing alone, but this step would actually be very wise, and the vets are in favour of it. As minister, would you agree in principle? We're talking about the eradication of the population, which means a few or three thousand will remain and the population will recover in ten years. If you set it as a goal, is it too brutal?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U173	I think it may be too brutal, but it is absolutely necessary to achieve the target number of pigs per square kilometre. The only problem area where this figure has not been reached is probably Saaremaa. This is also what the European Commission is accusing us of, in particular, the Commissioner for Food Safety, Andriukaitis. Happily tomorrow, there will be a meeting of Andriukaitis in Riga with three Baltic agriculture ministers and our Polish counterparts in relation to African swine fever. This issue is topical and it is not just a matter for our country. As you can recall, 5,000 pigs were executed in Latvia some time ago or around it. This does not only concern one country and all the countries concerned must cooperate. The boar doesn't look at the border, it's still moving to where the best forage land is. This is a common concern and the disease is being combated together. I don't think nature's gonna get quite clean. Even if we try to do that, there are still sick animals coming in from somewhere else. There has to be a balance in nature, and I don't think a person should get involved. If a person had not intervened, the number of wild boars in Estonia would not have been so high.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U174	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U175	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Let's talk a little bit about the meaning of words, an animal show and a circus. I'm sure you know well that the animal guards have suggested that the word 'Circus' be clearly written into the bill, but the drafters have thought that the word 'Animal Exhibition' includes the circus. But I don't think a person in common language connects an animal show to a circus. You have certainly studied with your specialists why it is important that the word 'Circus' is not mentioned separately in the draft. However, would this not make this bill more understandable and better?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U176	Thank you for your question. Yeah, the circus is actually an animal show. If you're going to watch an animal trick, you're going to watch an animal. But I can tell you how the use of animals is regulated in other countries. The use of all animals in circuses is prohibited in Greece. The use of all wild animals in circuses is prohibited in Austria, Croatia, Malta, Slovenia, Hungary and Latvia. In Finland, Belgium and Bulgaria, large cats, bears, elephants and monkeys are prohibited in the circus. In Portugal, the use of monkeys and animals listed in CITES is prohibited in the circus. In Sweden, the use of monkeys and predators, including large cats, is prohibited in the circus. In Denmark, the use of wild animals other than Asian elephant, camel and llama is not allowed in the circus. In the Czech Republic, the use of primate, loose, cemeteries and giraffes in circuses is not allowed. So it is regulated differently in different countries, and I think Estonia is moving in the right direction, because in the zoo we can all look at these animals. Tallinn Zoo is very rich in species, so we should not miss anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U177	Madis Milling, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U178	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm still trying to figure out the limit that distinguishes between domestic animals and wild animals. A cub picked up by hunters in the woods and raised among people, which one is a domestic animal or a wild animal? The definition of this is likely to be relatively difficult. As a comment, I would also like to say that the zoo is also an animal exhibition by its very nature. So how will it be regulated?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U179	This law does not regulate the zoo. It concerns those animals which have been farmed. Only animals raised at home or somewhere else may be used for public exhibitions. But those raised in the wild must not be demonstrated outside the zoo. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U180	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U181	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, animal welfare and protection are a very important issue. You mentioned certain animals that are covered and influenced by this law. But I had the question that different birds could also be used in exhibitions and circuses. We might as well wonder why we're not protecting birds. Is there a reason or a reason for this, or is it because European Union law only requires that animals be dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U182	I think this has to do with how European Union law regulates this area. The birds are really left out of it. If we consider that we need to regulate it in some way separately, it is possible to propose amendments during the draft procedure, and then the Commission will evaluate them, and we will find a reasonable solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U183	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U184	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I read that list and I had a few questions. Soon the Vastzelina Fair will be here and not just this. For example, there is no ondatra on this list, there is no nutria, there is no chinchilla, there is no guinea fowl ♪ this list could be continued. Where did this discrimination come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U185	This list has been drawn up by specialists. I think these are animals that are actually raised at home. This list does not cover animals that grow in the forest, in the wild.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U186	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U187	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! To continue with the question of Monika, I ask you that right now we have the whole bird thing restricted. Chickens can't be anywhere without a fence around them. Can you tell me if at some point this limit will disappear? As a result of avian influenza, the chickens kept on the land must be limited to the garden. Don't you need it at some point?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U188	The moment is on hold to prevent avian influenza from reaching our chicken farms. It's so we don't have to take out some big chicken farms. Lately, I read that a farm in Japan was eradicated, which must have had 1 million chickens. That's where the army was called to help with the execution of all these chickens. This is serious. But why does this limit apply to the keeping of poultry? Mostly because there's no avian influenza in any zone. If an outbreak is detected on a farm near a chicken farm, this farm will also be part of a three - mile - or ten - km - zone. If we can avoid this, the poultry sector will not suffer. If you ask me about this limitation, as a minister, I cannot tell you when it will be taken down. But I know that when the bird migration season is over, when the birds are already nesting, the Food and Veterinary Office has promised to remove this restriction. So you can still get a chicken in the backyard somewhere in the dirt, and you can easily show these chickens to the kids. It is simply a preventive measure so that our poultry is not put at risk. In the nearest countries avian influenza has occurred in Lithuania, perhaps also in Sweden or on an island in Finland. So it's pretty close to our region. We are trying to prevent this and not to repeat the mistake we made in the outbreak of swine disease. At the moment, we can say that we have done well. There have been no cases of avian influenza in Estonia. But that's up to the specialists when they're gonna take that restriction down. It has been said that this will happen when the bird migration season is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U189	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U190	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I'm starting to feel like the Ministry is about to regulate the flea circus and the lice. But when it comes to these animals, I don't really know that it's okay to catch lions, tigers and elephants anywhere. Maybe somewhere. However, if one of these animals is caught and happens to be pregnant and have sons, the bill says that these sons can be sent straight to the circus. Animals are also taken directly from nature, including the Estonian Zoo, to zoos. It is true that the paper has read how animals are taken to the zoo and that part of it is received joyfully. Why is there such an unreasonable distinction that when defending some, they rush to the front of the archaic, but others are forgotten?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U191	As you can see, in this list of animals that can be used in public exhibitions, there is no lion and tiger. One facet is the welfare of these animals, and the other facet is the danger they pose. So the lion and the tiger are out of the question. If you catch a lion or a tiger anywhere, I don't know what you're gonna do to him, but you can't go to a public show with him.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U192	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U193	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I look at this map of Europe and I do not understand this logic well. In Greece, even the strictest country can not be used in the circus of trained domestic animals. In some parts of our northern neighbours, bears and monkeys cannot be used in circuses, but in Denmark they can again. What's the logic here? Animals are one, the European Union is one, but in Greece, trained dogs cannot be used in circuses, but elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U194	That is the question of choice, which depends on how animal-friendly the country is and what decisions it takes. It is not necessary, in itself, to keep a circus for this purpose and to keep animals in these enclosed cages for weeks and months and to carry them around to be seen by the people. I don't know what kind of animal it could be, what you can see in the circus, but not in the Tallinn Zoo. I don't think there's an animal like that. There is no circus in Estonia, we are performing nomadic circuses. I think we're protecting animals, more generally the whole of nature. No exciting animal will be missed by children. Visit the Tallinn Zoo! And there's a Riga Zoo pretty close. You don't have to go to the circus for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U195	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U196	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, first of all, thank you for a very good and exhaustive answer to my previous question. But I'm just gonna ask you if I got your answer right. Is the ban on the free movement of chickens national, or is it valid 10 kilometers from a bird farm? You once called me 10 kilometers. It's just that the voters are asking me, and I can give them an exhaustive answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U197	Thank you for a good question. Perhaps I expressed myself imprecisely, but if a bird flu is discovered on domestic chickens near a bird farm, it may also be the largest chicken farm in Estonia, then it will immediately enter the danger zone and its production will be difficult to sell. The biggest chicken farm is in the Loo settlement. If a bird flu is discovered somewhere near there on somebody's chickens, this big farm will be in a danger zone and all trade will be difficult. There's a three-mile zone and a ten-mile zone. In essence, it is the same regulation as for pigs. At the moment, we hold our breath so that we can manage for another two months in Estonia without cases of African swine fever, then we can get out of the third zone. It's very difficult to sell out of the zone, prices are very different. In general, I hope that the Food and Veterinary Office will, in the near future, remove this restriction on poultry farming. But that is true across Estonia, not in certain regions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U198	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U199	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! The draft regulation of the Ministry of Rural Affairs seems to be still open to proposals and additions, with three points at the end. To continue the discussion in this Chamber yesterday, I ask you this: how do you feel about the proposal to add a decoy duck and a partybroiler to the list, especially when they are trained?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U200	I know that the honourable members of the Free Party are currently working very actively on this issue. If you propose this at the time of the amendments, the Commission will probably consider this very carefully. Maybe you can even add two drafts. So I wish you luck. That is for Parliament to decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U201	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U202	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! You were talking about the wild boar population in Estonia. When you meet hunters, have you expressed the opinion that there could be about the same number of boars in Estonia as in Finland, where there are just under 2000 boars? What have they said to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U203	There is one thing I can say: the hunters are not happy now, because it is no longer the hunt they are now carrying out. It's just a mass execution, mass killing. They're not happy. The number of pigs hunted in Saaremaa, for example, reached thousands, if I am not mistaken. According to the European Commission, on average 1.7 boar per 1000 square kilometres could be normal. In this case, they imagine that the risk of disease will be low in the future. Hunters will understand that all this has gone too far, what they have to do right now. It doesn't make them happy. However, this European Commission's norm must be respected somehow. As regards 2000 boars in Finland, given the size of the neighbouring country's territory, this figure is more or less in line with this requirement. Of course, I haven't exactly calculated. But yes, we have to stick to this norm and move that way, because we are being thrown at our situation all the time. If we do not comply with this requirement and if there is another accident, it may be difficult to obtain additional funds from the European Union. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U204	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U205	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Here you will find out in which cases animals should not be exposed. My question is that very often we exhibit and also have animals in pet shops, where some animals certainly spend a very long period of their lives. It's not in the animal's interest. Did you consider or consider it important to consider extending the animal welfare law to pet shops and animals?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U206	I have several pets at home and I'm not happy either when I visit a pet store and see mice running around in that cage. This is really not the subject of this draft. If you think that this could be included in the draft, then make an amendment. At the same time, we may take the joy of many people acquiring a pet in the family, which can become very sweet to the child and create animal love in him. I think that this is a very delicate issue, and it is difficult to decide which borders could be limited. But there could be a way to buy a pet from a store. Pet shops are places where you can legally buy an animal or a bird and you know he is not sick. So that's a two-way question. I feel sorry for these animals, too, but I hope that they will be bought quickly and that they will have good families where they will be cared for. It's my only hope.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U207	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U208	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! You didn't answer Madis Milling's question clearly enough to understand. You said you wouldn't push that commission to go to the events and check it out. But how is this going to happen on the bureaucracy side? How? After all, there are many farms that have saved little bears and boars and raised them. I've been to a farm like this in Võrumaa myself. Aren't they going under this law? After all, they have been in so-called "incarnated" for many years, perhaps even in their early lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U209	This law deals with the public display of animals. If there are such cases in someone's home and there are such cases and, for example, the cub he has saved, the animal must not be seen in public. If someone has to make such an animal at home, there's no way to legalize it. How do you legalize? And actually, a bear at home is also a danger to the neighborhood. Who's in charge? A wild animal is a wild animal. You can keep the bear at home, but if that bear gets loose one day and goes through the fence to the neighbor's family, where are the little kids, then what? How can it be legalized? I can't imagine. This whole law, however, still refers to farmed animals.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U210	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U211	Thank you, good minister. President-in-Office of the Council. My last question still remained unanswered. What happens when a wild animal is caught in the forest, pregnant and farmed, giving birth to its young? I understand this mother is not allowed to show anyone, not even relatives, but with her cubs, do whatever you want to take her to the circus, the animal store or the fair. Where's the logic here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U212	The logic is in this bill. It says all the animals affected by the bill. If you read it, you'll see it's all there. I can read you that list. If that's what a honourable member of the Riigikogu wants, I will. It's a pretty long list.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U213	Well, the Hatter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U214	Thank you. You didn't answer me about bureaucracy. What must a person wanting to exhibit his pets do? How is this really gonna happen? Please introduce it! I look from the coordination table that the Estonian Animal Protection Association has made a number of proposals and paid attention to regulating stray animals. When and even if the Ministry of Rural Affairs is planning to deal with it? I understand that since this issue has not been marked in the intention of being developed, it has not been discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U215	The subject of animals is topical. In the near future, we'll meet the people of the Food and Veterinary Office. We appreciate situations where, for example, a horse is left in a wretched state and try to analyze why they have not responded in time and taken measures. All of this also applies to other domestic animals, how they are treated, etc. I'm sure we need to move on here, maybe adjust the law. But we must not accept that humans are torturing animals. This is not the argument that an animal is their property. They have to walk with the animals and take care of them. So there will certainly be a debate on this. Maybe it's time to change the law, too. However, as far as this bill is concerned, there is no bureaucracy in this case, and I also do not see that it could arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U216	Uno Kaskpeit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U217	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Here's the question. Is a mink a domestic animal or a wild animal? Some kind of company of active people has wanted to ban mink farming. How do you view it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U218	When I read that list, I don't see mink here. One argument for banning mink farms was that if they get into the wild, they would ruin the balance of our nature. This is one of the most fundamental arguments brought about by the fight against mink farms. But as you can see, there is no mink on this list.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U219	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I would like to remind you that this is a first reading of the draft, so Mr Ammas' question on decoy ducks may be discussed again in preparation for the second reading. For example, decoy ducks are always seen at fairs. Siret Kotka-Repinski, Member of the Rural Commission, will make a presentation on behalf of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U220	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This draft law was dealt with in the Committee on Rural Affairs on 9 May. In addition to the members of the Commission, Sirje Jalakas, Head of the Office of the Food Safety Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs for the Protection of Animals and Breeding of Farm Animals, who made comments, was invited. I'm not going to introduce the bill here any further. The Minister has already explained everything. However, I will pass on some of the ideas raised in the Commission. The Commission was interested in whether the draft also meant that fish or earthworms should no longer be used as an element of interior design in the aquarium. It was explained that there is a separate point for aquarium exposure and that aquariums can continue to be used as an interior design element. So aquariums don't fall under that law. Interested in the way water parks work. The plan is, as we know, to build a dolphinarium in Estonia. Water parks operate on the basis of a zoo licence. So this question does not concern the subject of this bill. There was also an interest in the fact that the annual open farm days are coming and whether or not the farms can show their animals. Yes, farms can show their animals because they are not the primary purpose of farms. Farms still act to obtain animal products. So on the days of tourism and open farms, everything is allowed, animals can be shown. Before there was a question in the hall, what happens if an animal that is not on the list is shown in public at the exhibition. To this end, there is the Food and Veterinary Office, which will monitor all of this and also impose sanctions if necessary. It was agreed that an additional question would be sent to all stakeholders as to what they think of the draft. The Commission decided by consensus to propose to place a draft of 445 on the agenda for the plenary session by 31 May 2017 and to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed. Siret Kotka-Repinski, member of the Rural Commission, was appointed as rapporteur by consensus and it was proposed that the deadline for amendments to the draft be set by the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act on 10 working days, i.e. 14 June 2017 at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U221	Terje Trei will ask the waitress a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U222	Thank you. Good waitress! This draft law is quite general and, in fact, sets out the list to be established by a ministerial regulation. My question has to do with this. Now, if a list is drawn up in the ministry and there are no animals that could be there in general, how does the owner of the animal have to behave in order not to break the law? Does he have to turn to the ministry and make a request for his animal to be included on that list, or how does he have to function? Did you discuss that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U223	Yeah, we discussed that. You got it right. I'm gonna have to ask the Ministry to put this animal on the list. And if he's in there, that animal can show you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U224	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U225	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good manager! Black men, hairy women and Siamese twins were once shown at fairs. People gathered to see them, paid money, and they had fun. Using animals to entertain a person in a circus is an old custom that has now lived the same way as laughing at hairy women or children with raised heads. The animals have seemed funny to humans when they put on people's clothes, beat them up until they stand on two legs behind them, or jump through the rings with the scorching smell of fur. Today we have the understanding that the circus could demonstrate its skill, however, above all, by people: acrobats, clowns and firecrackers. Circus has become more aesthetic and ethical. We no longer want to see circus guest groups in Estonia, where animals are transported in painfully cranking around the scenes under tight conditions, so that the people can stand by and watch their dignity be humiliated in the arena. However, the risk of being freed from the circus, according to the draft to be put to work today, will only be wild animals caught out of freedom. The use of animals raised in people's homes, cats, dogs, rabbits, chickens, geese, ducks, turkeys, can continue if the possibility of their species-specific behaviour is guaranteed. So this is only one, but very important, step to stop animal exploitation. The animal list is confirmed by the minister, as we have already heard. I recall that the draft ban on animal circuses was also topical in 2015, when Minister Ivari Padar tried to initiate it in the Ministry. In Estonian society, the discussion about the dignity of animals is just gaining momentum. The draft closure of fur farms, as we know, failed initially in Parliament. For now! The question of the rights of animals and their exploitation by man is becoming more and more topical. Besides circuses and fur farms, animal protection is an area of interest in intensive animal husbandry, farm conditions, long-distance transport, and as painless as possible execution. The aim of animal protection is ultimately to minimise unnecessary and avoidable suffering. In addition to reducing the suffering of animals, the issue is also to reduce the psychological suffering of people exposed to animals, such as their trainers and growers. The safety of the audience is also important for circuses. Giorgio Agamben, a philosopher who discussed animal rights, claims that the key issue of attitudes towards animals is the search for differences between man and animals. Man mostly searches for traits that distinguish him from animals and that elevate him, which is very important. Can I have more time just in case?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U226	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U227	In any case, the difference between animals and humans is interpreted as a manifestation of spirituality, such as standing up and developing the thumb has been associated with the use of tools. In the case of animals, man always emphasizes the absence of something, whether it be speech ability, rational behaviour, culture, history, awareness of death, erotics, shame and guilt. When animals have been obtained to do something that is characteristic of man, for example, if they dance, move according to some order, follow orders, then the animal seems wise to man but also funny. The circus is applauded for this. When Carl Linné placed a man in the middle of primates in the 18th century, it was a scandal. We have now accepted that chimpanzees and gorillas are not very different from us and have even been found to have common ancestors in the form of lemurs. We're more like animals than ever thought. And so it is necessary to reduce the exploitation of animals and to the minimum of causing them suffering. Man's relationship with animals is constantly changing, all the more so as man accepts his resemblance to animals. In any case, the developed world is moving towards recognising the right of animals to the life and dignity inherent in the species. Prohibiting animal circuses is an important step along this path. Free the animals! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U228	Thank you. Do the representatives of the other political groups have a wish to negotiate? It's not there. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 445. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 14 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U229	Today's 12th item is the first reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement on the Unified Patent Court initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Agreement on the Establishment of a Regional Office of the Nordic and Baltic States. Mr. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U230	Honorable President! Cute people's representation! It's a story with a beard. This agreement on the European Unified Patent Court has already been signed by the Estonian State in February 2013, while the agreement on the establishment of a Unified Patent Court under this agreement in 2014 has been signed by the Regional Office of the Nordic and Baltic States. The Unified Patent Court Agreement is necessary to realise the initiative for cooperation in the area of unitary patent protection provided for in the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. The European patent with unitary effect, which will enter into force when this Treaty is ratified in the Estonian legal order, differs from the so-called classical European patent due to a different protected area. A classic European patent is a set of national patents which have the same legal effect as a national patent. The European patent area with unitary effect extends uniformly across the territories of all the Member States participating in enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection. This makes sense because it guarantees better, more effective patent protection in such an important area of entrepreneurship and creativity. The Unified Patent Court established by the Unified Patent Court Agreement will become part of the Estonian judicial system. Its purpose is to ensure the consistency and legal certainty of the case law relating to the European patent with unitary effect and the resulting cost-effectiveness for patent holders. It is important that all decisions of the Unified Patent Court are enforced in Estonia under the same conditions as judgments given in Estonia. As I said, the Unified Patent Court Agreement allows a group of Contracting Parties to set up regional services or local services in one Member State. In such a case, the parties do not have to go to the central office in Paris to discuss the cases, while its divisions are in London and Munich. As I have already noted, Estonia has an agreement with Sweden, Latvia and Lithuania on the establishment of a regional service. The sub-office of this regional service is located in Stockholm, Sweden, while cases can be dealt with in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Sweden. We have planned to use the Harju County Court premises for this purpose. If there is a question of how many cases or disputes relating to a European patent could arise a year, I note that this figure is expected to be one digit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U231	The Minister is ready to answer questions. There are no questions. Thank you very much. I invite a chair to represent Deniss Borodich, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U232	Good chairman of the sitting! Colleagues! The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this draft at its meeting on 15 May. There was also the Minister of Justice, who gave a comprehensive overview of the objectives and content of the draft. The main issue is the ratification of the Treaty, which will bring into force a common European dispute procedure. The Economic Commission took the following procedural decisions: First, I was appointed rapporteur for the draft; second, it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 31 May, i.e. today. In addition, the Committee on Economic Affairs decided to close the first reading of the draft consensus and to set the deadline for the amendments (also by consensus) at 17.00 a.m. on 5 June 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U233	Honourable waitress, thank you very much. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no request to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 441. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 5 June at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U234	Today's 13th item: First reading of Draft Act 440 on the Application of the Convention on the Issue of European Patents, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and on the Amendment of Other Acts. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice of the Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U235	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Parliament, This is now an implementing internal legal instrument directly related to the previous draft, whereby the legal procedure for a unitary European patent will be transposed into our legal order. It specifically provides for changes to the procedural laws on both the enforcement procedure and the law on civil justice. It is also necessary to amend the law on the application of the European Convention on Patents, as further development of the European patent in the framework of enhanced cooperation provides for the regulation of European patent issues with unitary effect. It is important to require that the Estonian legal order must have certain procedures in place; secondly, the legal status of the European patent in the Estonian legal order will be established. It is also important to define procedures for the enforcement of decisions of the Unified Patent Court. In itself, as I said, both this and the previous legislation will certainly have a positive impact on both Estonian entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in other countries in terms of legal certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U236	Honourable Minister, there are no questions for you. Thank you very much. Deniss Borodich, member of the Economic Commission, will also make a presentation on behalf of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U237	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was also discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs on 15 May and the report was presented by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. He spoke about the objectives and content of the draft. Some questions also arose at the Commission meeting. For example, how the time of proceedings changes and whether patent fees change. The answer was that patent fees would not change. What was previously applicable to the European patent will also apply to the European patent with unitary effect. Reinsalu confirmed that there are few international disputes and that proceedings will hopefully be shortened. It also asked to what extent the patent in force in Europe is compatible with the global patent. The Minister explained that the patent is essentially valid in the room in which it is requested. In the United States, for example, a patent must be applied for on-site separately. But, for example, patents are being applied for globally in the pharmaceutical industry, as the creator's legal protection is very expensive. It also asked why Spain, Croatia and Poland had not joined this agreement. This is not clear from the explanatory memorandum. The Secretary of the Ministry explained that Croatia had not yet joined the European Union when the Treaty was signed. Now he can sign the contract. Spain did, however, give up because the system is purely English, French and German. In protest, Spain gave up. Poland has already joined the system, but the agreement on the Unified Patent Court has not yet been signed. There were no further questions. The Commission also took procedural decisions: to appoint Deniss Borodich as rapporteur, to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 31 May, to close the first reading and to set the deadline for amendments at 5 June 2017 at 17.00. It should be noted that all these decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U238	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the groups want to start negotiations? There are no requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 440. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5 June at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U239	Today's 14th item: First reading of the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, for the presentation of the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U240	Hello! President-in-Office of the Council. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you a draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection prepared at the Ministry of the Environment. This draft proposes amendments to the law on atmospheric air protection and is due to the need to transpose the Fuel Quality Directive and its implementing act. In addition, the needs identified by law in practice will be corrected. The main objective of the draft is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector in order to improve overall ambient air quality. The draft provides fuel suppliers with an obligation under the Fuel Quality Directive to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions from fuels used in the road transport sector by 6% by 2020. In addition, a mandate rule will be established to collect and communicate to the European Commission information on fuels and energy used in road transport, including information on quantities, origin and place of purchase, greenhouse gas emissions intensity, etc. The draft has been harmonised by the Act amending the Liquid Fuel Act adopted on 21 April 2017 and therefore has the same effect as the Liquid Fuel Act. Suppliers will be able to fulfil the obligations laid down in the two laws at the same time. According to the Liquid Fuel Act, from 1 May 2018 suppliers may allow biofuels meeting sustainability criteria for consumption, while at the same time including such biofuels will also reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The obligation set out in the draft law amending the Atmospheric Air Protection Act will have to be met by suppliers on a monthly basis from 2020. At the same time, the Liquid Fuel Act requires suppliers to supply at least 6.4% of biofuels per litre, but the target is 10% energy content. With a view to harmonising European Union law, the term'service station' has been introduced into the draft, which gave rise to some discussion within the Commission. The Atmosphere Air Protection Act further distinguishes between the terms "tank station" and "service station." The difference is that the service station is a facility where only petrol is delivered to the fuel tanks of motor vehicles, while the filling station is also a facility where other fuels are issued with diesel, CNG and LPG. Specific requirements have been established for the release of petrol due to volatile organic compounds and it is necessary to ensure that these requirements are met. These terms are in use in the European Union directives and Estonia must transpose them, but they have no impact in practice, because there are no such facilities in Estonia where only petrol is issued. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U241	We thank you, too, Minister. There are no questions for you. The presentation shall be made on behalf of the Steering Committee by Terje Trei, member of the Environment Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U242	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Environment Minister's overview of the content of the draft was probably comprehensive enough and I will not repeat it. I will give an overview of the meeting of the Committee on the Environment on 15 May, where this draft law was a point in the debate. Heidi Koger, Head of the Department of Ambient Air of the Ministry of the Environment, and Heiko Heitur, Head Specialist of the same department, were invited to comment on this draft. At the beginning of the debate on the draft law amending the law on air protection in the atmosphere, the Commission was interested in why we have two drafts on the table in connection with the amendment of one law. The next draft coming to the debate in this Chamber today concerns the same law. Why can't they be incorporated into one bill? Heidi Koger explained that the two drafts were prepared independently of each other at different times, but now they ended up together in the Riigikogu. Heiko Heitur, Chief Specialist of the Department of Ambient Air at the Ministry of the Environment, explained the content of this draft. It transposes two EU directives relating to the obligation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The objectives have been well negotiated with the sector and the draft is in line with the liquid fuel law. However, questions have arisen in the Commission, and I will summarise them briefly. The chairman of the committee Rainer Vakra asked how large the reporting requirements imposed on suppliers would be. Heiko Heitur replied that the Tax and Customs Board would develop its own database, where the movement of fuels would become traceable in real time, and that the supplier would enter the required data into that database. Rainer Vakra was also interested in the 6% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from fuels. It was explained that suppliers could choose to include biofuels in fossil fuels, add alternative fuels to the portfolio or take into account emissions from the processing phase. Terje Trei asked for the deadlines set out in the draft explanatory memorandum to be clarified, bearing in mind that the transposition of the Directive is not too late. Heiko Heitur stated that the directive had to be transposed by 2010, but by then the European Commission was unable to calculate the average fuel consumption, of which the 6% reduction would be taken into account. Discussions went very long and basic data were only available in 2015. Valeri Korb asked what the life cycle of fuel means. The answer is that the fuel life cycle includes the extraction, processing, consumption and emission of raw materials. Terje Trei wondered why the term 'tank station' and'service station' were used in part of the draft paragraphs. What's the difference? Heiko Heitur explained that the word 'tank station' is replaced by'service station' in two paragraphs to ensure compliance with the Directives. The service station is a gas station where only motor gasoline is sold. Igor Kravtšenko asked to clarify whether one type of fuel or petrol was sold at the service station. The answer was that only petrol with an octane of 95 or 98 is sold at the service station. In conclusion, it was considered that, in the interests of clarity, these terms should be clarified and revised during the draft procedure. The Commission took the following procedural decisions: appoint a member of the Committee on the Environment, Terje Trei, appoint a draft as rapporteur, propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 31 May and close the first reading, and propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 2 June at 12 noon. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U243	Dear waitress, thank you very much. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 462. First reading is over. I will set the deadline of 2 June at 12 noon for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U244	Today's 15th item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection and the general part of the environmental code, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, for the presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U245	Hello again! People's Ambassador Terje Trei has already informed you that there are several draft laws on the protection of atmospheric air, and that the current one would look even more different, we have included a part of the amendment of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act. It is true that these drafts have lived a different life, the previous bill was linked to your activities in dealing with the Liquid Fuel Act. But sometimes things get together at some point in the same room, which is the grand hall of the Riigikogu. Mr President of the sitting and other good members of the Riigikogu. You have received a draft law amending the Environmental Air Protection Act and the General Part of the Environmental Code Act prepared at the Ministry of the Environment. The amendment of this law is primarily due to the need to implement and transpose European Union legislation at national level. To this end, the draft introduces major changes in four areas. Firstly, the Mid combustion Plants Directive, which requires the application of emission limit values for pollutants emitted from combustion plants with a rated thermal input of not more than 50 MW, is partly transposed. While the draft does not set emission limit values, this is done by the Minister of the Environment's regulation, the directive supplements the obligations of the holder of an air pollution permit or an environmental complexion permit. A total of around 1700 air pollution permits and some 250 environmental complex permits have been issued in Estonia. However, the additional obligations do not have a major impact, as they are general requirements which are already being implemented in many respects today. For example, I can mention requirements for the storage of data related to the permit, for the handling of combustion plants, etc. Another important amendment is the penal provisions on non-compliance with monitoring and reporting requirements on CO2 emissions from maritime transport. These requirements derive from European Union legislation and are directly applicable to shipowners. Namely, from 1 January 2018, the owners of all large ships will have to monitor and report on CO2 emissions during their voyages on an annual basis. The requirement concerns vessels with a gross tonnage greater than 5000 gigatons. The monitoring and reporting obligations shall apply to all ships entering and departing from European Union ports, regardless of the flag of the ship. The monitoring and reporting obligations under European Union legislation concern 14 ships flying the flag of Estonia. Thirdly, the regulation relating to the handling of fluorinated greenhouse gases, or F-gases, is specified in the Act on atmospheric air protection. F-gases are industrial chemicals used, for example, in cold and air-conditioning systems, heat pumps and fire-fighting equipment. For the owners of equipment containing F-gases, a legislative amendment will create the possibility of keeping the F-gas container collected from the equipment when it is registered in the F-gases and in the FOKA register of equipment containing ozone-depleting substances. This option did not exist so far, but in practice the substance withdrawn from the equipment is not always sent to the waste operator, but is stored with the owner in order to incorporate it later in his other equipment. The limit values for the permitted leakage of F-gases are also repealed, as equipment containing this substance must not leak at all in the future. However, if a leak is detected, it shall be immediately removed. The draft inserts a provision that, as from 1 January 2017, the public list of authorised holders of F-gases equipment has been transferred to the register of economic activities. Previously, this list was on the website of the Environmental Board. In addition, the F-gas Regulation of the European Union lays down liability provisions for the implementation of the requirements, i.e. misdemeanours, which were still lacking in Estonian law. Some of the liability provisions will be supplemented. As a fourth major change, the law on the protection of the atmosphere is complemented by a provision allowing the recovery of subsidies from greenhouse gas emissions trading revenues. More specifically, this supplement concerns the support for the purchase of electric cars or chargers that could be applied for under the green investment scheme during the period 2011 to 2015. This change was due to the fact that the grantor was unable to direct the recovery decisions to enforcement, as well as the need to provide for recovery decisions for electric cars in the form of enforcement documents. The amendment allows the recovery decision to be submitted to the bailiff for enforcement if the person to whom the aid is recovered does not properly repay it. The granting of the enforcement status of a recovery decision will make the procedure simpler, more transparent, more effective and cheaper for both the recoverer and beneficiaries. The General Part of the Environmental Code Act is amended by introducing a reference to the European Union legislation governing the limitation of emissions of pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants. This is a technical remark. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U246	We thank you for your report! There are no questions. The presentation by the commission is made by Andres Metsoja, member of the Environment Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U247	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed this draft on Monday, 15 May. All members of the Commission took part, and heidi Koger, Head of the Environment Department, Heidi Koger, Head of Climate and Radiation Department, Evelyn Müürsepp, and Reeli Jakobi, Head of Climate and Radiation Department, as well as KredEx lawyer Ingrid Ajangu, were invited. Indeed, the draft concerns four important aspects, which the Minister has already taken stock of. That is why I am no longer going to treat them separately. We immediately had a lively debate about why the amendment of the law on atmospheric air protection has to be dealt with as if twice as much as in drafts 462 and 464. Maybe it would have been possible to add them. The chairman of the committee asked for this. Heidi Koger replied that the draft dealt with in the previous item was intended to amend not only the law on atmospheric air protection but also the law on liquid fuel, so no addition would have been possible. Evelyn Müürsepp added that, at the time of the initiation, the context of the deadline for compliance with European Union requirements also precluded the addition of drafts. The question was whether to ignore four or just one requirement at a time. It is also appropriate to mention that the programme for development was not preceded by this draft, because it is an urgent draft. This year, by 1 July, this directive of the European Union was to be transposed. Other questions were asked concerning the so-called green support for electric cars. According to the proposed amendment, it is now possible to recover the aid if the applicant is in breach of the requirements and is also entitled to carry out the enforcement procedure. We can now remove this bottleneck thanks to the draft. In addition, there was an interest in the volume of reporting to shipowners that would be mandatory. It was explained that ship owners have been informed of the obligation, and currently 14 ships flying the flag of Estonia are concerned. They consider that the obligation requires additional staff, but the collection of new data can be aligned with the current monitoring and reporting obligations. Shipowners have been understanding and there are no points of dispute. According to ship owners, new data will be obtained by calculation methods and no new equipment will be acquired for monitoring purposes at first. The question also arose as to how many medium combustion plants there are in Estonia, because this draft concerns them. Heidi Koger noted that the draft concerns boiler houses with a rated thermal input of up to 50 MW and that there are nearly 800 of them in Estonia. It was decided to appoint Andres Metsoja as rapporteur for draft 464, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by today, 31 May, and to propose that the first reading be stopped. It is proposed to set the deadline for amendments at 12 noon on 2 June 2017. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U248	For the rapporteur, Krista Arul has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U249	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have just mentioned that there was no plan for development because it is urgent. But did the Commission, when discussing the draft law, take an interest in the impact of this law and whether it is necessary for other purposes if we reject the European Union's requirement? What does this mean for our legal and living environment? Is that really necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U250	We have discussed the subject of this draft law several times before, for example, when dealing with the Green Support Scheme, in order to find a solution to the problems that have arisen. As regards the additional issues that have arisen in the context of the European Union, we did not really address the very deep impact analysis. The replies given by the officials were, in the view of the Members of the Commission, exhaustive. These requirements need to be transposed and a common European agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U251	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 464. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 12 noon on 2 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U252	Today's last item is the first reading of the draft law amending the radiation law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Marko Pomerants, Minister for the Environment, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U253	Honourable Vice President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This time I will present the draft law amending the radiation law. It is already a tradition that the last draft agenda must be submitted by the Minister for the Environment. The draft has been drawn up in connection with the transposition of Council Directive 2014/87/Euratom into Estonian law. The Directive has complemented the Community framework for nuclear safety in nuclear installations and the obligation to introduce national nuclear safety legislation. There are no operational nuclear power plants on Estonia's territory, there are no study and research reactors and facilities related to the nuclear fuel cycle. This Directive does not automatically apply to the former Paldiski nuclear site. However, the principle of proportionality and local circumstances have been taken into account when transposing the directive. The changes to the draft affect in particular the Ministry of the Environment, the Environmental Board and the company A.L.A.R.A., which operates under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and manages the former nuclear object of Paldiski. According to the draft, the Ministry of the Environment will also consider ensuring nuclear safety as a separate issue in the preparation of the next 2018/2027 National Development Plan on radiation safety. As a new obligation, the Ministry of the Environment will have to carry out thematic peer reviews at least every six years and, if an emergency exposure situation has arisen in the former nuclear site of Paldiski, to carry out a national audit of radiation safety without delay. The topic of peer review is also chosen with the Paldiski object in mind. The first peer review will be carried out in 2017. The positive impact of cross-assessments is primarily reflected in the fact that the evaluation results in the country receiving feedback based on technological and scientific developments and on the work experience of others, which has been analysed in the event of incidents. In conclusion, this will contribute to ensuring nuclear safety in Estonia. Cooperation with other EU countries and with European Union committees is also increasing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U254	Thanks to the Minister! The presentation by the commission is made by Terje Trei, member of the Environment Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U255	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have come to the last item on the agenda today. I will try to be as brief as possible. I know a little less about all this Environment Minister and I'm not gonna go over his story again. In short, what happened in the Commission. We received an overview of the need to amend the radiation law from the Minister for the Environment. The draft law amending the radiation law was discussed at the committee meeting on 15 May. Evelyn Müürsepp, Head of Climate and Radiation Department from the Ministry of the Environment, presented the draft and answered the questions. We had just one question, and this was asked by Commissioner Valeri Korb, who asked if there was an action plan in case a nuclear accident would occur in a neighbouring country. Evelyn Müürsepp replied that the radiation safety development plan deals with emergency response and there is also a separate emergency response plan drawn up at the initiative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. As there were no further questions, the Commission quickly reached decisions by consensus. These were as follows: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu by 31 May 2017, to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped and that the deadline for amendments be set at 2 June at 12 noon. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-31_U256	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions. Are the groups interested in opening negotiations? I don't see that interest. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 463. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 12 noon on 2 June. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the end of today's sitting. Thank you for your discussions and decisions. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 5.34 p.m.
