ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-09_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, a little attention, please. We will have the session of the 7th working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now all colleagues who feel that they should hand over drafts or enquiries have this opportunity. Please! Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? I don't see that wish. As a result, we have reached an item called the attendance check. 74 members of the Riigikogu registered as present and we are currently missing 27 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-09_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, On today's agenda, we have one item on the agenda, namely the second reading of the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Court Procedure, the Law on State Fees and the Law on Legal Assistance 496 to improve the administrative procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. At second reading, I would like to ask Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Urve Tiidus is on the board, telling us about the bill. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-09_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good afternoon, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce to you the further procedure in the Committee on Legal Affairs following the first reading of draft law 496. It is recalled that the draft 496 was in this Chamber at first reading on 27 September. The preparation of the draft for second reading started already on 23 October. I would like to remind you in a few words that this bill will improve access to procedural assistance and reduce the burden on the courts of an important matter, namely the limitation of the right of appeal and the right of appeal. The proposed amendments are intended to extend the use of simplified procedures in administrative court proceedings. These changes make it easier for the Court to examine complaints at the level of appeal, i.e. when a request is made to review the decision of the Court of First Instance before a higher court. Okay. Linnar Liivamägi, the responsible official of the Committee on Legal Affairs, informed the Commission that no amendments to the draft were proposed by the deadline for the submission of amendments, 11 October. However, in order to improve the efficiency of administrative proceedings and to clarify the draft law, the association of judges submitted three proposals. The proposals made by the Association were also supported by the Ministry of Justice. The following clarifications were then discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Since we only have one item on the agenda, I will read out these more specific texts, I hope that this is not too much. The following is added to the original wording of Paragraph 1 (35) of the draft law: "If the time for the decision to be made public was not notified at the hearing or if the time for the decision to be made public was notified at the hearing, the absence of which was a valid reason for the party to the proceedings, and the notice of the date of notification of the decision has not been served in advance, the time limit for notifying the request to lodge an appeal shall begin to run from the date of service of the resolution of the decision. " Such clarification was made by the Society of Judges, who know this profession best. The inclusion of this part of the text in the revised rule will also help to reduce the number of requests to restore the deadline. The second text is added to Paragraph 1 (37) and this is the case: 'If the time for the decision to be made public was not notified at the hearing or if the time for the decision to be made public was notified at the hearing, the absence of which was a valid reason for the party to the proceedings, and the notice of the date of notification of the decision to be given has not been served in advance, the time limit for the notification of the request to lodge an appeal shall begin to run from the date of service of the additional decision. ' This amendment or addition has been made in view of the fact that the procedural time limits in administrative proceedings are very short, which slightly improves the situation. The third amendment concerns paragraph 3 (2). It is intended to read as follows: 'The application for legal aid in the form of representation in the administrative procedure shall be submitted to the administrative court of the place where the applicant is resident or established or where the legal service is to be provided. " Thank you so much for listening patiently! This amendment is necessary in order to increase legal clarity and to avoid possible conflicts of jurisdiction between courts. On all these three proposals, the Committee on Legal Affairs was unanimous and the unanimous decision was taken by Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Külmiki Kübarsepp, Liisa Oviir, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Paur and Urve Tiidus. Then there were procedural decisions: to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 8 November ( unanimously), to propose that the second reading be closed and, when the second reading is closed, to send the draft to third reading by 15 November and to propose a final vote on the draft (there was also a consensus: Karilaid, Kaskpeit, Volmer, Kübarsepp, Oviir, Aeg, Paur and Tiidus). But that was not the end of the second reading in the Commission. On 6 November, the draft 496 was discussed again in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Katariina Kärsten, adviser to the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, was then invited to the meeting. The chairman of the commission, Jaanus Karilaid, announced that on 3 November the attorney-at-law and partner, Allar Jõks, proposed three amendments to the draft. The applicant considers that these restrictions on the right of appeal are necessary to be proportionate and foreseeable and that the legal order is not burdened with rules which are not necessary. Commission advisor Linnar Liivamägi drew the Commission's attention to the fact that these are not the positions of the Estonian Bar Association. The Estonian Bar Association was, of course, involved in the draft process both in the drafting phase (it was already in April and May 2016) and in the coordination phase of the draft in January and February 2017, but then the Bar Association did not consider it necessary to contribute to the content of the draft. So the proposals are individual. The Commission dealt with three proposals and justifications of Allar Jõks and took decisions on all three. These changes are rather short, I recall them, maybe you haven't read them. Allar Jõks wishes to amend § 1 (44). It states that the district court may return the appeal if the appeal was examined in a simple procedure and, as a result of the circumstances, the appeal is unlikely to be upheld. The second suggestion by Allar Jõks is that if the breach of the law protected by the appeal is less intense and the appeal or appeal was examined in a simple procedure, the Supreme Court will only take a cassation appeal into proceedings if the Supreme Court's decision is of fundamental importance for the uniform application of the law or for the development of the law. The third proposal was to delete section 1 54 from the draft at all. I'm not going to read this point to you, so you can look it up yourself. None of these three proposals were supported by the drafter. In the course of the Commission's discussion, Külmiki's Hatter asked to explain how the situation would be with the rights of the complainant if the first instance was not dealt with in the second instance. Katariina Kärsten explained that the substantive decision was taken at first instance and that the judgment was generally satisfied by one party and the other was not. The purpose of the draft is not to launch the whole process of legal proceedings in cases which do not deserve it in appeal and cassation proceedings. The Hatter asked if the first step did not take into account the burden of the rest of the courts. According to Katariina Kärsten, each court level makes its decision independently. The point of appeal is that the Court of Second Instance re-examines the cases before it and assesses whether the first step has applied the law correctly and does not infringe the procedural rules. As a result, the Commission decided not to initiate the first and second proposal by Allar Jõks (there were 5 people in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Paur, Toomas Vitsut, Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, against Külmiki Kübarsepp, against Urve Tiidus). Also, the third proposal by Allar Jõks, which consists in excluding section 1 54 from the draft at all, was decided not to initiate the proposal and the Commission was in agreement on this matter (Karilaid, Kaskpeit, Aeg, Kübarsepp, Paur, Tiidus and Vitsut participated in this consensus). This reflects the entire Commission procedure. The third reading, when the second reading is completed today, is, as I said at the beginning, on 15 November. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-09_U4	Thanks to the waitress! Any questions for the Urve Wing? Colleagues don't have any questions. Good Riigikogu, we will examine the amendments. I'm sorry! Before examining the amendments, I wonder whether anyone would like to negotiate the draft at second reading. No, then we will still go to the examination of the amendments. So, the first amendment has been tabled by the commission, and the commission has taken full account of it. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, and the Committee on Legal Affairs itself has taken full account of it. The third amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Committee on Legal Affairs as the lead committee itself. Nobody wants to vote. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 496. We're done with second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for this tight working day. We have examined the points on today's agenda. Good luck taking part in the work of the committees. I'll see you in this hall next Monday. Have a nice day! Closure of the sitting at 10.11.
