ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! People's ambassadors are 45 at Question Time. The Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, and Tarmo Tamm, Minister of Rural Affairs will be in briefing. Hello, power! I will give an opportunity to ask a questioner as well as the entire Chamber for an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U2	The first questioner is Arthur Talvik. The question is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please, Arthur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U3	Hello, Prime Minister. The Coalition Treaty is here in Estonia's political culture like a stoned scripture. And there is a very clear point that campaign costs should be reduced and electoral campaigns should be made substantive, not monetary or volume-centred. However, looking at the local government's electoral campaigns, it cannot be said that they would have been very substantive from the end. Nor can it be argued that less money would have been put in it than in previous times or that the volume would have been smaller than in the past. What have you done to make electoral campaigns more content-oriented and less money-centred?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Good questioner, first of all, thank you for raising this question. I think this is a very correct theme setting and I agree in any case with a number of things that you have said. First of all, you said that campaigns should not be money- and volume-centred. Of course you shouldn't. As you have already mentioned, campaigns must be substantive. What have we done? I guess every party has to start from home. We must highlight substantive, programmed and conceptual points. And not only that, but I think it all starts with the way we listen to the voters. Everything starts with listening. In addition, it is necessary to clarify its proposals. You asked what you've done, but you didn't define exactly what you mean by 'you'. If you mean the Centre Party, we have made as many meetings as possible with the people. We have made as many idea collections as possible and we have met voters in this same campaign. You said the coalition agreement was stoned. I remember that when we signed this very good and working coalition agreement between the Socialists, the IRL and the Centre Party, we said that good ideas were never enough and every good idea deserves to be supported. If you go beyond your thought development, I, who have also been a opposition politician here in the Riigikogu, have written and spoken publicly on this subject. I think that there are also questions in this context as to what the financial limits are. In fact, I think we should consider this completely. In my opinion, the fact that the current restrictions have not met the objective at that time is a reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U5	Arthur Talvik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U6	Thank you for your answer. The Free Party has initiated a draft on removing the time limit for outdoor advertising and reducing the volume of outdoor advertising as well as setting up a campaign ceiling. These are exactly the points in the coalition agreement. When this coalition agreement was made, one of your claims was that you will also listen very much to the opposition and come along with the opposition proposals. Now I have this question: does the Coalition intend to support the proposals of the Free Party, precisely on the campaign, and in what way do they support them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U7	Thank you. I think that this answer will take us back to the middle of November 2016. It is no secret that at that time many groups of the Riigikogu, including your group, were met, and already then you raised this question. I don't know, maybe it had quite a lot of weight, and that's why this principle or position is included in the coalition agreement. What have we done? First of all, I say that the government has certainly not taken matters into account with the logic of some sort of opposition- coalition axis. When we gave our position or our opinion on 2 November 2017, we did not say that we did not support the same draft you initiated, but, on the contrary, we gave up our opinion on it. What I said was that the restrictions have not fulfilled their purpose is a fact. The fact is that all of this has increased the workload of the Police and Border Guard Board, especially during an active election campaign, and then they will have to argue about such questions as whether or not a poster on a display is allowed during an active election campaign. I think that such problems should be resolved. I certainly will not support it in principle if we come back to it, so that the walls of the house can have huge posters. I remember those 10 or 15 years ago in Mustamäe or downtown. I don't support giant posters. I think it is right to limit election costs. However, I also think it is important that the restrictions are as transparent and impartially controlled as possible, but there must also be specific sanctions. So, in my opinion, it would certainly be worth going forward with this discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U8	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! After the Central Party has sold its Toompea house and you are able to get rid of Savisaar's debts, is it hoped that you will support our long-standing proposal that the immorally high state budget funding of political parties should be reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U10	Thank you. You still want to trap me here by improving the Centre Party and giving it its contents. It's not bad. I think, in this way, that the funding of political parties, which you have really discussed several times, Mr Herkel, must not only appear legally, but must also be really transparent and clear. The issue raised In any case, as I said, he must be clear, he must be transparent. There can't be such dark and grey zones. You have already referred to the sale of the former Bureau of the Centre Party. We did this because we were in very many disputes, because of the party's previous time, and it is, of course, my duty to bear the responsibility. The Centre Party deals with its core objectives and positions, which are programmed and conceptual, not litigation in courts. What you asked about is the budgetary dispute, the budgetary position. Coming back to the restrictions on the election campaign for political parties, I really don't know if it's 90 days or 100 days or 110 days before the election campaign is started, or what the ceiling is. As far as I know, you have proposed that campaign expenses could be EUR 500000. As I said to your groupmate, I think it is certainly worth discussing. This is an idea from which the House could find a common part.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U11	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U12	Now I should give the floor to Raivo Põldaru, but I can't do that with my best wishes. That's why Jürgen Ligi's Prime Minister is asking Jüri Ratas. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U13	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have now been in an unusual situation for yourself for a year and are always trying to give you advice from experts. On one side, you have Eesti Pank, the Fiscal Council, the European Commission and the Chamber of Commerce who say that you are doing damage to the economy. You will spend more than you should be spared and reduce Estonia's competitiveness and do not count on it, as the National Audit Office last reiterated that European money will run out. Because of all this, the cost of overspending is particularly bad. On the other hand, you have experts who will help you to draw up points and ignore all these facts. As a human and prime minister, say not to say as a steamboat, which kind of expert do you prefer in your heart? Which ones are closer to your heart?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U14	Thank you for that question. The truth is that the current government has taken this line to listen to experts, to listen to specialists in their field. I think we need to learn not only from our own mistakes. It's very good if you can do it. However, if we can also learn from the mistakes of previous players, this must be done. We have already started, in the context of the coalition agreement, at the stage of its discussion, by asking for experts in each of the thematic areas, be it finance or economics. You mentioned a number of very respected institutions, such as the Fiscal Council. Of course, this Council must be heard, and so we have done. Just before the government decided to send the draft budget for next year to you, the Board of Budgets, for example, commented on the same forecast, to which you also suggest that the economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance will reliably describe the development of the Estonian economy in the coming years. I'm sure we listened to that. On the other hand, the government itself does not draw up economic forecasts that you know about your very long-term career and the serious period of the Minister of Finance, but simply takes note of them. I think it is also worth listening to the message that was issued some time ago by the international rating agency Fitch, who assessed Estonia's long-term sovereign rating. So the government will certainly listen to experts and take their assessments very seriously. You always want to contrast, but I certainly wouldn't consider it an opposite. We also want economic growth to reach as many Estonian families and households as possible and be inclusive.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U15	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U16	Thank you. I actually had a simple question: which one? It's essentially a question of whether or not. Put these points in one place and forget it. On the other side, put those experts who say that the government is out of control, spending at the wrong time, damaging economic potential, heating up the labour market, not taking into account the disappearance of euro money or the economic cycle. As regards forecasts, the European Commission has said that the difference in government estimates is unprecedented, six times as far as structural deficits are concerned. My question was simply this: which one of your hearts would you prefer, either those who provide you with facts and analyses, or those who help to replace the analyses and facts with words, presenting you with points of view? Which one?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U17	Thank you. Once again, I believe that Estonia does not have to oppose the experts who are in Brussels or the European Commission and those who are here in Estonia. I trust, as Prime Minister, but also as a citizen of Estonia, of course, those experts who have been making economic forecasts for years. These people work for the Ministry of Finance, and yes, I certainly trust them. If you produce, for example, the difference between the economic forecasts of the European Commission and the Ministry of Finance, then the difference has also been in previous years. I specifically looked up today and there was a difference in 2016. When, in mid-November 2016, the European Commission said that the result of 2017 would be just 0, 2, the Ministry of Finance said that it would be +0,2. So it's been a difference. The difference is mainly due to two things. Firstly, it depends on how large or small the GDP gap is calculated. Secondly, the economic cycle has been different on the basis of the calculation. Now I'm still coming back to the international rating agency Fitch. I also think it is important, Mr Ligi, that, since 2011, July 2011, our country's rating was A+ and stable. I think it is important that we can now say that, for the first time since 2011, the credible international agency, Fitch, has made our prospects positive. It has certainly been your work.• The work of the members of the Riigikogu and the work of different governments, that our finances are in very good order. Our public finances are reliable and sound.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U18	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U19	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! I hope that you will no longer believe the forecasts, but the concrete figures provided by the Tax Administration and the Minister for Finance, who say that our current excise policy has completely been overwhelmed. All those receipts that are planned for the budget don't come together. As I remember very well, you yourself, Tarmo Tamm sitting at your right hand, and your colleague Kadri Simson, when you were still in the opposition, understood very well what wrong tax policy is doing with our tax receipts, economic structure and competitiveness. But now that you're in the government, this is one of the famous heel turns that the Central Party has made with excise policy. I ask yesterday about what the Minister of Finance expressed, how clearly it can be seen that excise duties do not come together. Will you support a change in excise policy or will you continue to say that the budget that has been presented to us is credible in terms of its receipts?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U20	Thank you. I'll start at the back. The budget has certainly been drawn up with the best specialists in the country who make forecasts. It is a budget that has also been drawn up by the Government of the Republic at political level. I'm sorry, but I think this is serious. The question is whether we agree or do not agree with you on the priorities. The question is, for example, what do you think about the income of low and medium earners. Now I come to what your honorable fellow Mr. Ligi has said, because he also recommends listening to specialists. At the end of 2016, all specialists told us that the income of people on low and medium wages must increase. It is included in the 2018 budget, through a financial mechanism called an increase in the tax-free minimum. The tax-free share will rise from EUR 180 to EUR 500. Or let's take another example. These same specialists say in the medical field that our people's treatment queues are too long. Do you need to shorten them or do you need to shorten them? This too will be included in next year's budget. So I would take all these areas very seriously. Now, you mentioned alcohol duty and its receipt. The total budget shall be drawn up on the basis of forecasts. These forecasts that come to the government table are, of course, from our best specialists. Yeah, I trust them. Whether or not the projections will be fulfilled, we will usually only be able to assess in the next period, in the next year. The Minister of Finance really came up with an idea yesterday. It should be taken into account that excise policy has mainly aimed at reducing alcohol consumption. Alcohol consumption in Estonia has decreased year after year. I think that's a good direction. We can actually make such financial policy changes twice: in the process of drawing up the country's budget strategy and in the process of drawing up the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U22	Now is not the time for either.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U23	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U24	Next, Andres Ammas asks and answers Minister for Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm. Please, Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U25	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Let's talk about beekeepers and their support. When we met here at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs a few or three weeks ago, the last slide to introduce your presentation listed your ministry's problems from a budgetary point of view. There were references to things that should be in the budget, but they're not there. You said there was also a shortage of 0.8 million beekeepers' potential support. In essence, you asked the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs to support these thoughts. The Free Party will be happy to help you, and we have also proposed an amendment to this effect so that we can give support to beekeepers. The Ministry of Finance rejected it, so pay attention! For two reasons. First of all, as always, there's no money. But secondly, the Ministry of Rural Affairs is not ready to provide this support, but it has not developed the corresponding principles or systems, and that is why it has to be postponed for a year. I'm confused. Please help!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U26	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I'm confused myself. I don't know that the Ministry would have missed the money if it had been an opportunity. As a member of your Finance Committee and as a very long-term member of the Riigikogu, you know how the state budget is drawn up. In the spring, we negotiated with the Ministry of Finance and applied for a bee hive grant of EUR 800000 for beekeepers. Support has already been applied for in 2015 and 2016, but unfortunately it has not succeeded in the previous period. As you know, it is now relatively difficult to make changes to the state budget, because then there must also be a specific source of cover and it cannot be anything vague or vague. But the fact that you have raised this issue to the agenda and that so much is being said about bees and beekeepers today is a good thing. I think it is very good that this is being dealt with, because the role of bees in nature is very great. Unfortunately, there have been many cases of accidents involving bees and bee families lately. But this, of course, has nothing to do with the support we have asked for money for. I think our beekeepers should be equal in market competition compared to Latvia and Finland, where a grant of EUR 20 per bee bear is paid. We could do that too, because honey is marketed on an equal market. I think that we will come up with this again in the negotiations next year. As you have already said, the Ministry of Finance is willing to accept it. Next year, this amount will be in there, because it is actually necessary to be in equal market competition and for people to be able to cope. Beekeepers are good, and they've done it so far. We have applied for support, but unfortunately this year it has not been possible to obtain it. We managed to get other funds, lab equipment, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U27	Please, Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U28	Thank you. The concerns of beekeepers came to the public this year largely because of these bad cases, poisoning cases. As a result, beekeepers' concerns may have received more public attention than they had previously received. What's gotten better now? After all, the problem of glyphosate excites the whole of Europe. How can we avoid such stories in the future? There has been an idea, for example, of an insurance fund where farmers would make contributions and where beekeepers could be supported in such cases. Please explain what has been done in this matter and what else is planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U29	Thank you. Indeed, there were some unpleasant cases, but they did not happen because the legislator had nothing to do with it. We have been sitting with the beekeepers' representatives on several occasions, and I think that this summer we have met most of the beekeepers' representatives, and certain solutions are happening. We will certainly take these proposals into account. The obligation to notify, even if so, is the subject of a discussion, as soon as it is necessary to state the time within which the question of the farm book and the question of the farm book is to be notified. In fact, a farmer and a beekeeper sit on one side of the table because they're partners. A farmer wouldn't have anything to do if there were no bees and no beekeepers. In order not to leave the picture very one-sided, I would say that, even now, the country actually supports beekeepers through the Ministry of Rural Affairs. Not in a very large amount, but, for example, the 2007/2019 apiculture programme represents a total of EUR 496000 and, according to the rural development plan, 241 applicants have now received grants amounting to a total of EUR 3.8 million. So there are opportunities and beekeepers are not quite left unsupported, they are not to be looked at separately in any way. But certainly, as I said, we will come up next year with the idea of hive support. I hope that then we will be better able to defend our position, and the Ministry of Finance will also support us, because the amount we need in itself is not very large in terms of the state budget, i.e. EUR 0.8 million. We're trying to work on that now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U30	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I think supporting beekeepers is supporting one way of life in the country. As you rightly said, it also plays a major role in nature's tour and balance. However, it is quite regrettable that the coalition did not accept the sources of cover that we had to propose in our amendments. At the same time, I congratulate you on the full implementation of agricultural subsidies. Although here I also see a problem, especially that it is all inclined towards a large producer. What is your plan or ministry's plan to keep such small-scale production on land, be it beekeeping or agriculture, and not just thinning out on the outskirts of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U32	Thank you. I will come back to this apiculture programme and say that if this aid were to be granted, it would also legalise all the hives. It can now be said that 2,751 bees have been registered and that the number of bee colonies is about 27,000, but it is actually estimated that there are more than 50,000 bee families in total. The aid would also give that presumption, everyone would register their bee families. However, as far as rural areas are concerned more generally and generally, the rural development plan is for smaller operators to be able to operate in rural areas as well. The CAP also foresees much greater opportunities for supporting rural areas in the future, by 2020 and beyond. The emphasis is more on small and medium-sized enterprises. At present, however, there is a measure of diversification of enterprises and other measures, a measure of Leader. From there, quite a lot of money goes to the countryside to revive and support it. If I remember correctly, the amount of Leader alone in the previous period was EUR 73 million. There's a lot to do with it. The same programme also provided some support for beekeeping. So there are measures, there are opportunities and they are being implemented. But unfortunately, yes, the concentration is happening and still on the bigger side. It's one way to go. At the same time, the new CAP plan envisages a large number of measures that somehow counterbalance it, so that life on land is preserved and small and medium-sized enterprises can do so. Let me give you a very good example of being entrepreneurial. One young farmer received EUR 39000 start-up aid and increased its turnover to EUR 1 million in three years. By modern - day methods, he began to cultivate strawberries. So the odds are actually all there is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U33	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U34	Prime Minister Jüri Ratas is asking Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U35	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! We have come up with news of how the Estonian Human Rights Centre deals with incitement to knock on people, i.e. incitement to express against sexual minorities. And here are three serious problems. One of the moral problems, of course, is that we are moving clearly into a society, which is paranoid, persecuting and repressive in its example. Another problem is that this is a clear violation of Estonian law, a violation of constitutional rights, conscience and freedom of expression, as well as a breach of the Data Protection Act. Let the Data Protection Inspectorate deal with the legal side of this case. However, I would like to hear from you whether you approve or defamation the climate of a mansion of fear and persecution created by a small ideological group against the whole of society.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U36	Thank you. I understand that this issue you are raising is a dispute between the two NGOs. But if you take a bit more broadly, I think that our constitution is quite right to say that no one can be persecuted in Estonian society, regardless of what the sex is, which is the age, which is the mother tongue, which is the colour of the skin. Estonia is a democratic state, an open state, an open society. Such examples are certainly deplorable, even if someone thinks that I have heard such an action or an invitation to photograph one or another person on the streets of Estonia. I don't even know what they wanted to do with those pictures. In any case, it's very deplorable. I really don't know how to bring this dispute between two non-profits to you. You're a good specialist at this, I think. But persecution cannot have any place in Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U37	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U38	Thank you. I'm glad to hear you see a problem here, too. I would stress that this is not a dispute between the two NGOs. This is a very serious problem for all of us because, in essence, they are calling for complaints against people because of their sense of mind. When we say that Estonia is the rule of law, or if part of our political crust says that Estonia is a liberal state, then the activities of the Estonian Human Rights Centre are a clear expression of totalitarian mentality. This is a very dangerous trend in Estonia. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Estonian Human Rights Centre is an organisation with taxpayers' money and receives money from Estonian taxpayers and from taxpayers of the European Union. My question next is this: do you think that such an anti-conscious and anti-freedom organisation should be funded by taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U39	Thank you. I think it is quite appropriate to quote our constitution here, precisely the part that talks about our fundamental rights and freedoms, and which states very specifically in Article 12: 'Everything is equal before the law. No one shall be discriminated against on grounds of nationality, race, colour, gender, language, origin, religion, political or other beliefs, property and social status or other circumstances. ' If you want to have allies here, that Estonia must be an even more tolerant society, an even more tolerant society, an even more cohesive society and the rule of law, as you mentioned, we are, in any case, on the same side here with you. Together, we stand for Estonia to be a more tolerant, tolerant society and for our coherence between members of society to be as strong as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U40	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U41	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! It is clear that an organisation financed by the State is, in a sense, an extension of the state's arm, and therefore it would probably be possible, and even mandatory, to intervene in such appeals and call it into order. My question, however, is that we are very much loved to talk about liberal democracy and to emphasise that we come from a society that had such and similar customs. As I recall, the Soviet Union was free to speak of Negroanekdotes, Jewish anecdotes and Estonian, German and Russian anecdotes, even Brezhnev anecdotes. There was no punishment for that. Right now, however, the nose is puffed on the use of the word 'nigger' alone. Talking about the Jew is just like Judophobia. Don't you think we should finally go back to democracy and give up restricting democracy to all kinds of epithets, including the word 'liberal'?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U42	Thank you. We must definitely not divert Estonia from the path of democracy. In that sense, you're right. We must move forward, we must certainly build this important value and preserve our freedom. Now, you mentioned the principle of arm extension. I do, however, think that Estonia is, as you said, such a democratic society that I cannot imagine that, in the case of all state agencies or public institutions, we will take the cultural sector, for example, the state would say what kind of repertoire one or the other country-supported group or theatre should present. I don't think that makes any sense. And I'm glad if you think so, too, I hope you think so, even though you said that the state should direct this extension of the hand. I don't think that's right. I think that the leaders of organisations are always responsible, they are then boards of directors or councils. But the approach of setting up programmes or statements from cultural institutions from Stenbock's house is not, I do not think it is right.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U43	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U44	Now Prime Minister Jüri will ask Ratas a question, Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U45	Prime Minister! Today we have a second reading of the state budget. The state budget is in deficit, both nominally and structurally. You have planned tax increases, new taxes to balance the budget. Some of the new taxes have already been withdrawn. It is clear that excise duties have crossed the border. The Minister of Finance made statements here yesterday, which you call a common sense. Such an idea, of course, has huge economic consequences for the economic environment. The Minister of Finance has promised to cancel any further tax increases you have planned for 1 February. Let me ask you this: do I understand correctly that the government is not putting forward a bill to cancel the tax increases of 1 January? The thing is, there's very little time left.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U46	Thank you, good questioner. I apologise if I repeat myself in some of the answers, because I answered the questions of the honourable member of the Riigikogu, Jürgen Ligi, about the same area. I'm sure you listened to it on TV in your office, you weren't in the room. By using Estonian film classics at the beginning of this answer, I say this way that I recognise the former Minister of Finance immediately. That good signal, the broad picture you brought out of the lines with your question, it's good to feel. What can I say? I don't know, you lost it. First of all, the increase in the alcohol duty rate does not come from 1 January, this date is February 1. But it's such a small observation for the sake of the verbatim. If you ask whether the government intends to submit any draft legislation or any change in its budget, then no, it does not. We have discussed the state budget in the government, which, as far as I know, the Riigikogu is already discussing today at second reading, as you said. This is a very good budget. This is certainly an inclusive budget, which takes into account that the Estonian economy needs to be relaunched, and the economy needs to be boosted. It is a budget that will certainly notice our people so that as much as possible of this economic growth can reach them. The government makes budgetary and fiscal changes, as I said to the previous questioner, in principle twice: when we are discussing the country's budgetary strategy and when we are discussing the state budget. The word of the Minister of Finance has, of course, a great weight in society, but these words must be well considered and the overall picture must be seen. If you make a change in one place, as you know, Mr Sõerd, it is a certain input to another place, to a certain source of costs, to a source of cover. So I'm going to answer your question 'no'. I think you can support this budget completely calmly at second reading and direct it to third reading. This is my humble proposal to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U47	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U48	Thank you. I certainly meant the increase in excise duty on 1 February, not the changes on 1 January. But I wanted to ask you the following question. When the government approved the budget plan at its last cabinet session, you gave such a victorious announcement that you managed to reduce the structural deficit from 0.4% to 0.25%. In nominal terms, it amounts to EUR 35 million. What measures did you achieve this? You haven't said anything about that. There is so much to know that one measure is that a 10-million-dollar cut came at the expense of defence costs, you have skilfully postponed the cost of protection for one year. What about the rest of them? What are the remaining measures with which you reduced this structural balance?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U49	Thank you. That's a very good question. I like to debate with you. You're in good shape, and for that I certainly commend you. First of all, yes, it is right that our wish is, and indeed was, in the transfer of this budget, such that the minus that is permitted by law would not, of course, be so great. It was also our desire to make a country's budget strategy that we could move the deficit to a level of zero. And we succeeded, really, this is next year at 0-25 percentage points. You're asking what the measures are. Fiscal policy measures. What you have mentioned, the aspect of defence investment, has been one of the priorities of this government and will continue to be a priority. I understand that there is currently such a political attack on a good coalition partner, IRL, but here it is my duty to defend the government and protect the coalition partner. The IRL has never proposed any reduction of even one cent of the defence investment budget. On the contrary! We, the coalition, wanted EUR 60 million more investment in defence. Three years: 2018, 2019 and 2020. And it's still 60 million. You understand very well, I dare say, as a very strong specialist in fiscal policy and as an expert in a good way, that it is linked to the fact that there is an accrual-based budget for 2017 and beyond. The question is, when will these procurements be carried out? And that's where you're supposed to listen, of course, to specialists. It's not like that, I don't know, buying a bagel or a jar of jam from the store, it's a big deal about ammunition.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U50	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! The drawing up of this budget is, in my opinion, full of cynicism, and one example of it relates to the unequal treatment of beneficiaries of disability benefit and disability pensioners. This fully indicates that all taxes should be collected at all costs. Do you think that's normal? My second question concerns excise policy and how poor Minister Tarmo Tamm must promote rural areas when small shops are shut down, the trade structure is changed and, in fact, small businesses are hit the most in the country. Is such a budget really going to have to be made in times of economic growth? Do you want to go down in history with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U52	No budget must be made in such a way that the areas of pain that have been in agriculture and rural Estonia must be resolved. This government certainly does not want to go on on the axis of history, let us say, looking back in the future, by simply telling Estonian farmers that you are good. You see, Brussels promises to pay you top-up benefits, but we don't pay you those. One year, two years, three years. You can't do that! You know well that not only next year, although there will be next year, but this year these top-up grants will be included in the budget. And not 20, 30, or 50%, but 100%! This year, it's a sum of $19.9 million, I don't think I'm wrong. So we certainly want to change this principle, I would dare to say that the very negative principle or the signal that the country has given to its farmers. I am pleased that the Free Party also raised the very important issue of this very question of pollinators, the question of bees. During this discussion, I heard that Mr Herkel, for these very top-up grants, acknowledged the Minister for Rural Affairs, Tarmo Tamme. So, yes, this budget certainly wants to change certain fundamental signals, which have been given to society for many years, so that we do not have to support our rural areas or farmers. Well, it's not a wish, it's a change, in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U53	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U54	Asks Krista Aru and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You've only recently visited Patarei Prison, you've seen the state of construction. Surely you will now, a few days later, appreciate the technical state and existence of this great cultural and cultural object at all. After settling these impressions, what are the first possible scenarios for action that you could bring before the government and then why not the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U56	Thank you, good questioner! If I may, I would use the word'sea fortress'. But we're talking about the same object. Yes, you are right, it is a very large historical, cultural history and, I dare say, even an object of architecture and a property. I do not think that what is his geographical position or location is of little importance either. If we have one ensemble, if we want to call it an ensemble, where there is a Seaplane Harbour and Sea Fortress, from there on to the Cultural Cover and City Hall, and the same ideology or idea of opening up to the sea, then it is important. I did also go to check and see the sea fortress with Mr. Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration. If I had a good solution to take out of this sleeve a few days later, I would. But there is no good solution right now. When we were there together, I also talked to the people and specialists of Riigi Kinnisvara AS about the fact that if we compare with it our new major ministry, which is said to be a super ministry, it must be taken into account that basically the number of building square meters of these two objects is more or less the same. It's a little smaller fortress than building its inner courtyards closed. It really is a complex of huge square meters. What are the odds? The cabinet really needs to discuss this at its meeting. The investment is circa 100 million euros to fix it. Is it the public sector or is it the private sector? If this is done by the private sector, it will either be built or sold. If we say in society that we do not really have the best idea for this, which will be assessed in 50 to 60 years' time, it must be preserved. Conservation will cost the Estonian state, our taxpayer, an amount of 3 to 5 million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U57	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I'll go on from here. During the conceptual preservation or reconstruction of these cultural objects, it became clear that Riigi Kinnisvara AS, which has actually been created in order for the state's real estate to be maintained and developed as well as possible, does not have a sound management plan for heritage protected objects to date. How do you see whether it should be Riigi Kinnisvara AS, all over Estonia, who will also set a good example for these heritage-protected objects, how to use them and what to do with them, taking into account the necessary economics?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U59	Thank you. The balance of the budget in the whole sector must be taken into account by Riigi Kinnisvara AS, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that the volume that it can invest during the year is, let's say, 70 million euros. Bringing this 100 million somehow forward before health institutions, before hospitals, which also need to be repaired, built and expanded in Estonia, is quite difficult. The fact that we have been with these objects under heritage protection in a good way, do not always read out of here something quite difficult. I'll give you the same example that I said I didn't have a good solution to pull out of this sleeve. The city hall was found a solution, I dare say, for about 18 years. In fact, the solution is, after all, that the public sector, I mean the country and the city, have agreed and can make an international conference centre there. Different solutions were also sought. Even with a single kroon, I am not mistaken, with a single kroon, it went on sale at the end of the 1990s, in the early 2000s. The competition also included plots of land next to it, hoping that an investor would come. So far, the result is zero. I think it is important that maritime security (a) is not destroyed and (b) that the maximum percentage of this building or complex of buildings remains in the public sector's use. These pictures are really beautiful, with open offices for creative industries, markets, cafes, shops, seating places, walking places. I guess it's gonna be mixed-use anyway. I mean, there's probably some kind of living space there at some point. But I think it is important that it is not destroyed and that it has as much public use as possible. In fact, a decision is needed whether to invest or preserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U60	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U61	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Thank you for taking the trouble to visit this item, which has been repeatedly asked by the Free Party Group here during its inquiries and Question Time. You and Jaak Aab's responses sounded like you have ruled out the possibility of companies and the state, for example, developing this complex in cooperation. Why isn't this discussed? You have completed your previous answer very well with the recognition that a decision is needed. When will this decision come?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U62	I dare say that this government, in any case, should be commended here for our coalition partners. be brave to take difficult decisions. And there's gonna be a decision about it. When's this coming? As I said, the first opportunity for this debate will hopefully be in the government office at the end of this year. Krista Aru said that this could include the Riigikogu, the Committee on Culture or others. I think it is not a bad idea that the minister in this area should present it. In my opinion, one thing has been left unfinished in the case of maritime security, and there has been no international competition for ideas. I am not talking right now about architecture, which is important, but about the idea of what this content might be. Perhaps we can learn the best examples from the wide world and listen, as Mr Ligi said, to good experts not only from Estonia but also from outside it. I think that whatever the future is, it would in any case be the right step to take to find a solution for an international idea collection or competition. Anyway. I do not know where you took the fact that we in any way exclude public-private cooperation in order to make this right. I don't rule it out. Sincerely, it doesn't rule out. But since there is another property next to it, the question is rather what is the volume of the plan and the volume of the construction. In this case, if a private investor is also found and involved in maritime security, then the property next to the game, which is currently empty, will certainly come into play. Because the private sector needs direct economic interest or, let's say, profit-making potential, efficiency.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U63	I will conclude on this issue. I still can't give the floor to Raivo Põldaru. Ladies and gentlemen, we have six minutes and a few seconds left. Anyone who wishes to ask the ministers will be able to do so within one minute and the minister will be able to respond within two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U64	Urmas Kruuse. Who's the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U65	The question is for the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, your cynicism continued in response. Indeed, I have never stated that farmers do not have to be supported, but the current government allocation is almost half the size of what the previous government allocated, or 30 million, in an extraordinary way in a year and a half. Get this volume up first, then come and tell me that the farmer's face just now turned to him. But I guess you didn't specifically answer my question about the beneficiaries of disability benefit and the disability pension. Why have they been taxed differently, and why do some have to pay more tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U66	Thank you. I'll start with the first thing. Recognition, of course, to the entire Riigikogu, the Chairman of the Riigikogu, for the operational handling of these seven questions. Secondly, no, I am not saying that it is only now that attention is paid to farmers. Surely this was done diligently and well during your reign. I say that one area that was exposed to it is, after all, the fact that it was exposed to it must now be covered. Now, if you ask such a question, the Minister for Health and Labour will also be present in this Question Time today, and I suggest you ask him. I know that the subject you asked about was also a matter of decision in your time. So, yes, I think that this question could go to the Minister for Industry, if I may suggest it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U67	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, who's the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U68	The question is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U69	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U70	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! The tax losses from next year are so massive that trainings and study days are being organised across the country for teachers, officials and small businesses, in order to give any understanding of how and how much tax will have to be paid next year. The last major confusion concerns the implementation of the EUR 500 tax-free rate. In particular, some trainings have argued, for example, to teachers that each of them must make a separate application to implement this tax-free rate. Some training courses have recommended not to make this statement for EUR 500 in order to avoid such a higher reimbursement requirement at the end of the year, etc. These are just a few examples. You only have two minutes to answer. I would ask you, as Prime Minister, to explain simply and clearly how this system will be implemented next year. Does everyone need to make a statement? Can this statement be made, for example, in the case of teachers, at EUR 500? What's it gonna look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U71	Thank you for your question. Of course I'm gonna answer plainly and clearly. Your question, of course, requires a slightly longer answer. First of all, the intimidation that you're doing here, that there's a tax loss, or how you said it, must be rejected. Teachers' raise is a priority next year. The rise in the minimum wage of teachers is a very clear priority. If you call it a tax loss, then, I don't know, you have to say it in front of the teachers. In any case, I agree with you to debate this matter in front of the teachers. The second question, as well as those who work in kindergartens, related to teachers. The wage support component for kindergarten teachers is also included in the state budget for next year. If you call it a tax loss, you have to debate it with you in front of them. I wouldn't call it a tax loss. I think it's overrated. Now, 500 euros of income tax-free minimum, which you asked about. I think that the most important starting point here is that, in this sense, you are right, that this is perhaps even the biggest tax policy change of the 21st century. The tax-free minimum increases from EUR 180 to EUR 500. The truth is that we also took an example in our government office in an area where we actually want clarity and rather a zero bureaucracy option. What does that mean? That people themselves should not do something pro-actively because of the increase in the tax-free minimum, but the state will do so. At the moment, I know that certain changes are still planned. The Commission has discussed this in the Riigikogu. I must also acknowledge officials at the Tax and Customs Board as well as...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U72	Andres Herkel, please! Who's the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The question is for the Prime Minister. You referred to the question raised before the Minister of Finance on the elimination of failed excise increases in the coming year as a skateboard. I think it sounded a little derogatory, to put it mildly. However, your excise policy has negative consequences for receipts, border trade, country shops, etc. My question is this: why did you not go to correct the 2015 error of the Reform Party and why did you not restore the tripartite agreement made by the government of Andrus Ansip between producers, healthists and politicians in order to ensure a calm excise duty on this issue? You poured oil into the fire.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U74	Thank you. I've seen this kind of common ground with the Free Party nine times in ten. Today, one could say, it has been a hundred percent for this same election campaign and for maritime security. But now I see a special feature with you. The special feature is that the increase in alcohol duty has not been our primary desire, as you said, to fill the purse of the budget receipts. The primary desire has been to reduce the alcohol consumption of Estonian people. You said the increase in alcohol duty is negative. Really, it depends on where to look. When we look at the health of alcohol users, the facts speak their own language. Fortunately, alcohol consumption has decreased year after year, although not only under the influence of excise policy or financial policy, but certainly also under the influence of information policy. But this has been the most important starting point for this government, let's say, the increase in alcohol duty. No, I wouldn't say the Secretary of Finance has failed somehow. I'm sure it isn't. The Minister of Finance has great weight and if he puts a topic on the table, it must be discussed and the whole picture seen. In this context, however, the overall picture can be seen either in the drafting of the state budget strategy or in the drafting of the state budget. But by now, both moments have passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U75	Honourable Riigikogu, Question Time is over. Thank you, members of the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U77	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U78	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the 8th working week of the VI plenary session on Wednesday. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Uno Kaskpeit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U79	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the EKRE Group, I will address the inquiry to the Minister for the Interior. It's about the uniforms of the border guards. The situation is sad. At the border crossing points, the border guards are stuffed in a blue uniform. But the very sad situation is on the green border. The procurements prepared and announced by the Police and Border Guard Board are a series of failures due to ignorance. I've never seen a better company on the border before. The border crossingr sees the border guards wearing worn-out, worn-out and richly-chosen uniforms because on the green border older servants have distributed their worn-out uniforms to younger ones. Everything that's been produced in the meantime through some small procurement is in different shades. So there's a bunch of people on the green border. Consequently, we have the following questions. What is the reason why such problems have arisen in ordering uniforms? Secondly, how do you plan to solve the issue of uniform equipment for border guards? Thirdly, how does such a picture match the centenary anniversary of our country? And fourthly, who is personally responsible for the situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U80	No more wishes. I have adopted one inquiry, we will forward it in accordance with the rules of procedure and procedure provided for in the law. Incoming check, please! There are 88 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U81	Let's get to the agenda. First of all, to improve the administrative procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic, the third reading of the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Court Procedure, the State Fees Act and the State Legal Aid Act 496. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Dear Riigikogu, since draft 496 requires a majority of the Riigikogu membership for adoption, please, presence check! There are 87 members of the Riigikogu. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Court Procedure, the Law on State Fees and the Law on Legal Aid 496 to improve the administrative procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There were 81 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 496 and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The Act amending the Code of Administrative Court Procedure, the Law on State Fees and the Law on Legal Aid has been adopted in order to improve the efficiency of administrative proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U82	Following the third reading of the draft law amending the law on paying agencies and e-money institutions initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws related thereto, 498. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiations at third reading. The Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Dear Riigikogu, can we go to the final vote? Thank you! I am voting on the draft law amending the law on paying agencies and e-money institutions initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in this regard 498. Please take a stand and vote. There were 84 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 498 as a law, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The law amending the law on paying agencies and e-money institutions and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U83	The third item on our agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 489. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Mrs Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we press a button on this bill and probably adopt this bill, I would like to make three points on behalf of the Reform Party Group. With this bill, we place a very important new task on the local authorities. Indeed, local authorities will play a key role in regulating substitution care and supporting children. In addition to this task, local authorities also receive quite a lot of money to support children. I very much hope that all local authorities will be aware today that such a task will be assigned to them by this bill, and that concrete preparations will also be made to be up to these tasks. After all, local governments have a real opportunity to direct the fate of people, including small people, which is particularly important. Secondly, the current draft states that people with secondary education can work as family parents and educators in substitute homes. This issue gave rise to very heated discussions in the Commission. The substitute home workers' association proposed that minor or more traumatized children who reach substitution care should deal with as professional workers as possible. It was suggested that they should also be highly educated. At the moment, it seems that we are not prepared for this change, but I hope this is our future. When we come back to this issue in this Chamber, we are also prepared to establish higher educational conditions for those who deal with children. Thirdly, the major objective of this bill is for fewer and fewer children to grow in orphanages, i.e. in replacement homes, and for us to become more and more ready as a society to take the children in need of replacement care into our families. This would be the right and safest option for children, but the forecasts also say that this trend is not developing rapidly. But it's up to all of us. So I invite everyone in this Chamber to think about whether we can bring in children in need of replacement care. Thank you. The Reform Party will definitely support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U85	There is no further wish for negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with this, the draft law amending other laws 489. Please take a stand and vote. There were 81 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 489 and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Social Welfare Act and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U86	But now on the next item, the Second Reading of the State Budget Act of 2018 initiated by the Government of the Republic 521. Commission rapporteur Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U87	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Between the first and second readings, we have discussed the state budget for the following year at four meetings: 23 and 24 October, 7 and 13 November. A total of six ministers from the Government of the Republic took part in these meetings. The slides they transmit are available. These debates, which took place with each minister, are recorded and easily accessible. And during the first reading, the Riigikogu hall showed little interest, specifically no interest in the discussions we had with ministers at the committee. So I will leave this issue at the end of the day, if there is time, I will give you an overview of it, and I will now go to the amendments. In total, 50 amendments were received from the political groups and members of the Riigikogu and 20 additional amendments were added. It's an absolutely ordinary thing. This period, which begins after the Government of the Republic gives up the budget and ends at second reading, remains the time when ministries actively specify the invoice, the addressees, etc. And as a result of this great work, the Committee on Monetary Affairs had 20 amendments. These include such absolutely technical proposals: for example, because of a fingernail somewhere in a row with a wrong code or a different sum, some errors have been detected in the aggregated series, which certainly need to be corrected. So these technical and more specific changes. These are linked in particular to the fact that the county governments will cease their work, and to the fact that the administration of the joint building requires some services to be merged. And there are also some more fundamental things, such as determining which parish is paying. For example, the municipality of Viimsi will now pay the small island support to Kräsul Island. Certain parts of the language programme of the Ministry of Education and Research go under the Ministry of Culture. Among other things, there is a desire to increase the financing of the National Defence Programme by EUR 115000 and to fix the maximum amount of the new 24/7 special care service to be charged from the state budget. But, in principle, all 20 amendments are precise and technical. The Commission voted and fully supported them, with 7 votes in favour, 1 against and 4 abstentions. We now go to the amendments received from the political groups and members of the Riigikogu. The Group of the Free Party made the most of the amendments. A large proportion of these, 15 amendments, have been formulated in the same way: they offer to reduce labour and management costs in ministries and other public institutions. These include the Riigikogu, the Office of the President, the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, the Supreme Court, the State Chancellery, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Rural Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Another ministry is on this list, it is the Ministry of Social Affairs, but the direction of the proposal is another: it wants to reduce the volume of the labour market programme by one million euros. I summarised these proposals because they all have one objective: to restore the balance of the state budget. The Ministry of Finance commented on this as follows: Everything that is currently included in our draft state budget is fully in line with the state budget law. We will strike a balance in the next few years, and this situation is allowed by law. Speaking of de facto reduction, it was commented that the wage growth of employees in state institutions has been much lower in recent years than the average wage growth over Estonia. If you make these proposed changes, this difference, this gap is starting to increase. All these amendments received 5 votes in favour and 7 against. There were no abstentions. The proposals were therefore not supported. The Free Party tabled 10 other amendments, which I am now talking about. Amendment 17 concerns the Ministry of Education and Research and consists of adding EUR 4 million to doctoral student grants at the expense of the rental housing programme. That's what the government representative said. The source isn't right. I'm gonna have to do a detour here. Indeed, the volume of the rental housing programme has been interpreted differently. 37 million, 33 million once, 20 million once. In fact, this volume is planned to be EUR 12.5 million for next year. And it's actually realizing. So the amendment that did not receive support was 5 in favour, 6 against. It should also be noted that doctoral student support will increase to EUR 660 next year, i.e. more than 50%. Amendment 18 was the same for the ministry sector: there is an offer to increase basic funding and research support for research institutions. Nor did it find any support, as this amount is already increasing from 135 million to 151 million, or almost 12%, and is foreseen in accordance with the negotiations that have been held, i.e. as agreed. The result of the vote was the same here: the proposal was not supported. Amendment 24 is that more money will be allocated to the Ministry of the Environment for the land buy-out programme with conservation restrictions. The representative of the Ministry of Finance told us for quite some time that this programme would take into account that EUR 13.4 million would go there in the next three years. It must cover all needs and even lose the queues. The vote was in favour of 5, 7 against, so the proposal was not supported. Next, the 31st proposal: to allocate EUR 600000 to the Ministry of Rural Affairs to support beekeepers with the aim of reducing the national allocation to political parties. The government representative gladly announced that 25 countries in the European Union, including Estonia, would support their political parties. If you don't support your own parties, someone else will. Only Cyprus, Malta and Latvia do not support political parties. Moreover, the support paid to political parties, amounting to EUR 5.4 million, has not increased over the last seven years. And when we look at the change that has been made in the volume of the budget and how GDP has changed, we see that this support has practically decreased. In voting on it, Amendment 4 was supported by 4 people and 7 was opposed. The proposal was therefore not supported. The next is the 34th proposal: to reduce by 14.7 million the money from the rental housing programme. That's what I'm talking about. Five people voted in favour, seven against. The proposal was not supported. Proposal No 35 concerned Rail Baltic: to reduce investment by 5.63 million. Its comment was also quite a comprehensive explanation: it is our contractual relationship. This is the basis for receiving extra-budgetary funds for the realisation of this project and the Government of the Republic disagrees with the proposal. During the vote, Amendment 2 was supported by 2 people, 6 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 36 proposes that the Free Party Group withdraw from the budget all funds intended for free intra-regional transport. That's 13.6 million. The answer was that the coalition wants to reduce the transport costs of Estonian households. They are much bigger than in our neighbouring countries. This is considered a good measure to give people the opportunity to look and find employment. This proposal was not supported: 5 people were in favour, 7 against. It was also proposed that MKM would reduce EAS resources, i.e. administrative costs by one million euros. This proposal was also accompanied by a rather emotional text. The answer was one where an overview was given of what these administrative expenditures are actually going to be. The proposal was not supported: there were 3 people in favour, 7 against, no abstentions. Amendment 38: delete about 50% of IT developments next year. The amount concerned is around 3.5 million. And these developments could be excluded because some laws that lead to some changes in taxes or excise duties will not enter into force. We received an answer later by e-mail, but something also sounded in the Commission, of course. All 19 programmes that require IT development next year are in place in the Commission, and we do not think that money should be withdrawn from this article. That's five to seven. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 40: reduce road repair money to EUR 10.14 million. In fact, the formulation was such as not to reduce this amount, but to eliminate growth. This is exactly the amount by which road repairs will increase next year: EUR 10.14 million. The answer was that this amount, which currently exists in the state budget, is taken into account how much money has already been earmarked for co-financing in order to receive additional funds from European Union funds. If we take away much that can happen, the repairs to gravel roads and other such objects will be drastically reduced, and this is unacceptable. The vote had 5 votes in favour, 7 against and 0 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Such a change would jeopardise the implementation of the transport development plan approved by the Riigikogu for the years 2014 to 2020. This is not acceptable to the coalition. The last amendment by the Free Party Group, bearing the number 50, received the support of only one member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which means that it is not to be voted on. This is to take away the support of political parties from the administration of the Ministry of the Interior and to give this money to the Foundation of Civil Society. There was one vote for, seven against, two abstentions. Note: The Civil Society Foundation will receive 1.6 million euros from the state budget next year, which is more than just a little more than this year, but still is. These were the amendments proposed by the Free Party. The Reform Party tabled four amendments aimed at bringing the budget into a structural balance. All four proposals Nos 10, 11, 33 and 39 did not find any support. They were supported by 5 members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, 7 against and 0 abstentions. In short, it was proposed to reduce the reserve of the Government of the Republic, to reduce the labour and management costs of ministries, to reduce the volume of investment for the construction of rental homes and to withdraw funds from the budget for the introduction of free transport in counties. EKRE made 14 amendments, 11 of which received the support of only one member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Can I ask for more time? You can't?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U88	Let's give it some more time. I think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U89	Thank you. A total of 11 proposals are those that received the support of only one member of the Riigikogu. Considering there's not enough time, I'm talking about the ones that got two votes. These are to reduce 50% of political party support, withdraw EUR 415000 from the gender equality programme and reduce investment grants to Rail Baltic by EUR 31 million. The rest I'm talking about when I'm given the opportunity to do this in a round of questions. Five amendments have been received from members of the Riigikogu. In Amendment 13, Mr Lauri offered to increase the funding of the R &amp; D &amp; I programme by 18.74 million euros. As the source was money to deepen the Port of Mighty and subsidies to farmers, this proposal was supported by 3 votes against. Liina Kersna proposed to increase by EUR 60000 the amount that goes to the NGO's School of Initiating Teacher Support. This should have been done again at the expense of the Port of Mõntu and the proposal was supported by two members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, 7 against and 3 abstentions. Urve Tiidus offered to increase the support of the private forest centre by 100000 euros. It was supported by 5 members of the Commission, against 7. The proposal was not supported. To note that the state budget contribution of this foundation is currently EUR 1.3 million and corresponds to what was agreed in the forestry development plan. Aivar Sõerd offered to send a reserve of 2.3 million euros from the financial transactions of the Ministry of Finance, and I will try to quote with maximum precision what was stated in the explanation: 'The Estonian state has not committed to the Greek State. ' That sounded very serious, and I asked my colleague Sõerd to send me some additional materials. And he did. Thank you. Additional information on this was also sent to me by the Ministry of Finance, whose representative in the Commission explained that in due course we have made commitments to the ESM that no one has denied. For example, next year's obligation is that we have to transfer this amount to the ESM account in August and in August next year's ESM shareholders from the countries of the European Union decide where they will channel this money. So this is not about going into the Greek State's account. And if there is anything like that in the explanation of the state budget text, I might say, after receiving further information from the Ministry of Finance, that this is a misleading formulation. Jüri Jaanson proposed in his amendment that the support of Olympic winners could be increased by EUR 39000 in the administrative costs of EAS. It was supported by 4 members and 7 members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs opposed it. The proposal was not supported. I think the point is that the ten people we are talking about have already received this support to a greater extent in recent times. Next year, it will be EUR 1182 per month, which compared to this year, if I am not mistaken, this year it will be EUR 683 per month, which is a very large increase. Having examined all these amendments, the Commission took procedural decisions. One decision was to propose to the Riigikogu Board that this draft be sent to second reading by today, 15 November. There were nine for it, three against, and no abstentions. It was also proposed that the first reading be closed, with 7 votes against and 5 abstentions. The deadline for the amendments was 10 working days: 29 November at 5.15 p.m. Thank you. And thank you for the extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U90	Soh! I didn't need any extra time! Five minutes wasn't even spent! All right, questions for the waitress. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U91	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As a result of the increase in excise duties, border trade has all crossed the line and we have reached a situation where the excise revenue earmarked for the Estonian budget is not collected here, but goes to the Latvian budget. Not to mention the enormous damage caused to the economic environment at all. The figures have become too large to be able to simply turn a blind eye to it. The situation is serious. The Minister of Finance here yesterday, as he said, could cancel the next increase in excise duty, which should enter into force on 1 February. You have supported this idea. In Question Time today, the Prime Minister described the proposal of the Minister of Finance as a derogatoryly skeptical idea. What happens then? What's the coalition up to? Are you going to do nothing and just wait until the excise increases take effect on 1 February?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U92	Time's up, the question's clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U93	Thank you. I don't remember supporting this proposal. I've made the following point. I'm not a member of the Government of the Republic or the Coalition Council. I am not the person who is shaping our fiscal policy. I look forward, like all of you in this Chamber, to what the above-mentioned associations will come to, and I hope that this issue will be dealt with. I actually know that this issue is being dealt with. But border trade can be supported in other ways, not just by keeping alcohol duty at this year's level. So we are working in this direction, and I hope that we will soon hear about some proposals and see some result already in January. But what no one, one person or the other has spoken of, I do not comment on these personal statements.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U94	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U95	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! We have now learned that you believe that a parliamentary state does not exist in Estonia. The chairman of the Committee on Finance thinks that Parliament is a rubber stamp, or at least the Committee on Monetary Affairs is a rubber stamp that only implements what the government is telling us to do in this house. Given that the structural deficit seems to be almost six times different from what the Ministry of Finance is forecasting, and that there is also a lower rate of excise duty receipts, I ask. Since this knowledge that the structural deficit indicator could turn out to be quite different, came to us during the first and second readings, did not the Committee on Monetary Affairs discuss this absolutely? However, if the proposals of the Reform Party and the Free Party were not suitable for you to reduce costs, the Coalition could have tried to find an agreement that would reduce costs in order to achieve a structural balance in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U96	Thank you too, although there is nothing to thank you for, because you do not want to hear me or simply do not understand the Estonian language in which I speak. I've told you many times that I admit my mistakes. The Estonian language is not my native language; I may be wrong to speak it, but I have made it clear to you that both the Government of the Republic and the Coalition Council are involved. The Coalition Council is an association composed of representatives of three political groups which form the majority in the Riigikogu. All decisions taken there require the consent of all members of the coalition. Was there any other way in the past, or is this mechanism unknown to you? I would remind you that the term rubber stamp was used during your government, and that's exactly how it was. You were the rubber stamp, we weren't. We have a coalition agreement, and you will not find any more negative in this budget than this mythical missing budget balance. This is your business: you have something to attack. But I am telling you that everything is happening very democraticly. We see problems, we deal with them. I would like to remind you that there is no car tax and no packaging tax, next year the increase in excise duty on diesel that you have put in place will be cancelled. So when the time comes when we have to deal with it, we'll definitely deal with it. According to our Minister, this is already being dealt with. But in answer to your question, which was in your penultimate sentence: no, we have not discussed that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U97	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Reform Party and the Free Party have several very sensible amendments and, in general, you also presented them in your presentation. One characteristic example is Amendment 11 from our party. It aims to reduce the total labour and management costs of the ministry's area of government by 15 million. The amendment has a very objective justification: as the number of people of working age decreases, there is no justification for the expansion of the public sector. I conclude from your earlier words that the coalition agrees on the fact that the reduction in the working age population is an insignificant factor; the costs can still be increased. However, I ask: in a few years' time, will this position in the coalition, or will you personally change? Could a budget be drawn up with fewer workers, fewer taxpayers, and a cut in costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U99	Thank you. The year 2009, you were in charge of the finances, showed that everything was possible. It is possible to increase VAT in two weeks; it is possible to rob local authorities of three additional budgets. Anything's possible! But with all due respect, Urve, I ask you to remember two numbers. I have to specify the period during which this has happened, but, if I remember correctly, the number of employees on the Estonian market has fallen by 0.2% over the last two years. At the same time, the number of employees in ministries and other public authorities has fallen by 1.3%: 1565 people. This means that even if there has been some wage growth on the average, it is still below the average, it has been done with its own internal reserves: people have been laid off and made redundant, and their payroll fund is, to a certain extent, divided between other employees. This is the real situation. I must say, however, how can you criticise it when, in fact, your party has been an accomplice to the whole process of recent years as the leading party of the former coalition. This process goes on from year to year. I find it sad that the salaries of public employees are growing more slowly than the average wage across Estonia. But when we touch on the issue of how many people have been reduced in public authorities in a few years, this is a good example. Knowing this tendency, I don't see the danger you're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U100	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! In circumstances where the state budget is structurally negative, is it appropriate and polite that members of the Riigikogu give gifts for 4 million euros? I mean the so-called 'roof money'. It's like giving gifts at the expense of someone else, including the recipient of the gift. These same gift allocations will actually have to be paid up by the following governments. Is that appropriate and polite?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U102	Thank you. So we're talking about penthouse money? I remember a very witty and clever Polish man, Stanislaw Jerzy Lec. He has formulated such an aforism that the length of a minute depends on which side of the toilet door you're standing on. I hope you understand that idea. I have already answered on this subject several times yesterday and today. And it really is that as long as you're in the coalition, everything will satisfy you. If you're not in the coalition, you're about to criticize the situation. When it comes to structural balance, it is very difficult to find any common criteria according to which this link exists. It would be a tragedy, but according to the state budget law, it is not. The forecasts from the Treasury Department say that in a few years we'll be back in balance and we'll be fine. So I think that if in the near future there is already less time than a year and a half before the elections, so happens that the Reform Party is back in government and you are the chairman of the Monetary Commission and you are standing on this platform, someone from the floor, perhaps even Stalnukhin, is asking the exact same question. It's a game we've been playing for years. It is played during every budgetary procedure. I don't think there's anything negative about the rooftop money. I live in Narva. I only spend the days in Tallinn when I am in Riigikogu meetings. That's less than a third of the year, two-thirds I'm at home. I'm walking around the city, and I know very well what problems one or another organization in the third sector has. And if I try to solve them with the help of the state budget, I am often told that this is not going to happen. When I talk about it in the municipality, I'm told that you want to take money from someone else with your offer. I can see how tense the government's distribution of money is. But sometimes it is an organization or action that is essential to support. I'm proud that next year, I'm gonna give my money a good amount, almost all that money to the pet shelter. I've been there a couple of times, and it's impossible for cats and dogs to live there. It's gonna be all right next year. It is a good thing that such an opportunity exists, and I thank God and those people who created this tradition a quarter of a century ago. I think we're okay with the rooftop money. No one in this hall dares to put it in their pockets. Everyone knows who's in trouble, who needs help, whether it's kindergarten, local theatre, or some NGO. Everyone thinks they're doing something that's really necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U103	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your previous reply, you spoke about your money. Could you be more specific about what kind of money you were talking about? Are you going to support animal shelter from your salary, or what does that mean? And I have the impression that you're always trying to convince me that if something has ever been done in any way, you always have to do it. I ask you this: is this budget really so tense? All these promises need to be implemented and you have always stressed in your speeches that the weak must be supported. But then please tell me why disabled pensioners, beneficiaries of disability benefits should pay more tax. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U105	Thank you for your question. You deliberately and abusively confused things in the introductory part of your question: when I talk about roofing money, you try to label it as my personal money. That's your problem. Like I said once, and after that, a hundred times, you don't want to know what I'm saying. But that's it. As far as pensions and subsidies are concerned, this issue, as you certainly know, is due to the question put by the Chancellor of Justice to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which we are currently discussing. One debate has already taken place. We have talked about this with the Ministry of Finance and Social Affairs, and the Chancellor of Justice has also been here. We are dealing with this problem and we will take care of it as much as circumstances allow us to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U106	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Stalnukhin! You have made a thorough presentation of the amendments and you have also reached the Coalition Council as some mysterious policy-maker. In the meantime, Governor of Eesti Pank Ardo Hansson has been to the Riigikogu and has visited Alar Karis from the National Audit Office. Valdis Dombrovskis from the European Commission points out that the structural deficit in the Estonian budget will be greater than we are told. There have been many of these macroeconomic signals, and I am disappointed that you did not stop at all. Has this been discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs or in the Coalition Council? Do you confirm this conclusion that, as it seems to me, has been made silently, that Mr Hansson, Mr Karis and Mr Dombrovskis do not understand anything about the budget of the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U108	Thank you. That's too harsh an assessment. Andres, you're wrong. You should not give such an assessment to such important people, to such large experts, even in the form of a question. But here, you and I, and probably a lot of people in this room, are splitting up. Let me give you a few examples to make it clearer. We are talking so much about this structural balance that we could really spend a little more time on it. In 1858 in the United States, for example, two sisters reported that they could talk to the dead. When it began to be controlled, it turned out that really, if they asked them a question, these dead souls would respond by giving them some clicks. Overwatched: hands visible, no mechanisms are used. And that was the beginning of a movement like spiritism. Its supporters were also very wise and logical people, such as Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. There were so many, Chesterton and others. But 45 years later, in 1893 these two sisters admitted that they could click with their toes. A normal person doesn't know how to do it, it takes a very long time to train, so no one thought of it. But spiritism had already spread around the world and no one wanted to hear that it was actually wrong. Mankind quite often embraces an idea and makes it an obsession. Please tell me why we have become so wise only in recent years! Where was that wisdom before that, all those 20 years after the restoration of independence! Balance. Would anyone like to see what countries and how many people there are who hold onto it at all? Why do I have to believe the experts who didn't see everything collapse in December 2008 in a month? Tell me, explain this, please! It's a question of faith, I'll tell you again. It's just a matter of faith. I'm actually afraid of other things, I'm afraid that the world economy is fluctuating. The graph of how he swings is completely there. The World Bank is working on it, and I'll see when the next peak comes. All this periodicity is completely in place there and depends on these peaks how the global economy is doing. At a certain point, he might collapse. How about we talk about this if we look at what kind of discussions are around it? No, there's an obsession, and that's it. And we all have to march in one row after this idea. It reminds me of some demonstration of 1 May 30 years ago: you want or you don't want to, you can only move in one direction and only under one flag. Why are you guys like that? Why do you think those people who have been entrusted by the majority of voters have to be subject to expert opinion? Let me remind you of the expert definition. The expert is the person who is 'not our geography'. We know each other, and we don't trust each other at all. When Urmas talks, for me it's sometimes like this, well, the wind blows. What I'm saying is exactly the same for him. But we agree that someone outside this hall is definitely smarter. Why do you think so bad of yourself? And the Lord here has nothing to do with it. I think we have the right to trust ourselves, among others, in a democratic country. And the fact that a very authoritative agency raised our economic rating a few days ago proves what I said.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U109	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U110	Thank you, good chairman and waitress. I'll ask you that. The current coalition is making quite large tax changes, which are expected to maintain people's trust in the state and to pay these taxes. At the same time, when the state collects taxes, it also undertakes to provide its people with certain services, opportunities. It would also be reasonable to comply with these obligations. However, this is not quite the case in many areas, and we referred to one of them with our amendment. The state has committed itself to the disposal of nature conservation land, but if we do not take into account this year's declarations, it will not have been possible to comply with it in 11 years. What can you do in such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U111	Thank you. I cannot say much more to you than what I said in commenting on the amendment. If my memory doesn't fool me, then EUR 13.4 million will be allocated for the next three years and the Ministry thinks it should solve the problem. I don't do forestry, I can't imagine the problems there. I can see the woods being cut down in my neighborhood and the bears climbing the city more and more often, not to mention foxes and smaller animals. But the state is fulfilling its responsibilities. You know, don't take it personally, but sometimes I wonder if people have any previous work experience in this hall. Of course, I know everyone's good people, everyone's worked. Then why don't you know the fact that it's not just the one who doesn't do anything that's wrong? If you do something, even with the best of will, there will always be some components that interfere with one or the other of your actions that will not allow dreams or plans to come true. And then you just have to put your head together and try to solve the problem. So when people talk about problems, I don't see a disaster or a panic situation. I see this place where you need to direct your brain work right away and figure out how to fix it. And in this case, I am convinced by the comment given by the Ministry of Finance: 13.4 million should solve this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U112	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U113	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! For its part, the Reform Party Group tabled four amendments. The point was to draw your attention to the structural balance and the pursuit of it in order to make your life a little easier. You have reported that these votes took place in the committee, but it would be good if you could explain in more detail what debate took place in the committee on these issues. What were the main arguments against it, and why did you decide so?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U114	Thank you for your question. I would like to mention, for example, your amendment 33 to set off EUR 33 million in investments in rental homes. I've been trying to understand for a very long time, by the way, it was one of the biggest problems when I was preparing for a second reading, why you operate with this number, even though the rental house building programme is 12.5 million. Where do these additional 20,5 million come from in addition to the amount allocated to rental homes in the state budget? However, I do not know if I am using the right word, and the debate has gone to ideological level. It is absolutely understandable that Andres Ammas, on behalf of the Free Party Group, announced when he began to defend the amendments that, overall, these are out of balance figures. Your representatives introduced exactly the same, although the difference here is slightly larger than this gap forecast: there are 65 million, not 61, if you sum up everything. But the thing was, from the beginning, the goal was to solve that question. What difference does it make whether it was regional transport or the construction of rental homes? It didn't matter much anymore. That is why the debate was limited to the absolute majority of us listening to the Ministry of Finance, or government representative, and then making a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U115	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U116	Thank you, good manager. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Prime Minister got stuck answering me in Question Time. That is why I am going to ask you the same question again. The budget for the following year will also be linked to the transition to graduated income tax and the implementation of a tax-free rate of EUR 500. However, there is, in essence, one and a half months before this rate is applied, a mess. Please tell me how this system.. I am talking about the tax-free rate of EUR 500 next year. Who and where must the declaration be made to implement it? How, for example, does this affect pensioners or teachers? What about the advice given to teachers in training, for example, that you should not come at all to apply for this rate at the beginning of the year, because otherwise you are threatened with a decent refund at the end of the year? What exactly does this system look like from 1 January?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U117	Thank you. We discussed this week a situation that theoretically arises after 1 January. There was also a representative of the Ministry of Finance who, by then, had not yet been able to write down just a very few amendments, which we will be discussing in the Committee on Monetary Affairs next Monday, or 20 November. An amendment to the draft, bearing the number 499, is envisaged and will be avoided. Thank God it turned out in time, we found out. We have listened to your questions, which, in my opinion, a month or a month and a half ago were precisely related to this situation, but we do not have such experienced financial specialists as ladies and gentlemen Sõerd and Ligi, not to mention Holsmer. However, the problem is now clear and will be resolved. The next Monday after the Commission meeting, I can personally present to you the amendment that the Ministry of Finance will make on this issue. Thank you, of course, for equating the Prime Minister. That made my role very important. But that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U118	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U119	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. When the state budget was put together, the government managed to reduce the structural deficit from an earlier forecast of 0.4% of GDP to 0.25%. This was seen in government press releases as a bit of a job, although this decrease is not very significant: about 35 million should be expressed in euro. My question is: what measures have brought about this improvement in position? I have also asked this at least once in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and also here in Question Time, but I have not received an answer. What were the measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U120	Thank you. We have not discussed our attitude towards structural and nominal balance in the Commission. I've already explained this several times here. If I hear anything interesting, I'll try to remember it. It just sounded like an interesting number. However, according to my memory, we are talking about 61 million of these amounts now. But that doesn't change things. In principle, we could discuss this in the Commission sometime. Unfortunately, for example, when the Governor of Eesti Pank was visiting us, for some reason no one asked such a question. But we could do it. Anytime!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U121	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U122	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! I will ask you a little more detailed question about Amendment 8. This concerns the resources of the State Chancellery and their distribution between ministries. It is explained here that 1.8 million is needed to prepare Estonia's Presidency of the Council of the European Union and to implement the action plan. Am I missing something, or is Estonia really planning on holding the Presidency of the European Union next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U123	Thank you for your question. That also raised my question. I must admit my mistake that I did not put such a question when we listened to the amendments. The only excuse is that no one in the 12 members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs asked this question. But I've been aware of the question and I've already sent it on today.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U124	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U125	Good waitress! 10 million have been deducted from the Republic's defence budget. In addition to 10 billion, it's really a head bust, it's a small amount of money, there's no point in talking about it. As they said yesterday at the Forum, this is a symbolic cut. I want to ask you now. This $10 million is meant to send a message. To whom is this message sent, to which country? And what is the content of this message?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U126	I am not a supporter of conspirology in any field. I know that the Department of Defense is one of those institutions that I can say, based on my long experience, that if the Department of Defense asks for anything, it's gonna get it. This is the last area where savings will be made. And when it's written down, I don't know... Funny thing is, we have discussed this in the Commission about the fact that if you spend years spending tens and tens of millions of euros to train soldiers to shoot, sooner or later their mastery will increase and there will be no need for so much ammunition for training. On one thing, I'm sure every time the Department of Defense announces what his plans are, these plans will be supported. I think this is the right place for me to say one thing. During our debate on 24 October, Minister of Defence Jüri Luik stressed that a well-functioning and effective Defence Forces must be well-armed and staffed. To this end, infantry combat vehicles are obtained, support Finns are rebuilt, weapons are acquired, various ammunition, communication and IT equipment, clothing equipment, individual equipment and personal protective equipment are obtained. The necessary infrastructure will continue to be built, and the priority will be to increase the payroll fund for active troops. Members of the Commission asked about the purchase and conversion of armored vehicles. Interested in funding the Defence League and increased investment. They also wanted to know how civil and military cooperation would work. In no way did the Minister of Defence inform the Commission that he had been harmed. So I don't see any problem with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U127	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Personally, I do not consider the statements made by you or another member of the Riigikogu here as a cold wind or simply a wind message that needs to be let in and out of one ear. These speeches provide a great deal of information. And I think it is polite to thank the speaker for the questions that give him the opportunity to express his views. It's part of polite communication. But how effective do you consider the current excise policy to be from the point of view of health, which has been referred to here a zillion times? Has this affected your personal health? You seem very convinced that all the methods taken will help to improve the health of Estonians.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U129	Thank you. I should be answering right now that we didn't discuss it between the two readings and end it. But I have to admit, you really gave me the opportunity to express my point of view. After I'd seen the tables of how much sugar has been sweetened in the drinks of colades, peps, fanatics, and all over the world, and how many zero-sugar drinks, i.e. no sugar, I haven't bought sweetened drinks in the past six months. If I've bought a soft drink, it's only one that says no sugar. Yeah, it's been affected, and it's been affected pretty seriously. However, as far as the rest of the matter is concerned, unfortunately, I have to admit that we really have not discussed it in any of these four sessions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U130	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'm coming back to a 10-million-dollar defense cut. You said you didn't see the problem. I'm sorry, I can't agree with you. I see a problem in this, and the reason is very simple: our ammunition reserves are considerable not for months or weeks, but for days. We count ammo supplies in a combat situation for one soldier, not for months or weeks, but for days. We all know that it is also possible to fight cold weapons, even stones and sticks, of course, but today this is probably not a very effective way of protecting the sovereignty, integrity and independence of the Republic of Estonia. So I see a problem here. My question is: can you tell who will benefit, after all, if Estonia's attitude towards increasing ammunition reserves is about such that it will not be possible to find 10 million euros in the course of the year, which is actually a negligible amount, in order to increase ammunition reserves?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U131	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U132	Thank you for your question. As a diplomat, you know the military field much better than I do as a teacher. I have nothing to do with this. I don't know if we have enough ammo for one day or one week. If this problem caused you so much pain, then you could have made an amendment, but it is not. However, it was rude that I spoke before only three of your amendments. You have now given me the opportunity to repay this debt and to talk about the rest. Amendment 56: reduce by half a million the expenses of the Office of the President. There was a proposal not to bear the expenses associated with any real estate problems of the previous president. There was a comment that, according to the law, Ilves would receive money from this budget, just like Rüütel. We talked about a total volume of EUR 180000 or EUR 190000. Next: reduce by EUR 245000 the funding of the NO99 Foundation of Theatre. This theater is either ultra-liberal or radical, I don't remember what the word was used there, but in fact, radicality and super-liberality are more or less the same. It was also proposed to reduce the financing of the ERR by EUR 5 million, i.e. to stop funding ETV+ and Radio 4. These are Russian-speaking channels. The explanation stated that no one would look at them or listen to them anyway, which I would have the courage to argue with. Next: reduce the funding of the school network by EUR 5 million and the funding of the higher education programme by 3 million. There was only one member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs in favour of this. Next proposal: to withdraw EUR 250000 from an organisation called the Institute of Human Rights. I must admit that I did not vote against it, I was impartial. After that, it turned out that I confused two organizations. The person who frightens me horribly still works in another place, but it seemed to me that at this Institute of Human Rights. Amendment 62: reduce the costs of combating climate change by 600000 and something else by EUR 8000. Proposal No 63: reduce EAS financing by 3.34 million. Proposal No 64: not to allocate EUR 300000 to the UN Security Council candidate campaign. Proposal No 65: Remove 3 million Estonian spending on external aid from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs line. You can't agree to that. If you're hoping to get help from someone else, you're gonna have to help someone in good times. One sensible proposal, in my opinion, is to increase the payroll fund of the Police and Border Guard Board by 3.5 million. However, the sources proposed in the proposal are not suitable: they are 3.34 million and a quarter million from this unfortunate theatre for EAS. The suggestion was that the theater-favourite Social Democrats could finance it from their own money. And last suggestion: to allocate EUR 8 million to farmers for crisis assistance at the expense of ETV+ and external aid. So these are your amendments. I'm not reading out a proposal to increase DOD spending by 10 million. If you ask me something, there must be some ground for it, but it's not here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U133	The Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U134	Thank you, good vice chairman. Mr President of the Commission. I've been listening to you here for an hour, and two thirds of the answers are in the tone that you did the same. The opposition will do that, the coalition will do what it cares about!? Why don't you have the ambition to be better than the Reform Party, to be a better leader of the government coalition, to differ in your behavior, attitude, engagement, opportunities!? Where did that ambition go when you took over the government about a year ago? The Free Party Group has very high expectations. Today, you're demonstrating that it wasn't like it wasn't, it's all been illustrative. Why do you also have no ambition to be different from the Reform Party in terms of normal behaviour?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U135	You mentioned how many answers? Quarter? Or half? Three-quarters? How much? Two-thirds? We don't usually take responsibility for what we say in this Chamber. We can talk no matter what. You have this right, too, and you will make very good use of this right. You can take out a verbatim from my first answer to the question to your question. And please, do this thing for once! Look how much of the text that came out of my mouth responds to your accusation that all I'm saying is that they did it, the others did it! I always thought I was here with very smart people, and they realize that this is how it happens in life, whether you like it or not. But it's just a marginal note. Now about ambition. My ambitions are inside this document. A few years ago, or rather just a year ago, I never thought I'd ever hold such a thing in my hand. For me, the fact that 98% of the workers in my city, as the latest analysis showed, are earning below average is hugely important. The system we're going to cross is for my constituents, for the people in my neighborhood! It's about the whole of Ida-Viru County. This percentage is even higher than on average in Estonia, where 86% of the population will benefit from this change: we will win 97.98%. For me, the same free transport, educational opportunities, job-seeking opportunities are of the utmost importance, not all of which go under it. For me, this very program of building rental homes is of immense importance. I hope someday you'll come to Narva and I'll show you nice places: shoreward promenade, blind garden, bastions. But if you want, I'll take you to the dorms. Now there's no question about why you should build rental homes. Because you can see the conditions in which some people still live in our time, in the present age and in the context of the assessment we make of our society in general. These conditions are impossible. And these people do not differ from people of the same social affiliation in Norway or Sweden, but there the country does much more for its subjects. We've had that time, too. Jürgen is right to say something here that I shouldn't say, but if you ask me about this, I will. My ambitions are within the state budget for next year, and I have never believed that they will be fulfilled on such a large scale.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U136	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U137	Thank you. It is quite unfamiliar to hear that the chairman of the Monetary Commission denies the importance of financial expertise and, as it seems to me, even ridicules the views of Eesti Pank and many other experts on structural balance and other things. It's strange to hear that. But let's face the facts! If, after all, the policy of alcohol duty clearly does not support the coalition's plans, if there is a reduction in receipts and an increase in border trade, perhaps you will once again explain why no conclusions have been drawn from it. Why are excise duties increasing and such inadequate revenue forecasts being made? And is there any chance of sobriety?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U138	Thank you. That last sentence sounded good: Is there any chance of sobriety? We're talking alcohol duty. But that's it. I'm not denying experts and experts, I'm just saying that, like any human being, I have the right to think for myself and draw conclusions. I don't have to watch what some experts say, just because they're experts. Imagine, for example, a vital situation that you are divorced and have a lawyer and a husband has a lawyer. What kind of madman would you say that you have to listen to what your husband's lawyer says? Don't take it personally! I was just giving an example so that you can finally understand: there are enormous numbers of opinions and we live in a free world. We have freedom of information and I have the freedom to choose who or what I support. You're trying to force me into a certain channel: only you can walk that way, only you can march along it. Why are you doing this? I don't know where it comes from. Yes, these people are working to provide, among other things, some expertise. Where does it come from, then, that we must act according to their conclusions? If something goes wrong, will they bear any responsibility? Give me no example of when one or the other expert has been responsible for giving the wrong estimate. Give an example, please! So we're thinking with our heads, and we're also thinking that this same excise duty might cause some problems, but we're working on it. And that's the question I answered about 40 minutes ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U139	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U140	Thank you, manager. Mr President of the Commission. There are no doubt two key personalities in the state budget process, the Minister for Finance and the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. My question is somewhat repeated by the previous one, but I am still asking. The Minister of Finance has promised to consider stopping the increase in alcohol duty. That was just yesterday. You have also just said publicly that it is possible to give up excise duty increases. There is such a proverb in Estonia: 'Man's word, bull's horn! ' From today's answers, I conclude that you are a categorical man. That is why I am asking quite specifically and categorically: when will these words become acts and the increase in excise duty will be cancelled?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U141	Thank you. In particular, I said that anything is possible. You're narrowing it down to the broad opportunity I've pointed out for the narrow argument that it certainly is. There's something I want to explain here. There are people who believe that one true leader, one true chief, knows everything, does everything right, and all that needs to be done is to find or appoint such a person, usually he is appointed, and this choice is usually wrong, and he already knows what to do. And there is another view: listen to as many people as possible, think and consult them, and then make a decision. I'm from the other camp. What I am talking about now is that discussions take place both in coalition groups and in the Government of the Republic. If they give a result, this hall will be the first to know about it after the Committee on Monetary Affairs. With all due respect, it's kind of stupid to provoke me to say what I don't really want to say. It's never gonna work. I've learned enough lessons in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U142	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U143	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good performer! Clearly, the budget is presented by the Ministry. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, there is also a majority of the coalition's representatives. Here's my question. Philosopher a little on the subject of whether there really are no people on the side of the coalition in the Committee on Monetary Affairs who would think a little differently than the Ministry, where this budget came from. And were the amendments that were not suitable for the ministry really to be rejected? Does the Commission's coalition party think exactly the same way as the Ministry of Finance? Is there any chance that something that the Ministry does not like will be approved by the Commission and the Commission will say that listen, this thing can still be done, and will instruct the Ministry to make changes and perhaps to balance the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U144	Thank you. Yeah, I think these things happen, and quite often, but these decisions are made within the coalition, as far as I know. And if a particular task is given, it will be fulfilled. It usually comes from the chairmen of the political groups after things have been thought out in the political groups. But I want to add one thought, I hope I'm not wrong. You spoke of the fact that the proposals of the opposition groups are not appropriate and whether we ourselves do not want to change anything. I must confess to you that I hope you will not tell anyone about this, but I had a terrible wish to support three of your amendments. There's one I was talking about, but in a few more places, I'd really support it right now. But here's another question. This is coalition discipline, and political discipline, they are equally important, aren't they? We have to hold onto them. Otherwise there is no party, otherwise there is no coalition. These things should be clear to every adult, except for the Free Party, who is free to apologize! Yeah, you all have your own opinion. Yeah, you've been talking about it, and I'm talking about it. So, yes, sometimes there are additional things that we would like to do. I'll tell you one thing right now. A few weeks ago, I found out and also checked that the salaries of the people working with us on the main committees have not changed in the last four years. Before this last change four years ago, their wages had changed eight years ago. This is incredible! When the new Head of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu visited our political group, he said that he still thought that the lowest wages were in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but it turned out that the lowest ones were in the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. I'd like this situation to change. I have seen specialists of high professional quality in any commission in the Riigikogu. I don't want to think they're going to work somewhere in the private sector for a higher salary. We have initially coordinated this idea among the political groups, and within the next ten days we will also come before you with a proposal to support specifically the growth of the Commission officials' payroll fund. These people are helping us very much in our work and could end up in a situation where their wages are even lower than those of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So these things happen, and I think they happen quite often. I just never had access to that information before. It is also up to us, but it is important to have the same coalition agreement, which will make all these major changes to the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U145	Ants Laaneots.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U146	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr Stalnukhin! I am also concerned by the reduction in the defence budget of next year by EUR 10 million, which was also expressed here by Mart Helme. Its explanation has been very vague. It is claimed that the war industry in the Western countries is overloaded, that it will not be able to carry out the supplies for which the money was allocated in time. We checked it out. It's not that bad. In fact, anything can be done. The second question is why this money, which was allocated under a specific article, cannot be transferred under the second article. We have bottlenecks and essential activities in other areas as well. I also asked here yesterday why this money cannot be used to improve the infrastructure of the 2nd Infantry Brigade or to support the procurement of self-propelled artillery. If your coalition partners said that 60 million will still be in force, then next year these 10 million could have been transferred under the second article and made available for this procurement. And now here's the question: what exactly is the defence budget? I'm a long story. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U147	When I left the barracks in 1984, I knew for sure that no officer, no general, would ever take orders from me again. But here's the feeling that the general's boots are still paying something. But you say that everything can be done. What can anything be done? Are you going to the Boeing plant to assemble some helicopter, or are you going to the German plant to assemble some kind of tank? What can be done? You're asking me about something that needs to be explained for ten more minutes! What can be done? I'm convinced that the Department of Defense is the institution that gets the moment he needs, everything he wants. That's exactly how it's been all these years. I don't know much more about military planning than practical political science talks about it. But when it comes to technology, ammunition, etc., I would like people to talk about it, who depend on this budget. They could say something like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U148	Yeah, it took a lot longer than two minutes. Let me remind you that you will be able to ask two questions, but not twelve at a time, then it will be a little long. I'll ask the waitress to answer in spite of everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U149	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U150	Thank you. I will continue to ask my question consistently in order to find out in this Chamber how the tax-free rate will still be applied next year. I ask you once again: can you explain how, for example, the tax-free rate will apply to teachers next year? And more broadly, do each recipient have to make a separate application to use the tax-free rate? And what about the recommendations given to teachers, for example, to make it more reasonable for them not to use this widely advertised 500-euro tax-free rate, because if they use it and make a statement, they may be threatened by a large refund claim at the end of the year or at the beginning of 2019. How exactly will this system apply next year, one and a half months from now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U151	Thank you. I honestly have to admit, I don't understand why you're talking about teachers at all. My wife is a teacher, and my circle of communication is largely composed of teachers. There are no people among them who earn more than EUR 1775. There aren't any! There may be people in your neighborhood who make 5,000 and 10,000 euros, but there isn't one in my neighborhood. I don't know what you're talking about. Why is it like a teacher's problem? As regards the writing of statements once or more often, this will all be regulated by the amendment or proposals that we expect for the Committee on Monetary Affairs on Monday to discuss this issue. And if anyone thinks I have the ability to read what's in the head of the officials of the Ministry of Finance who are sitting around writing these amendments, I'll let you know I don't have that skill. On Monday, we will receive the proposals and we will discuss them. That's how it works in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I'm not gonna predict what's coming from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U152	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U153	It has been said a lot that the rise in alcohol excise has put a terrible bang on South-East and South-East Estonian country shops. It's true, there's been a bang. Now it was said that other measures must be found to keep them alive. I ask, where's the logic? I quote young Helmet, our new classic who has said that the socialist and left-wing idea is that the money that is in people's pockets is in the wrong place. In other words, this money must first be taken away and given back by the state as a gift. Where does that make sense? First we put the country store in a very bad position and then we start looking for measures! Is this an optimal, economical state administration or a normal budgetary process? How do you interpret it now? Where's the logic?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U154	Thank you. Where's the logic? I do not know if the Reform Party is a socialist party, but your behaviour in 2009 corresponds exactly to the very beautiful sentence you said: money in a foreign pocket, like no owner's. On Monday, we talked to two ministers about what can be done to ensure that these small border shops do not depend solely on the sale of alcohol. What practical steps can be taken to push the life of the village forward, somehow developing it? There's got to be something else besides drinking. We were given various examples of how this problem has been dealt with in one place or another. But it's not even at project level at first, it's at words level. As I have said many times today, it is being dealt with. And when ministers go to the political groups to talk about what they are doing, we will have the opportunity to ask at any time what are the plans and achievements in this area as well. Well, we'll talk about it. But one marginal note at last, too. There really is a problem, but it's embarrassing to see how happy you are. The joy of pity is not really a joy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U155	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U156	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I am very pleased that when you answered the previous question, you spoke about our amendments, some of them reading out somewhat ironic. I would like you and everyone in this Chamber, and the general public, to get the real meaning of these proposals. The real point of our proposals is very clear: the state budget is not just a money distribution document. The state budget must also be able to put an end to irresponsible waste and legalised corruption. An example of an irresponsible waste can be found in EAS's Malaysian trip. The example of legalised corruption can be found in the infinite saga of the Ärma farm. We point out that this practice is unacceptable and therefore we have proposed corresponding savings. And I am asking you: do you agree that the state budget should also be viewed from the point of view that waste and the legalisation of corruption are as limited as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U157	Yes, I absolutely agree with you. What concerns both Malaysia and the farm of Ärma has caused me quite a lot of pain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U158	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Stalnukhin! I am not going to investigate here, for many times, and exactly what you said about Mr Tõnis' proposal and why the Prime Minister considers the rejection of the increase in excise duty to be a skeptic. How good is the Commission's review of the deficit in the collection of excise duties on alcohol? Have you compared the analysis of the Ministry of Finance and the producers, which may be one on one side and the other on the other side? When will this be the next time Minister Tõniste, who seems to have more recent data than those on which previous decisions have been taken, will come to the Commission? When are we going to find out about this whole situation and all the possible forecasts?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U160	Thank you. Recently, as the issue is clearly up, this question has still been asked both by the Financial Supervision Authority and the Governor of Eesti Pank. And there have been other visitors who have been asked this question. And that definitely has to be dealt with, I totally agree. I've talked about this many times today. Only in view of what we have been dealing with for the last four weeks, the second reading of the draft law that we are currently debating is in no way compatible. I myself am currently gathering views on what this whole process is going to look like, for example, from the point of view of stocks. We have heard a pretty interesting prediction based mainly on which stocks have been collected. But things could change at a certain point. I don't know that. I've never sold anything. I've never done trade. I have not produced alcohol and, frankly, I am also quite modest as a consumer. However, in replying specifically, I would say that, by February at the latest, the Commission would like to see this picture. I think it will be possible to get an overview of both this year and January.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U161	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U162	Thank you. Mr Stalnukhin, I assure you that I support the view that the government is responsible for the budget, and the Riigikogu should not have much to change here. But my concern is that the government is not responsible. Our opposition partner here asked why you have no ambition to be better than the Reform Party government and Reform Party. Let's make a deal, and I'm coming to help you! Please answer where you are better than us! Little hint is that we did the structural budget surplus, you did the deficit. We listened to Eesti Pank, we listened to the European Commission and their forecasts. You're not listening. We prepared a strategy for getting out of the Euro-grant period, and you didn't. Your attitude is that everything is positive. Please state the arguments. I'm here to help you right now, so you can answer the opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U163	Thank you. It's a very personal question. If I start to answer honestly, here I insult a lot of people in this hall. In my opinion, my party and the Reform Party are not comparable. I see specific problems that have arisen over the years thanks to you, which have taken away jobs that have made people poor. But this is not the subject of today's debate. Jurgen, we can sit down sometime. Let's get a pack of kefir, pour it out and talk!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U164	Ants Laaneots, your question! Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U165	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr Stalnukhin, I have a suggestion: why don't we agree with you in a comradely manner that you will not play a schoolmaster in front of the members of the Riigikogu in the future, be smart here, but answer questions! I didn't get an answer from you. What is the defence budget for next year? Please respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U166	2.1% of GDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U167	Please, Terje Trei!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U168	Thank you! Good waitress! I've been here for a long time listening to these questions and answers. You have said that you do not quite understand forestry, because it is not your specialty. And from your reply to my colleague, Keit Pentus, I understand that you have also not understood that the tax-free rate of EUR 500 applies up to a salary of EUR 1200, but not up to EUR 1700. You have told us many times today why we want to force you into a vagina you don't want to go to. Do you agree that we can continue to be responsible for the state budget, where we feel responsible for Estonia's sustainability?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U169	Thank you. That's a very good question, actually. If you don't make me go with you, if you leave me the freedom to choose, then yes, of course, that's your right. Absolutely! I am not arguing against your opinions or your ideology. I just don't want to do it. I think you're right about your thoughts, but I don't understand why you're trying to force me to think like you are. This is really weird.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U170	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U171	Thank you. Good waitress! The Chancellor of Justice turned to you on the issue of unequal treatment of pensioners and beneficiaries of disability benefits and asked for this to be resolved. You also sent a request to the Social Affairs Committee, which you can read from the text, that you actually consider the reform of working capacity to be the cause of this situation. I don't think so. Workability reform was launched long before you changed the payment system at the end of last year. You did it in a hurry, and you must have missed that problem. And my question now is this: will this possible solution, which you are trying to find in the Committee on Monetary Affairs to address the Chancellor of Justice, also have an impact on the state budget for next year, and if so, what will it have?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U172	Thank you. I wouldn't speculate here. We had people from the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance and the Chancellor of Justice to discuss this issue. Let me start by reminding you of the text of this letter. At first, the Chancellor of Justice does not see the Constitution's cripplement. The Chancellor of Justice will ask if we can see it. This is more of a problem for the Committee on Social Affairs, not so much a problem for the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You will have to say in your reply whether you see any problem with this issue, and then we will be able to give the Chancellor of Justice a reply by 27 November and, if necessary, amend the draft law amending the Social Tax Act and the Income Tax Act 499.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U173	Thank you. Mr Stalnukhin, you have made an interesting use of your position here today: on the one hand, you are saying that you are not shaping politics, on the other hand, you are saying everything that comes to mind. You answer very different questions from your personal position and oppose partyly. At the same time, the questioners have actually been polite. We would have been able to hold a substantive debate that cannot be held with the Minister at this reading. What exactly do you think the point of your position is if you do not deduce politics and debate with rather noble answers? These are not qualified answers; they are rather full of a personal position. What do you think the role of Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs would be?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U174	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U175	Thank you. One minute later, I wouldn't say that stamping a rubber stamp directly at my address is a polite thing. In these debates in this hall, I'm, what do you say, chess call it a tsutsvang. There are only a few possible moves, you don't have much choice. And then it is that if you do not answer the questions, because they do not concern at all the debate that took place in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you will be given a stamp that you do not want to communicate, you are arrogant, and so on. Or maybe you're trying to answer questions and the conversation gets super-free: wide, high, no matter where. It's either one way or the other. In any case, I've been trying to make it possible. Now, the subject we are dealing with, Jürgen, you and I are probably heading 180 degrees in a different direction. We are all equal in this Chamber, but one person who has been chosen from among the equals must, on the one hand, by law, check the staf work of one committee or another, monitor the process in order to ensure that there is a guarantee of timely processing and that everyone complies with the law. That's why we pick these people out. No one controls such a thing with one committee or another that there are officers in the Committee on Defence as many as the Colonels, that the Committee on Rural Affairs is certainly a farmer with 30 years of experience, that someone in the Committee on Education is a teacher of some 50 years of age, etc. There are other options here, this job needs to be organized. There are some members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs in this Chamber, not all of them, but some of them. Can you tell the hall how I've forced my opinion on someone? Have I pulled more blankets on myself than you have? Have I ever misjudged any mythical chairmanship options? No, it's not. I've been running very complicated collectives for years. I believe in people! I know that everyone needs to be heard and at least to give them the opportunity to put forward their arguments. And when there is a need to make a decision, I am in favour of consensus. This may sound strange, but over the last few years, I worked in a committee where all the decisions were taken by consensus, and the Commission worked quite well. And there may be a reason why you and I, Jürgen, don't understand each other. You believe you're the smartest. I have said many times that you are the smartest in our Committee on Monetary Affairs. But everyone has the right to have an opinion, and we listen to anyone who wants to publish it. My opinion does not have to be decisive, and it is not, and I am not going to make it that way. So these are just different world views. A person can be rehabilitated until he's four years old. After that, it's completely impossible, so in our case, it's pretty hopeless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U176	Please, Terje Trei!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U177	Thank you! I will try to ask you very specifically, then there will also be a specific answer. What is the tax-free rate next year for the gross wage of 1300 euros per month? The second question: is the state budget intended to compensate for DigiTee's money wasted next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U178	Sorry, what do you want to compensate for?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U179	Please repeat!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U180	Well, I probably don't read enough newspapers or go to the social network. In fact, I do not go there at all, so the other half of the question is absolutely incomprehensible to me. As far as the first one's concerned... What was that? Uh, $1,300. I'm gonna give myself a chance to answer you a little later.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U181	The money from Dig Tee was blown to the wind. This happened in the hands of a minister, and compensation must be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U182	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U183	Thank you, good waitress. Estonia has set an example in its balanced budget and conservative fiscal policy in Europe and globally. This example has not been an end in itself for us; rather, we have done so in good times to prepare for difficult times and to survive difficult times. Now, inevitably, after a while, our economic situation will get worse, the European Union's Structural Funds will run out of resources. If we have spent our reserves and we are full of debt, how will the government come out of this situation if we are to break the structural balance principle so brutally now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U184	Yeah, it's a principle to you. I've talked about our point of view several times. We are 100% in compliance with the current state budget law and the current forecast says that there will be a balance again in the coming years. So it's also a matter of faith.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U185	Kalle Laane.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U186	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! I very much liked the answer to one question where you drew attention to the low salaries of the servants of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. I absolutely agree with that. In order for them to be able to provide the best service, these salaries should certainly be increased. Currently, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which you once belonged to, there is a draft such as the draft law on the salaries of KRAPS, or senior civil servants. And there is a very good proposal to raise the salaries of people in one area: we are talking about prosecutors. The most positive thing about this is that next year the chief prosecutor's income will be higher than, for example, the Chairman of the Riigikogu. But aren't such premature, jumpy decisions going to get the whole pay system completely out of place?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U187	Thank you. I would like to remind you that we are now discussing the budget for next year, not the national wage system.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U188	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U189	Thank you. I have to go back to the same subject I was talking about earlier. The Chancellor of Justice does not address the Riigikogu for nothing. The representative of the Chancellor of Justice at the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee made it quite clear and unambiguous that the unequal treatment of pensioners and beneficiaries of disability benefits should be stopped. Therefore, I believe that you have discussed this subject a little further, at least you should have. If we now have to adopt this state budget and it turns out that in the event of a solution, such as the introduction of a tax exemption for pensioners, there will be an additional cost for the state, what possible solutions do you see in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U190	Thank you. You have now asked a question that you should have put to the Minister of Finance at first reading. This is not our thing right now. But I will take this opportunity to respond to my colleague Terje Tre, who has left the room. I couldn't solve this equation by answering a question without a pencil. I may be wrong, of course, but I had a year's tax-free income of EUR 5250. So please pass it on to him and see if I got the right result.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U191	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U192	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee, waitress! My question concerns the use of the reserves of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund to cover current expenditure. As we know, important institutions have drawn attention to this problem, both the Chancellor of Justice and the National Audit Office, but I would like to hear your position. We have an unemployment insurance rate of 2.4% and an annual increase in the unemployment fund's reserve of 25 to 30 million euros, now reaching 680 million euros. Of course, it's a very large amount of money. And there's also the health fund's reserve. Do you consider it reasonable to make a budget in such a way that we knowingly violate the law and use reserves in an unacceptable way to cover running costs? What is your assessment or opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U193	Thank you for your question. I don't want to make an assessment of issues where I'm really incompetent. And on this issue, I am. I don't understand anything about cinema, I don't know what some fortunetellers or others are up to. As far as this question is concerned, you happen to know it, and I don't happen to know it. But I wouldn't judge you in any way. We have the National Audit Office, we have the Chancellor of Justice, and in worse cases we have other institutions. Anyway, I'm not here on the remote to make an assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U194	Kalle Laane.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U195	Thank you. Good Mikhail! I cannot agree with you that my previous question had nothing to do with the state budget. It certainly has to do with the state budget, as the costs of the state budget are also increasing as a result of these decisions. But that's not the most important thing. The question was, yes, indeed, whether this system would be confused. But I'm going to ask you very specifically. What will be the public wage fund in the state budget for next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U196	This is where I'm going to have to do some calculations again. If there are any questions, I'll tell you soon. You don't think there's ever gonna be a person on the remote who I don't have this package available right now, remembers all the figures in the bill. So why do you ask these things? You realize it's impossible to know all this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U197	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U198	Thank you. As we know, the Estonian local governments have not approved the state budget for years because the local governments' tax base has not been restored and many promises have not been fulfilled, and tasks have been constantly added without financial cover. And this year, the situation is exactly the same. We have a new government that promised to solve all these problems, but we still see nothing but beautiful phrases. There's no real improvement. How do you rate another one of those naked promises?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U199	Thank you. Henn, you understand that in 2017, we will live according to the budget that was adopted in December 2016. It is not possible to turn around at once when it comes to the economy. This was clearly stated that the income base of local governments will increase from 2018. Resources have also been allocated for this purpose. This is what we are now amending, by the way, the Income Tax Act in order to increase this percentage. It comes, only it doesn't happen that you're waving a magic wand, and it's all right that all the problems I've been talking about with pain are gone. Having worked for many years in the local government, I will never forget what a shock it was for us in 2009 and the years that followed. I've been talking about it here and in my county and in my town. It doesn't happen in an instant. There is quite a lot of legislative changes to this, and there is a certain amount of work to be done. And that's what we're doing right now, it's in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U200	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U201	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I fully share your joy that a large number of Estonians claim to have a better life, especially in your region, in your home town in Narva. But I certainly cannot agree with your argument that raising the doctoral student allowance to EUR 660 instead of the EUR 840 offered is enough to continue doctoral studies at a very high level, to go on to research or to enter higher-level entrepreneurship. How do you estimate that there is enough of the current EUR 660?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U202	I didn't say anything like that. I can't imagine how one doctoral student can live with 660 euros. I also don't understand how people who get the minimum wage live. That's even worse. We need to improve this situation, but it will take some time. Yeah, we have to deal with it, but we can't prefer any group to another group. Doctoral students are quite a number of people, if I'm not mistaken, about 2350 people. And 660 is still better than the amount they've been paid this year. We remember this and we understand that this is a fundamental, principled question for you. If God will, we will come back to this matter several more years. But it won't happen at once. It just doesn't happen, there's no such thing as miracles.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U203	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U204	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You more or less ended your performance by admitting that you have no idea how people will survive with a minimum wage. I will give you an example from the State Budget Act. The State Budget Act also sets an hourly fee for working with a support person, which is paid by the unemployment fund, i.e. the state structure. And the hourly rate paid by the unemployment fund is 2.78 euros. If we put it in the language of normal hours, that is about 450 euros, or the minimum wage. Of course, I am pleased that the salaries of educators, the salaries of museum staff and social welfare staff are rising, but we are still sending out such messages that this is not the case with everyone. Have you discussed how the state can allow it to pay a minimum wage for workers in a narrow area?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U205	Thank you. Yeah, it's hard to say, it's hard to know. But I would say that all this policy is originally a matter of coalition negotiations. It sets out the points that will be agreed upon. Later, if certain directions are already known, then, for example, the same wage rate, for an hourly fee, must be held by the Minister of Foreign Affairs if he has the slightest opportunity to do so under the Coalition Agreement. I don't see any other way. You can't just grab on to one problem or another. Yeah, I'd like everyone to raise their wages two to three times at a time. But that's the hard choice to make. Such choices must be made by all in their work: teachers, doctors, random people. Everyone who works makes choices because the resource is not infinite. I understand your concern. I agree it's embarrassing to have a salary like this, but give me some time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U206	Honourable waitress! No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations for everyone. First up, Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U207	Honourable President! I'm asking for more time right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U208	Please, eight minutes in total!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U209	Respectable members of the Riigikogu! In this debate today on the state budget for the coming year, there will inevitably be a certain déjà vu feeling: it has all been, like, many times. This has been said by the opposition in this Chamber at first reading of the budget, as well as by Eesti Pank, the Budget Council, the National Audit Office, many experts and analysts, now the Council of Europe, so that it is wise to draw up at least a balanced budget, if not a surplus. It would be wise to gather reserves for worse times. Reference has been made to the government's over-optimism in forecasting some revenue. Not only experts and entrepreneurs, but also very many people in Estonia, can see bypasses in excise policy. Since the difficult times are inevitable, the National Audit Office indicated this very clearly last week. It's been a lot of times, but the government is completely deaf and mute. In fact, I think it would be accurate to say that it was deaf and mute until yesterday, when the Minister of Finance surprised us and ventured to suggest cautiously that perhaps we should consider stopping the rise in excise duty in February. But, of course, as our people well know, if anyone wants to get out of the hellhouse in Estonia, there will be those who pull him back. The leaders of the left parties quickly settled the Minister of Finance yesterday and it became clear which political parties actually currently run the monetary policy of the Estonian state. Last week there was an excellent article in the business paper, where economic analyst Peter Tammistu asked wittyly how the National Audit Office had to keep what was ahead of us. Does he have to draw a comic book or film a series of riots so the government can finally understand? The Auditor General rang a loud alarm here last week, but the government is asleep and is not listening. It is clear that, if European Union subsidies are to shrink, it is absolutely impossible to compensate for this withdrawal from the country's tax revenues, and everyone knows why Therefore, there is only one way: to be sustainable and reasonable. Who was watching the "Actual Camera" last night, he probably heard Professor Raul Eamets' comments. The Chairman of the Board said that we are still looking at spending first, looking at spending first. The faction of the Free Party proposed that wages and economic expenditure should not increase by 2.5%. Now we've been very scolded. Some time ago, we heard the urging from this remote control that, if only look at good Riigikogu advisers and other officials, don't they deserve a raise? Of course they do. Many of them certainly deserve to be very and embarrassed that this increase has not been for a very long time. But pay can also be raised in such a way as to take a critical look at the functioning of our entire institution. I recall that, less than a year ago, we made two here to the Commission. Let us be honest, for nothing else than to have more seats as chairmen and vice-chairmen of the Commission, those places with a slightly higher salary. That's all there was to it. There was an increase in costs, a lot of noise, but there's no gain from it. The current coalition would need some Mart Laar-type politicians to run the ministry and say, you know, a tenth can be saved. But it's obviously too much of partybroilers growing up in the incubator to expect something like that. If you don't understand it, the government could hire a "crocodile" from the private sector to help itself, I mean professional trimmers who could show savings. There are several things in the budget for the coming year that may not be made or postponed. Let the state not now give so much work to the builders; they already have a job in the private sector. This could be done if the private sector is doing badly. I understand that many mayors would like to build these rental homes with the state badly, but this does not necessarily have to be done right now. Similarly, the introduction of public transport is free of charge. There is already a lot of confusion in the counties, because, after the administrative reform, some city borders are running somewhere between swamps and bogs. It is very likely that, from 1 June, public transport cannot actually be launched free of charge. And there is also the question of whether this is really the best measure to help people work. Perhaps we should take a critical look at the activities of the unemployment fund, even at the moment, and this monster is, in my opinion, still very ineffective. However, colleagues still show savings in their speeches, and there have also been plenty of them in the amendments. The objective is clear: to balance the budget. And, of course, it would actually be more right and honest if this work was not to be done by the opposition here, but the government itself would take time off and come to us again with a much-adjusted option. As we heard an hour ago from the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs: everything is possible. Anything's possible. All right, let's do it! But in order to give the coalition enough time, we could interrupt the second reading today, and the Free Party Group will also propose this. Finally, one more thing. Having heard the statements of the leaders of the Left Party at the Forum yesterday, having heard the responses of the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs today, I still feel that we are quite hopeless to understand each other. It's a question of the weather. And as early as 1976, Astrid Lindgren, whose 110th anniversary was celebrated yesterday, described the weather. I accidentally read a quote yesterday from Jens Andersen's book Astrid Lindgren, which just appeared in Estonian. A day like life': 'If it is true that politics is an art to prevent people from saying a word about matters that affect them themselves, then no one knows this art better than the Social Democrats and their government. They decide for us where and how we have to live, what we have to eat, how our children have to be raised, what we have to think and think, everything! " This article was published in Expressen three weeks before the elections in 1976 by an active supporter of the social democrats, Lindgren. And as a result, the Social Democrats who led Sweden for 40 years earlier received so many fewer votes that a right-wing government was formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U210	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Heljo Pikhof, did indeed register as the second speaker. During the negotiations, I found out that the fact that his name disappeared in the meantime was a technical problem. I believe you agree if I give the floor to Heljo Pikhof now. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U211	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I came here to speak to address the areas of the state budget that have received unearned little attention in the debates so far. First of all, I am talking about education, which should be a topic close to our hearts for all of us, and whose funding will certainly improve not enough, but will improve. Only educated Estonia has a bright future. In an era of rapid technological change, the key to our economic development lies in the hands of an educated people who are doing smart, high value-added work. For this reason, the government association has taken one of the main strands of its efforts to contribute to education and education. Since good education and good school start with motivated and good teachers, teachers must be paid a decent salary. I dare say that the budget is taking a strong step towards a more educated Estonia. I am based here on the data of the Ministry of Education and Research, on which the minimum wage for teachers will rise by 100 euros in January, rising to 1150 euros per month. If the minimum remuneration and potential bonuses are taken together, the average wage of teachers will rise from January to at least EUR 1380 per month. The trend to raise teachers' average wage to 120% of the average wage in Estonia is undoubtedly a very ambitious goal, but we are moving in the right direction. Let it be said that over 246 million euros have been planned for teachers' pay in the next four years. It is certainly worth highlighting the fact that, thanks to the fact that the state has given more support to municipalities from its budget, kindergarten teachers will also be paid in the new year. The minimum wage of a teacher in kindergarten reaches 85% of the minimum wage of a school teacher in general next year and 90% in the next year. A master's degree in kindergarten teacher's minimum wage will then be equal to that of a schoolteacher. Thanks to the support of the state, there are also major gaps that have been in the wages of our kindergarteners for many years. In different municipalities, the salaries of kindergarten teachers have differed more than twice. In September this year, all Estonian municipalities paid at least 840 euros a month to their kindergarten teachers. The good news is that the state will support municipalities in hiring support specialists in schools and providing better services. Starting next year, 22 million more will be provided to municipalities and private general education school managers, including 6 million euros to ensure the availability of support specialist services. As has already been said, the appreciation of wage increases and teachers must continue vigorously in the coming years. Only in this way will we be able to solve the numerous problems facing the Estonian education system and ensure that the quality of education provided in our schools does not suffer, but increases. We are faced with challenges relating to the ageing of the faculty, the shortage of male teachers and support specialists. The positive side of the budget will undoubtedly also include funding for recreational education and raising the cost of school lunch. Honourable ambassadors! I've given dozens of children's speeches in this hall. Today, it is a cause for joy that, in addition to supporting children and families with children, the country has also taken older people into greater focus than before. From the summer onwards, the Health Insurance Fund supports dental care for pensioners, as well as pregnant mothers and mothers with a child below the age of 85 euros a year. The rise is impressive because in the past, pensioners' dental care was reimbursed only EUR 19 per year. The rules for the reimbursement of dental prostheses remain. Since October, the state pays the allowance for a single-living pensioner. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U212	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U213	Self-living old-age pensioners receive an annual allowance of EUR 115. In January, there will be a major change for the benefit of elderly patients and chronically ill. The supplementary reimbursement system makes prescription medicines cheaper for almost 100,000 people. The State will compensate 50% of the cost of pharmaceuticals in the range of €100 to €300 as of 2018. And if the annual cost is more than EUR 300, the medicines will be reimbursed at 90%. As we all know, on 1 April, there will be an increase in pensions: the average old-age pension is projected to rise by 6.3%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U214	Please, Kersti Sarapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U215	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have now talked quite thoroughly, both in this Chamber and outside, about what the good budget for next year will actually bring, for example, the additional funding for health care, the increase in incomes for people earning low and medium wages, the very necessary agricultural subsidies and the increase in the income base of local governments. These are just a few of the examples that are actually brought about by the largest budget in the history of the country. On the other hand, the focus of all this is on what one or the other expert says about the 0.25% deficit. The opposition is trying to give the impression that decision-makers are not listening to experts who seem to be very opposed to the current budget. I would therefore like to point out a new aspect and talk about Fitch's assessment of Estonia's sovereign rating of an international rating agency a few days ago. In particular, Fitch confirmed that Estonia's long-term sovereign rating is still at A+ level and raised the rating outlook to a stable positive outlook. According to the agency, Estonia has returned to a higher rate of economic growth, which shows the country's long-term capacity. If, after the financial crisis, Estonia's economic growth was rather below its potential, the situation has now improved. According to the Agency, this is primarily due to strong fiscal policies in the country, favourable developments in the external environment and growth in domestic consumption and investment. The Agency expects growth in Estonia by 4% this year and 3% in 2018 and 2019. Inflation is expected to fall in the next two years and is supported by the government's objective of improving the budgetary balance by 2020. According to Fitch, the budget is already close to balance. It is also important to point out from the same assessment that we currently have the lowest public debt in countries with the same rating and are likely to decrease further. If, until now, since 2011, our rating outlook was considered stable, the Agency has now assessed it as positive, indicating the possibility of raising the rating in the future. I also stress that we are still monitoring the balance of the government budget, but more flexiblely from now on, as a longer-term average. The OECD's assessment has been unambiguous: a small deficit in the state budget up to 2020 will not jeopardise the economy's performance. On the contrary, in order to achieve greater, more inclusive and greener growth, the organisation has recommended considering allowing a small deficit in the longer term for government budget rules. Our sovereign debt is the lowest among OECD countries and will fall in the medium term. Does anyone want to say in this Chamber today that these are experts who know nothing about their area, that their opinion is wrong, because it does not match the vision of the opposition? Focus has gone to what will happen in years. Some experts say that Estonia's current economic policy is very correct, others are skeptical. We remember clearly the previous economic crisis and that there were also very different opinions, not to mention that the government led by the Reform Party was making a budget on the edge of the economic crisis, which had to be cut by several successive negative budgets. At that time, however, the opposition did not have the firm knowledge that they are criticising the state budget. The question now is whether people can get to the doctor more quickly, whether injustice can be corrected and whether everyone's circumstances will improve. And here the answer is very clear: yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U216	I would like to ask Hanno Pevkur to continue the debate on the draft provisions. Getting ready for Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U217	There's no Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U218	That's why I'm offering you the word.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U219	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You're too late, Sven! There is a serious problem with this budget and its second reading. It was hoped that between the first and second readings, the government coalition would come to its senses and listen to what was said. Mr Ammas has already mentioned here the Fiscal Council and other experts who say that living beyond power and being in structural deficit is certainly not the path we need now. I'm sure Sven will come to the remote now and tell you how the structural budget doesn't matter at all. But, Sven, I remind you of your own sentence from 2014 that every decimal in the state budget means spending too much and looking for cover, either in the form of the activation of state reserves or in the form of additional borrowing. Those were your own words a few years ago, and those words can certainly be found again. Perhaps the concern is that when we talk about sustainable country-keeping, only a country that does not survive its power and spends as much as it has taxpayers' money can be sustainable. And neither does public money come from anywhere but taxpayers' pockets. If you ask me if there's anything good in this budget, I'm sure there is. There are certainly many good things in this budget and, of course, every line means that someone gets something positive from this budget. This budget has one more positive thing -- it is that there are really no things in it. The fact that the government understood that car tax, mortgage tax or even sweeter is not the way to move is positive, but I do not know how long this positivity will last. Perhaps we will already see next year that the government will come back to these issues, because it is simply not the fixed costs that have been incurred in the state budget, on the other hand, to oppose revenue. We are very likely to see that the excise duty has been overestimated and that we are facing a downfall there. What we see is that the costs, which have also been put on the health insurance fund, have actually been bluffed. Even if the pensioner pays supplementary health insurance, the health insurance fund receives funds, the health insurance fund has been given additional responsibilities. This does not mean that there will be an additional EUR 34 million, as the government has said. If there is also a fundamental decision to reduce defence investments by 10 million, there are, in fact, many decisions that I do not want to see in this budget and which should not be in this budget. Between first and second readings, four fundamental amendments were tabled by the Reform Party Group. These amendments were aimed at only one objective, i.e. to ensure that the budget was in structural balance. This would require more than EUR 60 million, and there was EUR 65 million in our amendments. What were they all about? First of all, reduce the government reserve by 4 million, which is intended primarily to provide the coalition ambassadors with roofing money. It is not appropriate to spend 4 million on one project or another in a situation where the country is going beyond its own strength. Our proposal was also to thinn up the public sector for 15 million dollars. We know that one of the most structural problems of the Estonian economy is the problem of the labour force. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U220	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U221	In a situation where a country needs to keep pace with the general development of the economy, it would not be unfair if the state saved 15 million of its economic and human resources costs. We also proposed to reduce unreasonable investments for 33 million. We know that there are unreasonable investments in this budget, more than that. You can always argue whether an investment is unreasonable or not. If the State is going to regulate or disrupt the rental market and develop housing, it is certainly not a sensible investment. But these unreasonable investments can still be viewed in a complex way by the state. Once again, the proposal to reduce investment at all is aimed at preventing or delaying certain investments when money is scarce. Our proposal was also to change the transport funds for 13 million. This concerns, in particular, free public transport. Of course, the tragic thing about this is that commercial lines have not been thought out when subsidising public transport routes. Moreover, the public has learned that trains are also part of public transport. Perhaps these proposals, a piece of four, could have been supported by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which would have resulted in at least a budget in structural balance before us. Then we could have discussed this budget much more seriously. Looking further at what is most difficult and critical for us in relation to this budget, in addition to the structural balance, it is, of course, that this budget actually breaks down a simple and transparent tax system from the point of view of an earlier decision. We have asked both the Prime Minister and the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs about the content and the spirit of these tax changes, and we have also requested specific answers, but they have not come. The fact that, for example, a working pensioner will be punished should not be the road to which the country is moving. In other words, there is something positive about this budget, especially what it does not have, and very much negative. The biggest negative impact or the negative point is, of course, that the country is living beyond its means. A nation of dignity and strength should not survive beyond its means. Consequently, our group has a proposal, like the Free Party Group, to interrupt the second reading of the budget, to give the government the opportunity to reconsider and only then come back here with the second reading of the budget. Then perhaps the budget could also be adopted at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U222	Sven Sester. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U223	My dear colleagues! Some morbid and melancholy talk came from Hanno Pevkur a few minutes ago. You're listening and wondering if we're going to deal with the same bill or some other bill. Guys, let's actually look at this budget! This budget bears four values: firstly, economic growth and the steps that are being taken to achieve economic growth; secondly, Estonia's population and the steps that are being taken to increase Estonia's population; thirdly, at first reading, I stressed that security, security, security, and we are also stopping today on this topic These are the values that were agreed on a year ago when a new coalition was collapsed, and the changes and activities associated with them are also seen in the budgetary process, in the 2018 budget itself. Let's get to the bottom of this. I think that this coalition and this budget are mainly characterised by reforms that have been stuck over the years: tax reform, administrative reform, health reform, etc. These different topics have finally come out from behind some kind of barrier. Let's go even deeper, more lonely in general. Let's talk about tax reform. I think that one of the cornerstones of next year's budget, let us be honest, in fact, could also say that this is one of the cornerstones of this whole coalition, one of the most expensive measures, if not the most expensive one. This is a new measure with a cost in the state budget of over 150 million: minus half for the state budget, plus half for the people. More than EUR 150 million will be available to people with lower and medium pay next year. For those with a salary of EUR 500, 600, 800 or 1200, tax-free income of EUR 500 is guaranteed. I have participated in debates quite a number of times this year, and there are various reasons why I should not. Since a person loses touch with his or her country, if he or she does not pay the tax, forgive me, I do not know whether this link should be such, until the question of whether this measure is properly targeted. It's well-targeted, isn't it? The king squeezes the most for those with a monthly salary of 500, 600 or 800 euros. Yes, it is! And I think it is a strong word that this reform will really take place in full from 1 January next year. In the future, people who receive such a salary will benefit from 64 euros per month, or more than 700 euros per year. The second issue I want to talk about is the administrative reform. Yes, this is not the kind of reform that has been carried out in six months or in the last few months, it has been a longer-term process. But what I want to say is that this subject has been spoken for 10 to 15 years in a row, and it finally broke out from behind the barrier. Today, new councils have already been elected in the spirit of administrative reform. Next year, we will see that the new elected councils will receive accession prizes and continuous grants that have never existed before. I also want to talk about health reform. It's been said for a long time that the queues are long. All those in need of help, who want more or less help, have looked at the top of the country, but it has not been possible for the country to fulfil all its wishes. With this reform of health care, too, it is far from being possible for the country to meet all its wishes. But I can tell you one thing: the health reform will create a situation where more money will be brought into the system. Yes, some of the tasks are transferred from the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Health Insurance Fund, but money is also given together with the tasks. But the system also comes in completely fresh money, which has never been before, and this, I think, is the great agreement of this coalition that they have planned this money for the 2018 budget. I'm gonna stop at education for a second. At first reading, I talked about it too. IRL has always said that education is one of its highest priorities. I am pleased that IRL's former election promise, free higher education, has been put into practice and has been working for years. If we look at what is going to be in the coming years, including the amount of money to be spent on education in 2018, both for the increase in teachers' salaries and for other measures, I do not think we need to be ashamed in this Chamber. The money allocated next year to teachers' pay increases will provide an opportunity to add EUR 100 to the minimum wage for teachers, which will raise it to EUR 1150. And taking into account the additional amount of money that will be provided for the differentiated increase in teachers' pay, the average teacher's salary will reach EUR 1380. I'm still coming back to security. At first reading, I was also talking about security. If we look at next year's budget for 2018, this amount will never be security-oriented in the state budget. And that's not my guess, it's in the state budget. The figure of EUR 528 million is the amount that will be included in next year's budget. I would also like to say that once, years ago, when Mart Laar was the Minister of Defence, it was agreed that defence costs should be 2% of GDP, and regardless of who has subsequently been in the coalition, this agreement has been respected. And I think it's very good. The next agreement was that the cost of the allies should be slightly above 2% in order not to reduce our independent defence capabilities when we channel money to the presence of the allies' units. That agreement has also been held. Now we have a third agreement: defence costs of 2%, allies costs of just over 2%, plus a defence investment programme of at least 60 million over the next three years. I would like to hope that we will see the future after three years at least of this level of investment in the defence industry. I will finish my speech on some of the points that the Reform Party in the opposition has spoken about. Government debt. I also said that at first reading, but I will repeat it here: the debt burden on the government is falling. It will fall as soon as next year and will fall in the years after that. This year the government's debt burden will be 9%, next year 8.6%. There has been a great deal of talk about the tax burden. Friends, the tax burden doesn't go up. The tax burden remains the same and the tax burden on labour even falls. So don't listen to those stories! Look at the numbers, actually! I recommend supporting this budget. This budget is good and takes Estonia forward; it is a human budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U224	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U225	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, as little or as much of you as you are here! I hope there's another one behind the screens in the office. I saw that there was already a small discussion between the opposition and the coalition. For my part, what I'm saying is, you know, I felt like I was at some election meeting. There were great pep talks, including from the previous speaker, in such a positive mood that this year is better than last year, because last year was zero. Well, this year is better than last year, because last year was zero. But, you see, my friends, I am also addressing you with this definition, all these things that are now listed here as government major job-winners are, to a large extent, inevitable. Wage increases, highlighted as something unprecedented, are actually inevitable. Over time, our wage levels are so much behind people's needs, demands, inflation and the surrounding economic environment that it was inevitable to raise wages. And because the money has been inflamed, the money numbers are also higher, so they can also be manipulated slightly towards raising wages. Plus, the coalition will tell us their representatives through the time of the huge economic boom. It's a long way from Boom, of course. The economy is indeed in a good position now, it would be wrong to deny it, but it is not a service of the current government. It's not a favor from the previous government either. It's a favor to change international economics. However, if optimistic forecasts and budgets are made in such a situation, it is somewhat frivolous to this that colleagues from the opposition, the Reform Party, have repeatedly pointed out here. In Sweden, a real estate bubble is already threatening to explode, and this is about to give us a blast. The printing of money cannot continue indefinitely, at some point the interest rates will be tightened and immediately the interest rates will change. The situation in the macro economy is such that we cannot predict turbulence. And these turbulence times will immediately give Estonia a small open economy the shock waves that could upset the current budget of this beautiful house of cards. This is what the opposition is currently warning the coalition about. This is not malicious throwing sticks into the spokes of the spokes of evil, there are certain threats to which we draw attention. There was also talk of security and it was stressed that it was supposed to be one of the pillars. Let me put it this way: you know, let's not manipulate numbers here, that we have the biggest defence budget of all time. After all, it is quite clear to us that the largest state budget of all time is going to have a pro rata increase in the defence budget. Let's ask what we're gonna get for this money. Let us ask whether this money is simply wasted on many occasions, not spent in an unreasonable way. I say I have some doubts, i.e. money could be spent more rationally. If we are talking about the 10 million that were not spent or could not find a way to buy the ammunition that we really need, then this money should have been creatively transferred to another line, because, as Mr Laaneots said, our second infantry team is in an orphan's position. They basically only have half the fighting power that's on our first infantry team. This is undoubtedly not a satisfactory situation, but this situation could be improved with money. We have enough gaps in security, defence capabilities. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U226	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U227	Now taxes. I remember that once was the forerunner of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union, I think the slogan of one of the election campaigns of the Pro Patria Union 'No Playing With Taxes! '. Now we see that taxes are being played, and how else, and they're always throwing it on our noses here. As soon as I hear with one ear that the tax-free minimum will rise to EUR 500 per month, 'free public transport', 'free public transport' will start groaning in my second ear. For years, we have heard how the biggest, the most creative and captivating innovation in the world is free public transport in the city of Tallinn. I have not practically used it, I am still driving and I am banging on the ground to the Tallinn City Government, which unfortunately continues to lead the Centre Party, because drivers are being bullied. Bullying drivers actually means polluting the environment. I'm standing on one of the lanes, I'm driving, I'm driving, I'm driving, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going, I'm going. Instead, a decent three-track road could be built so that people can travel from the outskirts of Tallinn to where they need to go in ten minutes. Then they would not waste fuel, their time, their nerves, their nerves, or the environment. It's backwards thinking now. Now these crazy greens are in, and it's getting worse. But this is Tallinn. Let's talk about taxes. This 500 euros of tax-free income is taken back as other taxes provided with a spoon. After all, all the excise duties that rise and all the money that flows out of Estonia have been taken away from our people. And talking about some pinch of money left in people's hands is just ridiculous. This is ridiculous, don't mock people! You will be able to see how much chaos breaks when people start filling in tax returns and there is confusion about whether the pensioner has or does not have anything tax-free. I mean a working pensioner. And in addition, all those family joint declarations that have been reset. This is the stupid, short-sighted and tax-playing policy that the current government coalition is implementing. Believe me, it's a big mess. At the end of the day, people discover that they have not won anything, rather they have lost something. So all the beautiful propaganda we've heard here at the mouth of coalition representatives must be taken with a coefficient. I say that this budget does not deal with the end of the waste, one example of which is, by the way, the current pay race of local governments. Look at all the parish elders and council leaders who raise themselves incredibly high. Another example of waste is that we actually spend a lot of money on things that should not be spent. At the same time, we arrange all kinds of Christmas tunnels and collections for cancer patients. So here's the shakes. We do not support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U228	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U229	Mr President! Honourable Riigikogu! I listened to Mr. Stalnukhin here for a long time, and then Heljo Pikhof spoke. I also listened to Erki Savisaar and Kalvi on the Hard Forum last night. I had to think about how we should call social democracy of this type, which rigidly ignores all macroeconomic issues, questions of budgetary balance, and tries to talk at every opportunity about what we are giving you, what we are giving to different electoral groups, such as this EUR 500 tax exemption. And everyone, everyone, everyone! If I said it was accompaniment of social democracy, the aunts would probably upset me. And if I said "patronizing," it would probably upset the uncles. I'm saying it's customeristic. This is a slightly more strange word, but it points quite precisely to the fact that they want to draw out the dependence of society on what politicians propose with the state budget and just like they do. In fact, people have earned it all by themselves, and it is up to politicians to lead the process as far as possible, but it has not been managed. I would still have expected the presentation by the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs to prove what we know about macroeconomics. This knowledge has been brought before us even after the first reading. So I'm gonna go over these things briefly. On 6 November, the Governor of Eesti Pank was here before us, who has fulfilled his obligation under the law and has tried to advise both the previous and the current Minister of Finance, but unfortunately without results. They just don't listen to him, they're making a deficit budget again. And I would like to point out that there must also be criticism of the amendment that we made to the State Budget Act in spring, which allows structurally deficit budgets. All of this should have been linked to economic indicators. In a growing phase like this, this should not be the case for us. Two days later we were visited by the Auditor General, who pointed to the assessment in the Ministry of Finance's own forecast that this increase, which is entirely dependent on the external environment, could be very short-lived. He also referred to the construction sector, as indeed Mr Hansson did. Both pointed to the strong contribution of the construction sector to economic growth, which may not be sustainable at all. The Auditor General also spoke about the reduction in EU subsidies from 2020 and this decrease is quite drastic. At the same time, ministries argue that they want to continue all these activities, which have so far been heavily dependent on European Union subsidies. Where's the money coming from? How will this happen in the future? There is no answer to that. Finally, Vice-President Dombrovskis quite clearly pointed out that this budget deficit, which we are talking about nationally, is, according to the European Commission, going to be significantly higher both this year and next year. He spoke of 1.1% and 1.4% of GDP, respectively. Now, about the excise issue. It is clear that if the excise duty is misestimated, the deficit is in fact even greater. All of this is to be welcomed, with which Minister of Finance Tõniste came out yesterday, but unfortunately I do not see any willingness here to regulate this matter. Today, the Prime Minister announced this whole increase in excise duty... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U230	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U231	... to take down in the coming year for a wandering thought. This is simply not sustainable and it would be best to return to the excise agreement that was once, at the time of Prime Minister Ansip. Yeah, I'm criticizing the Reform Party for breaking that deal in 2015 and letting the genie out of the bottle, but now it's gone a lot further. However, it would have been reasonable to agree between producers, healthists and politicians that the increase in excise duty is planned long in advance, so that there would not be an unexpected increase of 5% per year, probably a lot of mischief. One of the issues concerning the increase in salaries of senior civil servants was rejected in vain. They said it had nothing to do with this budget. Maybe it will come later, but it will also affect the overall picture of the economy and the pay race. I would remind you that it was not a very long time ago when, in fact, public sector wage increases went long ahead of the private sector and had bad consequences. The previous government, at least, said that, in proportion to the decline in the working age population, we must also talk about savings in public spending. From the amendments proposed by the Free Party, we have tried to balance the national budget within the amount of 61 million, both with the contraction of overheating-enhancing investments and with the withdrawal of public economic and wage costs. Here, it must probably be pointed out in particular that, in the case of the wages of rescuers, policemen, cultural workers and teachers, we foresee an exception. We do not think that their salaries should be hindered in any way. But I wouldn't go so easy on the fact that public expenditure simply increases, and that's all, there's room for cutting. And this 61 million deficit definitely needs to be balanced. I will return to this issue of excise duty for a moment. It is quite clear that excise duties, especially alcohol duty, do not arrive in a planned manner, and it is evident that the European Commission's assessment that this structural deficit actually proves to be greater. I think it is not in vain that we have an exceptional state budget reading process planned here. We have three readings: we should have more time to think about and respond to the situation. I don't see that will right now. The second reading must then be interrupted, rather than declared as a common sense of self - sufficient concern about receipts or all the other effects of the increase in excise duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U232	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U233	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, A responsible understanding of things is still that when there are better times in the economy, money is set aside so that when more economic times come, the distraction can be used. In the case of a country, we must take into account that the economy is developing cyclically and that the growth phase will sooner or later be followed by a declining phase. The budget balance rule agreed in the European Union, the euro area, also works in such a way that, during the economic growth phase, the country sets aside reserves in order to use these reserves later in the recession phase. The Estonian economy has entered the growth phase. This is demonstrated by all objective indicators. Growth is above the long-term sustainable growth rate. The employment rate is at the highest level in the last 20 years. The economies of our main export partners are on the way to growth. We're going to keep growing fast. And as I said, the Estonian economy has exceeded its level of ambition. Thus, the current economic cycle assumes that the state budget will at least be in structural balance and nominal surplus according to the growth phase. The budget we are dealing with is in both nominal and structural deficits. The European Commission's forecast came by a few months later than the forecast of the Ministry of Finance and, as a result, is already more precise. The Commission estimates that the deficit is 1.4% of GDP. To understand better what orders of magnitude we are talking about, it is 334 million euro. This deficit is an expression of how much we live beyond our means. So it can be said that we are over 330 million overpowering. Considering that the total budget is over 10 billion, it's not like it's a very large amount. But the fixed costs imposed by law have risen very high, and compared to the so-called free money that the government can redirect according to political priorities, this amount is quite high. The budget for the following year is also characterised by the fact that tax revenue has been aggregated into one year. This is done through a number of measures. First of all, excise revenue has been timed to maximise their revenue in the following year. The new regime for the taxation of banks will bring tax liability forward as the banks will pay tax on the profits they have earned. Companies will also be able to obtain a more favourable dividend rate in the future if they pay more dividends in the coming years, i.e. the payment of dividends will also be brought forward. But if tax revenues are aggregated in one year, there will be less revenue in the coming years. The figures show that next year's tax revenue growth will be 9%, but this year's growth will be 4%, and next year's growth will be 3.3%. This year, tax revenues have risen by 5.6% in nine months compared to last year. So the elections are approaching and the tax revenues are concentrated in one year together to give so-called gifts. Tax revenue has also been bluffed in several places, especially in the case of alcohol duty. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U234	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U235	If this year's alcohol excise is forecast to reach 237 million, then 341 million next year. And this is in a situation where, as early as this year, about 15 million fewer have been received in nine months than the forecast anticipated. This is all because the government's excise policy is completely stuck. Border trade is growing at a very high rate. The Minister of Finance has understood the seriousness of the situation, but he cannot do anything more in the government than say that a minimum could be considered, the exclusion of excise increases on 1 February next year. The Minister of Finance has basically veto rights in the government on this issue, but on his proposal today, the Prime Minister said derogatoryly that this is a common sense. As it turned out in previous discussions, the coalition has no intention of doing anything. It is just a review of how the excise revenue projected into the Estonian budget will be transferred to the Latvian budget. If the Estonian consumer buys a product with a Latvian tax mark, the money will still be paid into the Latvian budget for the tax mark. We can see that SuperAlko stores are expanding. And it's not just border trade problems, they've already gone into business. South-Estonia's bars buy cheap Latvian vodka by boxes, after which a bottle of Estonian vodka with a tax mark will be bought, rediscovered and then sold at a bar price. There is no control by the tax authority. I don't know what to do. Perhaps to restore the excise inspector system, as was the case in the mid-1990s? That's absurd. All this overliving and running tax policy is justified by an investment programme. But we can see that city hall and defence costs have already been expelled from this investment programme, that there are problems with broadband investment. So when we talk about the government investment programme, we see investments, which are the same SuperAlko stores in Latvia, Valka and Ainaži. To sum up, I would like to say that there is no way to support this excess budget, the budget spent on reserves previously collected, and the budget with tax revenues bluffed up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U236	Igor Gräzin is welcome to the speaker's chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U237	Dear Vice-Chairman, Colleagues! I'll ask for eight minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U238	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U239	I am afraid that much of the effort of the previous speaker, my good friend, went to waste because we saw here Mr Stalnukhin and Mr Sester's performances that the economic arguments did not work. I mean, if you take the facts and numbers, they won't be heard, you can also repeat them ten times. I'll try the other side. The book I have with me is not about political economy, but about Scripture, the Bible. I'm gonna open him up, Genesis, chapter 41, and I'm gonna start looking at what we have here. It's about Joseph. Joseph is a very important man. He is of the tribes of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Jacob begins with the tribes of Israel. Joseph has a very difficult life, has all sorts of things happening to him, and God speaks to him very much. But one of the pits in his life is that he is imprisoned with Pharaoh of Egypt. The Pharaoh of Egypt is having a very terrible dream one night. He sees seven fine horses coming out of the mud of the Nile, and after that, seven more hungry horses, and these seven starving horses eat these whole horses. At that, Pharaoh wakes up because it's so horrible. He asks all his fortune tellers what it means, but no one can explain anything. At one point, he will have a slave, Joseph, brought to him. And Joseph will explain. He says that these seven powerful horses are the good years of Egypt and seven starving horses are the years of Egypt's hunger. This is one of the few places where the God of the Prophets and Abraham speak more or less directly to man, not in parable but in direct speech. Theologians say that these are God's really meant words. What, then, does Joseph say to Pharaoh? 'And let all of them gather in the food of the good years to come, and store grain in the cities for food under Pharaoh's hand, and preserve it. This fruit shall be a reserve for the land for seven years of famine that come into the land of Egypt, so that the land may not be destroyed in times of famine. " When we translate Jehovah's words into modern - day language, Jehovah says that during the growth phase of the economic cycle, reserves must be collected to compensate for inevitable budget deficits during the economic downturn, according to the Keynes curve. Can the Lord speak more clearly to people? What happened next? Then came the seven years of famine, as Joseph had said, and there was famine in all the lands, but there was bread in all the land of Egypt. Joseph was a very important man, for things happened to him, but I would like to talk about Pharaoh. Pharaoh was a double wise man. First, he found someone to ask. That's half the wisdom. Second, he had the wisdom to listen to what the man said and to act exactly as Joseph had said. Does anyone listen to the current Minister of Finance after the opposition? Nobody listens. I have a proposal in this regard. We have heard the word of God here, we have received this wisdom. We have realized that Joseph alone is few, so must Pharaoh, who listens to him. I'm going to propose to the Prime Minister, which is a little unusual, but maybe he can still save this government. What if the Minister of Finance was an apolitical professional, a specialist who was being listened to, not a party member who was transferred by another coalition partner? After all, we have such apolitical and real specialists from here, Aivar Sõerd, Maris Lauri, Jürgen Ligi, who have proven that they can be finance ministers. Aivar Sõerd, Head of the Tax Administration and Minister of Finance. Maris Lauri's analyst at a large bank. Jürgen, who, as Minister of Finance, survived very well the worst years of Estonia's independence, perhaps even worse than the crisis of the 1930s. If they are not professionals and specialists, but professionals and professionals are very nice history teachers, school teachers at all, and textbook authors who say that our own coalition finance minister is talking stupidly, then the question arises that you should ask the Prime Minister: listen, why do you put a person who, in my opinion, he is a nichevo, in your opinion, does not deserve to be heard? I think we're at a stage where this kind of exchange would be untraditional, but would provide some sort of solution. Not only would the honourable and authoritative Minister of Finance, as I mentioned here, give the coalition, in principle, even the opportunity to turn their promises into tricks and tricks. Because the worst thing is that even the promises that have been made are not capable of fulfilling the current coalition. Not because you don't want to. No knowledge, no books. What I was talking about was God's word. What I said should make you think, because if it was written 3,000 years ago and it was true, then maybe it's true in 3001. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U240	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U241	Ladies and gentlemen, I actually came here to settle one thing: the accusation that we didn't listen to enough experts. Yeah, maybe part of it's right. We left aside those experts who have been so close to the Reform Party and whose expertise is mainly about how to get countries to serve the interests of international capital as best as possible. This time, we decided to listen to other experts: experts in living with a minimum wage, experts in teaching at a rural school every day, experts in living without dental care, experts in managing a single-parent family. All the others who have not been heard so far. All those who haven't had a voice so far. In the case of this budget, we have listened to them and also voted for them. I think we did good. I think we need to listen to these people even more in the future. The economic cycle of saving workers and pensioners in Estonia and giving gifts to international banks has now come to an end. And I hope it stays so long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U242	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U243	Honourable Vice President! Honourable Riigikogu! I do not want to talk about the excise policy of the government; every drunk in Estonia understands this. I want to talk about a situation where the government is a drunk, but I don't understand it myself. These speeches here in a row, where the points of conversation are reported face to face, prove that we actually do not have a debate in the Riigikogu. In fact, knowledge is not monitored from outside the Riigikogu and people just come here to brag. The worst part, of course, was the speech by Sven Sester, the initiator of this big mess. He walks around here like a national hero and lets his voice rumble. The author of such a screw-up doesn't know the basic truths in finance, but he's still giving a speech. He's widening and arrogance about the cost of how he gives money to the people. Such a man, like the Minister of Finance of a right-wing party! Let's review these experts. If, in your opinion, the experts are those who are the biggest losers of drunken government, namely the poor, we believe that the experts are the European Commission and Eesti Pank, they are not at all representatives of international imperialism, as Oudekki Loone thought, as well as the Budget Council and the National Audit Office. And they say quite one thing: The government steals from the past and the future. It was very funny to hear Kersti Sarapuu talk about Fitch's rating, which he had never understood. It actually confirmed that the government was stealing from the past and the future, and it was said that it would be better afterwards. And this is what Kersti Sarapuu here praises as great wisdom. Unfortunately, the condition for this improvement is that this government will be brought down and the next government will be forced to make big cuts. And all the experts say that during the current high economics, when taxes are like mud and the government bathes in money, it still lives at the expense of eating reserves and does not have any exit strategy in connection with the disappearance of euro money. Two years ago, we can already see that euro money is disappearing, economic growth is dwindling, but it uses reserves collected in ten years instead of saving. It's bullshit, and it has to be repeated over and over again. Eesti Pank has said all these things more or less at once. However, what did Oudekki call this connection between the Reform Party and Eesti Pank? just confirmed that the government overheats certain sectors, undermines the growth potential of the economy, creates inflation and labour shortages, i.e., by summing up the Estonian economy. The Chamber of Commerce has never been so evil to governments, but it represents the elite of Estonian economic people. No one can accept what's going on right now, except for the company that comes here to brag on the remote. A few more facts. Can I have more time just in case?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U244	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U245	This dull talk about how the debt burden falls, so forgive me! It's a self-fulfilling dream as long as you live on reserves. And that's not a thing to brag about. I think it is also because the EFSF customers, whose loan we have guaranteed, are already paying back the loan. This loan has not been taken by us. Secondly, the question of defence costs. I was surprised that Mr Helme Senior, Mart, simply referred to it as natural things related to the increase in budget volume. In fact, he did not say that the percentage of defence costs was reduced to 2.1 and another 10 million were taken away. The source of this money has indeed increased the budget volume, but before it was reduced by a percentage of GDP and taken away by 10 million. I'm going to bow down to Hannes Hanso, who's going to say in the press today that he can't justify it with an honest face. The honest face has been foretold by other people who have justified it here by Jüri Luik, Mart Luik. Who else? They're gonna make an honest face and say they're gonna disprove everything, there's no such thing. Toomas Tõniste and the Prime Minister, that is, honest men who can face up, but Hannes Hanso is not gonna make a face, he's gonna testify. So money is like mud, but it's been a lottery win. We have had economic growth independent of the government. I can assure you what I have said before: nor can the previous government say that it is the author of international economics. True, he has been the author of a good economic environment, but this present abundance is certainly not a party or government service in a literal sense. A favor to the party and the government would be if they knew how to live in it, didn't run themselves stupid, and didn't inspire the people to pour it on you and pour it again. This is not sustainable. What you promise is not a good economy and a good budget for health. So cut it out! Our proposal is to interrupt this reading and ask the government to rethink the budget as well, because the reality is that the European Commission's and the government's assessment of the budgetary balance has never been so different: the difference is six times the difference. And if we have smart people here saying that it will get better after them, unfortunately the forecasts say that after them it will get worse, because these fixed costs, which are written into laws and strategies, are unsustainable and clearly also exceed the maximum allowed by the fiscal agreement agreed in Europe. Not to mention that there has been a withdrawal from the budgetary balance, there has been, in essence, a withdrawal from this maximum. I do not know how the European Commission will be able to please the assessment of our budgetary plan that is coming. Perhaps things will be covered up in the same way that our coalition politicians covered: but we have a low debt burden! It's like they've got a favor in it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U246	Now it's Martin Helme's turn. Please, three more minutes! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U247	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, The budget we have here at second reading is a bluff. Its revenue side is bluff, it's made up of lies. I tried today to find out from the Prime Minister what is going to be done with this series of excise duties, which the Tax Administration says is not forecasting, but says that it is already quite clear that the receipts are planned incorrectly and that the revenue for next year will not come like this. There's no more talking about any prognosis here, there's already talk of retrospect. But we still get chopped up like iron, that everything's in the best condition, and we have to believe the experts. I just can't, my head's gonna explode. For two years, I have been talking personally about how raising the tax rate does not mean an improvement in tax receipts. I have repeatedly said from this same remote control that raising the tax rate if it is done wrong will, in fact, lead to a reduction in tax receipts. And so it has. The tax office assures us that, despite the higher rate, our tax receipts, excise receipts are lower than they were before they were raised. The last two prime ministers and finance ministers have explained how I can't understand anything, nothing, and everything is in the best shape. And it still turns out that one unfortunate opposition ambassador understood the matter better than the prime ministers and finance ministers. Now we are standing here talking for the next two years about how a reduction in purchasing does not mean a reduction in consumption. Please, let's just stop talking nonsense because it was meant to be, because Estonians are drinking less now and it's better. Come on! First of all, when the proceeds were planned, that was not the case. Secondly, the fact that less beer is bought in Estonia does not mean that Estonians drink less beer. They simply drink this beer that is bought from non-Estonian countries. Talk or don't talk, it won't make it. It's just incomprehensible, talk like a wall. So a reduction in purchasing is not the same as a reduction in consumption have nothing to do with public health. Now, with a few words about our corrections. I must admit that budget balance is not a dogma issue for our party. I think that for the public, the curtains will simply come when politicians start talking about structural or nominal balance. It just doesn't turn anybody on. It excites these very experts, but this circle is very small. We understand all of this how important it is, but it doesn't work. I have to say that if there is a need for reasonable spending and we are in an economic cycle that requires us to spend more when the budget comes in, it is a place that is always worth looking at and considering. But every year, as a opposition party, we find it increasingly difficult to understand the budget, because it is less and less possible to count from it. At the last meeting of the Commission in which the amendments were examined, it was basically made clear to us that the budget is beginning to remind us more and more of an essay that simply puts a large amount of money behind which a beautiful story has been written about what we are doing with it. This is not a budget with cost lines and what is being done for them is no longer the case. But even in a budget like this, we can see the easy-playing costs of 55 million, which should not be done at all. And actually, we know there's a lot more of these costs. It is not a question of how much tax money we collect. The question is, why do we collect it, what do we do with this money? And we're gonna do some really shitty things for that money. I have to admit, I've still got a hole in my head from last night's Foorum, where the Soxes reported that land shops had to be subsidised. I was thinking, Heavenly Grace, are you going on study trips somewhere in Venezuela, learning how to screw up the economy and build socialism?! There is no need to subsidise shops: stop this stupid tax policy and stupid regulation, and the shops will live themselves. They do not need to be subsidised. There's a brutal waste in the budget, and it's in so many places that it really takes the entire ministry, the Ministry of Finance, to find it all there. But saying that we're doing a lot of good things, and that's why we're taking over what we promised, is basically lying to the public face. Now for the beautiful Christmas gifts the government is planning. After all, we all understand what this budget is for next year. This represents the maximum amount of money to be shrunk from the Estonian economy before the elections. Next year will be the year when the government spends so much money on as many things as it has any sense in its head, and then a little more to get a better election result. The attitude is what Louis XIV had: 'Après moi, le déluge' or 'After me come or the Flood'. After the election, I don't care who eats this thing. If this plan succeeds and the current coalition continues, then the next tax increases and the next budget cuts will come and nothing can get better. It's very symbolic in this key that there are zero people sitting in this row of IRL. I have a question of how long this party intends to be a doormat in this left-wing government, where the Minister of Finance says that this tax policy just doesn't work, dears, but everyone else does it to him. [[Makes a good gesture with his hand.]] It is simply incredible that some of the positions that accompany the government are worth more to the IRL than to get to the next parliament. But even the gifts they make are actually fake, they're wrong. The money, which is said to remain with the tax-free minimum, will be seen! Raising pensions, which we will see! Pensioners get more money for going to work, and they don't really get anything else. And the worst thing is that, of course, the left will never understand, that is, the increase in wages does not equal the increase in purchasing power. Not equal to the growth in purchasing power! If we are told that Latvians have lower salaries, do you know that according to purchasing power parities, Latvians are in a better position than us? That's right, they're in a better position than we are, because in Latvia, life is cheaper, with less pay there you can do more shopping. So just because some amount is growing doesn't mean that people's lives are getting better, because all the money that people have in their hands has already been taken away with all kinds of tax increases. And inflation, which already clearly seems from other parts of the world, is linked to the trends in the rest of the world, takes it even more. Just as the other parties who spoke before, we also propose that we interrupt the second reading of the budget so that we can remove the whole bluff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U248	Thank you. Maris Lauri next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U249	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, If you describe this budget and the entire budgeting process in any way, it is 'intelligence' and'short-term self-interest', summing up 'great irresponsibility'. First of all, in good times, prepare for the badness of this is a principle that should be followed by every person in his or her normal life, albeit by the state. But what is being done? The money that already exists will be struck out, and while the times are good, the money will be spent, not collected. But believe me, tough times are coming, I've learned the economy. The economy will operate cyclically and, even worse, by the time the reserves are struck straight, the larger European Union cash flows will end. I don't know how we're gonna do it. But we'll be fine. I imagine this government, its members, will be sitting in a bush somewhere saying they're not guilty. The second thing is what's happening now with taxes. We are mainly talking about short-term problems, that nothing is coming from anywhere, people are going away, businesses are going to be closed down. But all taxes actually have a long-term consequence that changes the behaviour of people and businesses. If the company fails to invest because there is a very high degree of uncertainty, that is exactly how it was in the first half of this year and is still in the first half of this year, this means that, two years later, we have less capacity than we could have had. This means that our economic growth is smaller, our wealth is smaller, but we do not think about it at all. We see that tax receipts are worse than they should be or are projected. This means that we have a much bigger budget deficit if we are to be shown and explained. And all of this is going to get us at one point, not today, not tomorrow, but in a few years. Thirdly, I am talking about costs. Yeah, I'm sure there are good things. There are good things in every budget. But there's also an incredible number of things that just make you sigh. I'll just name a few things. We are talking about some strategic investment that has no sign of the strategy. Strategic investments are still designed to address fundamental structural problems. What are the fundamental structural problems in Estonia? Our population is shrinking, our workforce is decreasing, but the number of dependants is increasing. This means that we should address the labour force, we should address the productivity issue. Yeah, there's a lot of business to do and decide, but we're making the environment so bad in the economy that companies lose their appetite to invest, they lose their appetite to renew their production. Moreover, we encourage people not to learn new things. There is no point in whistling at the proportion of research funding that should increase, as set for the purpose. But we should bet on that. The basis for Estonia's success has always been cleverness, the will to invent something, to do something different than being used to elsewhere in the world. But now we're going to go on the usual road, to the so-called lazy and comfortable countries. As I said, there are so many of these stupid expenses, and they have been said awfully much. So when we ask the ministers about them here, there are no more arguments, they just say that this is the case. There is no further justification, as all the arguments have long been refuted. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U250	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U251	Free things aren't just that everyone knows. Those free things have been paid off by somebody. And when we pay for free things, there must be a very good reason for it, because free things are ruining people, they are extremely ineffective in the economic sense, they do not produce results. Like I said, they're ruining a lot of people, making them comfortable and lazy. So on this point, you always have to be extremely careful, and ignorance in all this business makes me very sad. This ignorance of economic issues, fiscal issues, is very expensive for the country. And if anyone really has questions, doesn't understand the basics of the economy, I'm willing to give free consultations, lectures, seminars. I'm not taking money from you for this. Believe me, I honestly will. It is a short-sightedness that only one or two years, next or past elections, are considered. As the previous speakers have said: "Let us come, or the flood. " I have this feeling that not even this far can be thought of, i.e. whether there will be a flood or not. We have also heard many times how the actions of previous governments are signed. We have also heard how natural economic processes are written into our own name. And then, the mean is bullshit. There's no such thing as the average average. So the reasons that have been made for this budget, these choices, are pathetic. I really hope that the government and the coalition, which are very sparsely represented here, will take time to think about it. It's hope, but maybe some hopes come true at times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U252	Next, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U253	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Without wishing to repeat all the right words and thoughts that have already been said here today by the representatives of opposition parties, I will only address one area. It's an education. It is really great that teachers' salaries are rising, that municipalities are getting more money to support their schools, that it is possible to hire support specialists in schools. It's very nice, but it's a natural process of life. If we say that we want to implement inclusive education, we need all this. The fact that teachers' salaries have been so poor is simply a disgrace. And it's just really embarrassing to bring this government up as a big step forward. Since the time of awakening, education has been the basis of Estonian social thought and the vocation idea of Estonian society. As a result, we have the Republic of Estonia. Thanks to the fact that all generations that preceded us have seen the power in education that binds society to take society forward. But this idea should always get clear content, concreteness and the right, time-appropriate application. Once it was to bring Estonian to the folk school, it was to establish agricultural schools, it was to establish a university in Estonian. Today, it is what can connect and move society forward to be to support the vocation of this society, science, education and innovation. And in this picture, I ask what this government wants. Will this government destroy the great idea that has kept and managed Estonian society, allowing the Estonian state to be born in the first place? Let us remember what began to be dealt with in 1917 immediately after the first act of Estonian statehood had been adopted. They started to create their own school system, to prepare for the birth of Estonian-language higher education. It is not enough today to raise the salaries of teachers or to give more money to the school system, to look further and to make the decisions that will lead to the next century of society. Here, even the need to give the doctors the money to cope with life at an elementary level, to add 13,3 million to R &amp; D, not to say that we are maintaining the current balance and level. This is not enough and it is not suitable for an ambitious Estonian society. Jaan Tõnisson said in 1927 when he transferred the budget to the Riigikogu as an elder in 1928, that one of the advantages and strengths of a democratic society is that if one institution makes a mistake and cannot see the state and society as a whole, then the other institution has the right and obligation to correct it. This is about the Riigikogu. He also said that we must never forget that education and culture are the meaning and foundation of our statehood, without them we are like sand blown away by every breeze of the wind. And then you don't need a country. That is why culture and education are always at the top of our state budget. But in this budget, I don't see that social vocation, the calling of pursuit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U254	Thank you. Next, please, Küllik Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U255	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The representative of the coalition party, who is absent from this hall, closed his speech by saying that it is a human budget. I am saying that this is not a human budget. I will, for example, bring up the same subject that has become close to my heart the possibility of transferring land with conservation restrictions. Over a year ago, we listened to the Chancellor of Justice in this very Chamber, who announced that we were wrong about our people and that this was a constitutional offense. And it would be optimal to fulfil all the obligations that we have promised to fulfil in one year. When the Chancellor of Justice visited us, the state had a duty to the people since 2003. As of 1 October, 177 applications have been pending since 2005. Yes, the coalition has proposed to increase these budgetary resources for the circa of 4 million, but this does not solve the problem of optimal processing time. That is why our group has proposed to add EUR 5 million to this fund in order to resolve this problem as a matter of urgency. Perhaps next year there will be another 4 million in the budget, but after the parliamentary elections, as many have said here, there is no Centre Party, or in this coalition. And then what priorities do we have? Will people be protected and this constitutional breach be dealt with further? I don't think so. The question of faith is very important. We have neglected people living in the countryside, and this crisis of confidence in our country is the most painful issue in rural areas. I don't think it's right to leave these people alone. It's a bad thing to put people of the countryside together with minorities, but that's how it tends to be. So let us think about them and think about their future generations! And also think that Estonia is the bearer of tradition and conservative worldview. Earth is one of the values through which we carry these values. I would also like to point out what I do not see in this budget, which is a longer view in terms of state reform. Many are concerned that we will be able to maintain public equipment in the next few years. We will probably reach a situation in the next five years where we will automatically have to pull 25% of our public sector together, but it would be wise to look at it today. It also concerns our physical working surfaces, whether or not we can sustain them all. We'll probably have to face it as a small country if we can't support it all. Moreover, in a situation, as has been pointed out here on several occasions, where our huge source of assistance, the volume of European Union funds is decreasing. I want to pay attention to another line. For example, as a cover for the sale of land with the same conservation restrictions, the Free Party proposed the facilities of a rental housing programme. Why? There are very serious doubts here as to whether the coalition has become clear about the European Commission, which will lay down state aid rules. I would also like to give an example of what we will be dealing with in this very hall next Monday, of moving high-speed internet connections to rural areas. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U256	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U257	The problem was solved jointly by local authorities last year. What happened after the local elections? The Minister has admitted that they have started work in the wrong direction. He started working only in the spring of this year and began negotiations with the European Commission in the summer. It turned out that perhaps various projects could not be carried out in Estonia through local governments. But the rental housing program is a program built on the municipalities. I therefore question whether this budget line is even legitimate in the budget for next year. If it is claimed to be legitimate and there is evidence, why cannot the broadband network be developed together with the municipalities? Maybe there are some other schemes in the game that the coalition can't afford. So if you really want to say that this is a human budget, think about people when we vote on the amendments here and vote according to their needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U258	Thank you. Next, please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus! Please, three more minutes! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U259	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! The tactics of the burnt earth and its use have been known since antiquity. This has meant ruining everything in history for the enemy. In ancient times, it meant burning previously harvested grain, slapping well - water water, still leaving behind the damage that the next would have to be removed, and that would be as great as possible. I am quite frankly saying that I have remembered this in the same 2018 budget and following the government's recent economic policy decisions: the tax system is being trashed, the principle that good times are being collected rather than lazed is being burned. The comb is intended to be defeated by working and earning decent wages for older people, pensioners. Why? It seems that the only reason why this is being done is the government principle that in any case what has been done so far must be rendered unusable. I asked here today, in front of Parliament, as you all heard, the two current designers of public finance policy, Jüri Ratas and Mikhail Stalnukhin, twice how their twisted tax system will continue to apply in real life next year. Do they know and understand what chaos is? And can they themselves respond to the much confusing debate over the last few weeks on the introduction of the tax-free rate in a month and a half? Who, where and in what cases are they required to apply if they wish to apply this new tax-free rate? What about, for example, some of the suggestions given to teachers in training so that they are not better off applying the new tax-free rate at all, because if they do, they may be threatened by a large refund claim at the beginning of 2019? Or why, for example, does the government now want to tax rather unexpectedly working pensioners? It must be said that not all these questions have been answered. And the attitude of government politicians, which we were forced to observe here today and which we were forced to witness, is that they, as politicians, do not know enough about the fact that they do not know how; they do not need to know these answers. This is something that I do not think we can accept under any circumstances in this Chamber. But there are no answers to the questions as to why, instead of saving in good times, there has been the choice of striking, why, despite the warnings and recommendations of all these experts quoted repeatedly today, the state budget will be pushed into a deep minus in good times. All this has been discussed here today during these negotiations, but I will address another issue that I could briefly address in the course of the questions. This is about the trend that we are inevitably moving towards. According to this trend, Estonian society is ageing. The last human development report tells us that according to the population forecast, Estonia must be prepared for a lasting decline in the working age population until the middle of this century, in the next decades. The most optimistic option of this forecast is that the number of working-age people will decrease by a total of 132000 by 2060. But all the variants of the population forecast show that the share of older people in our society and in European society at large will increase significantly until the end of the 2050s. Now, when you think about the political steps that our current government is taking or has done, it can be said that the government's adaptation to the idea of an ageing society is going very, very hard. We need more work and we need to keep the hands we have on the labour market. The taxation of working pensioners in a situation where there should be a shortage of work for everyone is quite the opposite of where we should actually go. But once again, the government, which is inherent in the tactics of the burnt earth, has or seems to have been reluctant to do differently from what has been done in the past. And you can't support it. I repeat the proposal made by Jürgen Ligi, both from this remote control and publicly today. It is a proposal for the government to take back this budget, to think it over again, to review it with the opposition and then to re-table it in a sensible form. This government has said, both in this Chamber from this very remote area and in front of the various auditoriums, that they are prepared to discuss, admit and correct matters, if necessary. Show it in action, then, not just in press releases! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U260	Thank you. Next, please, Margus Tsahkna! Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U261	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! There have been many emotional criticisms and praises in this Chamber today, especially for itself. My speech focuses on a subject that has been part of the consensus policy since the restoration of Estonia's independence. This is the defence of the Republic of Estonia, more precisely, its independent defence capacity. I do not need to give an emotional speech here as a member of the Riigikogu under the window so that I do not have such an obligation to raise my party's rating. I speak as a member of the Riigikogu who is concerned and who, because of his previous occupation, is also familiar with what is planned for the development of Estonian national defence and what this budget has been presented to us, the Riigikogu, for discussion. And I'm also going to make a specific proposal. The coalition set up in November last year decided to cover this section of defence investments, which is only up to us in the development of our defence, and which is particularly painful. It's an independent defense. If we speak more specifically, in the event of a military conflict, we must have an independent defence capacity, measured by the number of days that the defence forces of the Republic of Estonia can last. One gap without going into detail, we have just had a shortage of heavy ammunition. It is measured very specifically, and this information is also shared with our allies. Thanks to the fact that Estonian national defence has been out of day-to-day political disputes, we have achieved a great deal. We are a full member of NATO. From last year, we welcome NATO troops on our territory. Protecting Estonia is no longer just a matter for Estonia and our problem, but we are at NATO's eastern border. We are on the eastern border of Western civilization, and it is our task to speak honestly and for a long time in advance with our allies as well as with our own people precisely on the subject of how protected we are and whether we can politically agree on the development of an independent defence capability. The Coalition Agreement agreed very clearly that in addition to 2% will be invested over the next three years, as well as 20 million, 20 million and 20 million over 2018, 2019 and 2020. This same promise and political message has gone public, gone to our allies and cemented various documents. In addition to the coalition agreement, this particular decision is very clearly formulated in the 'Estonian Foundations of Security Policy' document, which was also approved by the Riigikogu. It is formulated in the country's budgetary strategy, the last strategy adopted by the government in this early summer. This has gone through the same government decision on the National Defence Investment Plan: 20 million, 20 million and 20 million. It is included in the 10-year national defence development plan, which has also received the highest authority, i.e. the highest, approval of the Riigikogu. On this basis, preparations have been made to ensure and develop independent defence capabilities. It is precisely so that we can last as long as possible one day, in case what we hope will not happen, that is, a military conflict. It was decided very clearly to supplement the reserves of the Estonian Defence Forces' ammunition. But what has happened? The fact that, in the wind of budgetary balance or expenditure reduction, protection costs already agreed have been introduced as a source of cover for the first time. There has never been such a thing in the Republic of Estonia before, according to my memory. It is precisely the defence budget that has never been politically attacked in order to fulfil its other promises, which may be sweeter than abstract protection before the Riigikogu elections. There has actually been political misbehaviour here, because defending the state, especially independent defence, is a very important issue for the people of Estonia. And that's why you can't watch it here in silence. This is remarkably dangerous, because we are sending a political message that national defence is now in the same day-to-day winds of attraction. It is also a very dangerous message at international level, because, since last November, our allies have been told that, yes, we are contributing to an independent defence capacity. Your boys are here, but we reserve our strength and increase our defence capabilities in order to stand together, if necessary, not only for Estonia, but also on the eastern border of NATO and the entire Western civilization. These arguments, which have sounded that, over a year and a half, heavy ammunition worth EUR 10 million could not be delivered, do not sound very credible to the ears of those who are familiar with protection. That's not credible! That is why I call on the Riigikogu, between second and third readings, at least to think very calmly about this topic in order to find this extra investment, already agreed in the state budget of 10 million in 2018. There is no playing with national defence, ladies and gentlemen, and I hope at least this is a less emotional but more practical debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U262	Ladies and gentlemen, There are no more requests for negotiation, which means that we can go to the second reading of draft 521. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. A second amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U263	Mr President, I would like to ask you to put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U264	Let's start preparing the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, which was rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was supported by 28 members of the Riigikogu and 51 members of the Riigikogu were opposed. The amendment was not supported. The third amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and has been rejected by the commission. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the commission has ignored it. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the proposal of the commission is fully taken into account. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U265	Mr President, I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U266	Then we must vote on this proposal. Can we go to the vote? There are no objections. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the ninth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the proposal of the commission is to disregard this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this amendment and 51 members of the Riigikogu voted against. This means that this amendment was rejected. The 10th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Steering Committee has proposed not to take it into account. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U267	I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal. This will help us to get rid of the money from the roof and improve the budgetary balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U268	Okay, I got it. Can we go to the vote, don't need a call? There are no objections. I shall put to the vote the tenth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this amendment and against 50 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U269	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment that will save the balance of the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U270	The proposal is understandable. I don't think we need a call, let's get to the vote. I shall put to the vote the 11th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 34 voted in favour of the amendment and 50 members of the Riigikogu were against. The proposal was not supported. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the proposal of the commission is fully taken into account. The 13th amendment has been tabled by Maris Lauri, member of the Riigikogu, and the commission has proposed to be disregarded. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U271	I ask you to vote on this amendment, which will increase the funding for R &amp; D.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U272	Okay, I got it. Does everyone agree that we are going to the vote? [[Voice from the floor: yes.]] I shall put to the vote the 13th amendment tabled by Mr Lauri, on which the commission has proposed that no account be taken. Please take a stand and vote. 31 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this amendment and 50 members of the Riigikogu opposed. The proposal was not supported. The 14th amendment has been tabled by Ms Kersna, the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U273	Thank you, President-in-Office. Please put to the vote an amendment that supports young teachers so that they do not leave schools so quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U274	Can we go to the vote? Yeah. I shall put to the vote the 14th amendment tabled by Ms Kersna, the proposal of the commission is to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. 30 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 51 against the amendment. The proposal was not supported. The 15th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. The 16th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the proposal of the commission is fully taken into account. The 17th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U275	I ask that this amendment, which increases the support of doctoral students, which is vital for Estonia's future, be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U276	Okay, I got it. Can we go to the vote? Looks like we can. I shall put to the vote the 17th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 34 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment and 50 members of the Riigikogu voted against it. The proposal was not supported. The 18th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U277	I would also like to ask for this future amendment to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U278	Okay, I got it. I shall put to the vote the 18th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the proposal of the commission is to disregard this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. The 18th amendment was for 33 members of the Riigikogu and against 51 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. The 19th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the Steering Committee has taken full account of it. The 20th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The 21st amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. The 22nd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U279	Please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U280	Can we go to the vote? Yeah. I shall put to the vote the 22nd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the Steering Committee has proposed that no account be taken. Please take a stand and vote. There were 33 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment and 51 members of the Riigikogu against it. The amendment was not supported. The 23rd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the commission has proposed not to take account of it. The 24th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U281	Please put this amendment on the buy-out of land with conservation restrictions to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U282	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 24 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the commission has proposed that no account be taken. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was supported by 30 members of the Riigikogu, 50 members of the Riigikogu opposed, 1 member of the Riigikogu abstained. The proposal was not supported. The 25th amendment has been tabled by Urve Tiidus, member of the Riigikogu, and the proposal of the commission is disregarded. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U283	I would ask you to vote on this amendment in order to improve the performance of Estonian forests.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U284	Dear members of the Riigikogu, I am voting on the 25th amendment tabled by Urve Tiidus, on which the commission has proposed not to take account. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was supported by 32 members of the Riigikogu, 50 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The 26th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U285	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U286	I will put to the vote the 26th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the commission has proposed not to take it into account. Please take a stand and vote. The 26th amendment was for 33 members of the Riigikogu and against 49 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. The 27th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the proposal of the commission is fully taken into account. The 28th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the proposal of the commission is fully taken into account. The 29th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U287	I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U288	I shall put to the vote the 29th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 29 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal, 50 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The 30th amendment has been tabled by the Free Party Group; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U289	I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U290	We are voting on Amendment 30, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The 30th amendment was for 32 and against 49 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 31 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U291	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment supporting Estonian beekeepers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U292	Good Riigikogu, I will put to the vote before you the 31st amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 28 members of the Riigikogu in favour of Amendment 31, 47 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 32nd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U293	I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications on the costs of government.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U294	I shall put to the vote the 32nd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was for 32 and against 50 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. The 33rd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U295	I would like to ask for this amendment to improve the budgetary balance to be voted on and supported unanimously.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U296	Okay, I got it. I shall put to the vote the 33rd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was for 33 and against 50 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. The 34th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U297	However, I would also ask for this amendment to be voted on, because perhaps all the honourable colleagues did not notice the previous one.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U298	Got it. I shall put to the vote the 34th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and not supported by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 34. Amendment 34 was supported and 50 members of the Riigikogu were opposed. The proposal was not supported. The 35th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U299	I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U300	I shall put to the vote the 35th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. There were 11 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal, 51 against and 4 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 36th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the commission has failed. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U301	I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal on public transport within the county.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U302	Dear members of the Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 36 tabled by the Free Party Group and not supported by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 36th amendment was supported by 34 members of the Riigikogu and 48 members of the Riigikogu were opposed. The proposal was not supported. 37th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group, the commission does not support it. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U303	I would also like to ask for a vote on this proposal forcing EAS to save money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U304	I will put to the vote the 37th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the commission has proposed not to take it into account. Please take a stand and vote. The 37th amendment was approved by 25 members of the Riigikogu, 50 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 38th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the commission does not support it. The 39th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the lead committee does not support it. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U305	I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on for budgetary balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U306	I shall put to the vote the 39th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The 39th amendment was approved by 34 members of the Riigikogu and against 51 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. 40th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the commission does not support it. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U307	I would also like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U308	I will put to the vote the 40th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the commission has proposed not to take it into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 30 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 49 members of the Riigikogu were against and there were no abstentions. This means that the proposal was not supported. 41th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the commission has taken full account of it. 42. the amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the commission has taken full account of it. 43rd amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs in full. 44. the amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs in full. 45th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs in full. 46th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the commission does not support it. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U309	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment for the sake of budgetary balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U310	Dear members of the Riigikogu, I will vote on the 46th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the commission has failed. Please take a stand and vote. 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of Amendment 46 and against 50 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. 47. Amendment tabled by Aivar Sõerd, the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U311	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Please vote on this proposal, which will direct the money allocated to the Greek state to the stabilisation reserve of the Estonian state. Estonian taxpayers do not have to pay off the borrowing rates of the Greek state. [[The excitement in the hall. Let's hear it. The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U312	Ladies and gentlemen, despite our excitement, we must, however, vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the 47th amendment tabled by Mr Sõerd, which is not supported by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. Despite the excitement of the moment, 27 parliamentarians voted in favour of the amendment and 50 opposed it. This means that the proposal was not supported. The 48th amendment has been tabled in full by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. 49th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs in full. The 50th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group, but it is not voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. The 51st amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U313	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U314	I shall put to the vote the 51st amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party is not supported by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. The 51st amendment was supported by 34 members of the Riigikogu and 51 members of the Riigikogu were opposed. The proposal was not supported. 52nd amendment tabled by Jüri Jaanson, the proposal of the commission is to be disregarded. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U315	I would like to ask that this amendment to increase the support of the Olympic winners be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U316	Okay, I got it. Dear members of the Riigikogu, I put to the vote the 52nd amendment tabled by Jüri Jaanson, the commission does not support it. Please take a stand and vote. 52. Amendment was supported by 33 and 50 members of the Riigikogu were opposed. The proposal was not supported. 53rd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the commission does not support it. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U317	I would also like to ask that this amendment aimed at budgetary balance be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U318	Dear members of the Riigikogu, I am voting on the 53rd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the commission does not support it. Please take a stand and vote. There are 28 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the 53rd amendment, 50 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. 54th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the commission does not support it. The 55th amendment has been tabled by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U319	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. This is a proposal that will help reduce public expenditure by 2.7 million. And this withdrawal doesn't hurt anyone. It's about taking money away from political parties. Please support me!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U320	Please take a position on the 55th amendment made by the Estonian Conservative People's Party and not supported by the commission and vote on it! The 55th amendment was supported by 14 delegates, with 50 against. The proposal was not supported. 56th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party; the commission does not support it. This proposal is not subject to voting in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. 57th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party, and the commission does not support it. This amendment, too, is not to be voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. 58th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party; the commission does not support it. Also, it is not subject to a vote pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Amendment 59 is from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the lead committee has ignored it. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U321	Thank you. This is a proposal to reduce the co-financing for foreign money, which supports the institution of the Commissioner for Equality. We believe that such a radical institution, which divides society, does not need to support so much with taxpayers' money. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U322	Ladies and gentlemen, the 59th amendment tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party is not supported by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 7 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal, 52 members of the Riigikogu opposed the proposal and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 60th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party; the commission does not support it. It is not to be voted pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Amendment 61 has been tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party; the commission does not support it. This is also not subject to voting in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. The 62nd amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party; the commission does not support it. It is also not to be voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. 63rd amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party; the commission does not support it. This is also not subject to a vote pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Amendment 64 has been tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party; the commission does not support it. It is not to be voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. The 65th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party; the commission does not support it. This is also not subject to a vote pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. The 66th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party; the commission does not support it. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U323	Thank you. This is 31 million savings in Estonia's budget, which is almost the same amount as we have a budget minus - and this is an investment for Rail Baltic. We ask that we vote it out of the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U324	Ladies and gentlemen, the 66th amendment tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party is not supported by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 66th amendment was supported by 11 members of the Riigikogu, 62 against and 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 67th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party; the commission does not support it. This proposal is not to be voted on pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. 68th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party; the commission does not support it. This is also not subject to a vote pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. The 69th amendment was tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the commission took full account of it. The 70th amendment was tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the commission took full account of it. Ladies and gentlemen, We have examined all the amendments. As the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party have proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft 521, we must also vote through it. Can we go to the vote? Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U325	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. We're hoping the IRL will think about stopping it, and we'll ask them five minutes break for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U326	Five minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U327	Ladies and gentlemen, We need to carry out a very important procedure, so it is appropriate that you take your seats in the hall. We need to vote through the proposal tabled by the Free Party Group, the Reform Party Group and the Conservative People's Party Group in draft 521, to interrupt the second reading of the draft state budget law. To this end, I ask you to take a position and vote. 34 members of the Riigikogu supported the proposal to interrupt and 54 members of the Riigikogu opposed. The proposal was not supported. Second reading of the bill is over. [[In the diner.]] Deadline for amendments to the draft proposal... Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? It is very important that amendments to the state budget can also be tabled for the third reading. The deadline for amendments to draft law 521 is 29 November at 5.15 p.m. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U328	The fifth item today is the first reading of the draft law amending the Sport Act and the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U329	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Sport Act and the Income Tax Act before you is intended to make life easier for sports judges. To this end, the Ministry of Culture, together with the Ministry of Finance, the Tax and Customs Board and the Estonian Olympic Committee, has analysed how to solve the issue of supporting and paying sports judges that had been a long-standing problem in a comprehensive manner. When analysing the various options, it was concluded that it would be important to improve the area by creating a legal basis for a sports organisation and a sports school to compensate a sports judge on a voluntary basis for the costs of a sports judge on a non-tax basis of up to EUR 20 per day as a sports judge. Today the draft has passed the round of coordination, it has been approved by the Government of the Republic and, as you can see, it has been submitted to the Riigikogu. According to the bill, the sports organisation and the manager of the sports school, or sports school, entered in the sports register of Estonia, have the right to pay up to 20 euros in tax-free compensation to a sports judge operating as a volunteer at a sports competition. The reimbursement of costs contributes to the involvement and increase of volunteers. The amendment does not increase the income of the organisers of the sports competition and does not require support from the state budget. In order to be able to act as a judge in the competition, a volunteer must make certain expenses before the start of the competition season and during the competition season. The person must participate in training and seminars and pay for the licence, acquire uniforms, suitable shoes and work equipment. A legal basis is now created for the sport organisation to compensate the voluntary sports judge for the costs incurred during the competition season, with the judge no longer having to submit the cost cheques. Of course, the organiser of the contest will decide the amount of compensation per day based on his financial possibilities, as is the case today. The compensation may, as has already been said, be up to EUR 20. One person may receive compensation of up to EUR 1040 per calendar year, i.e. on average he may receive compensation for acting as a judge in a one-day competition once a week. The draft relates to a government action programme which aims to continue the reform of the financing of sport, including reducing red tape in relations between the state and sport organisations, making it easier to reimburse the costs of voluntary sports judges and, of course, also to reduce possible tax risks. I would, of course, ask you to support this bill. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U330	Questions for the initiator of the draft. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U331	Thank you. Good waitress! This is indeed an extremely necessary draft and it is very welcome that you have come here with it. I have a question about the payment of expenses to the sports judge. In particular, some sports may receive more than EUR 20 of this benefit, i.e. this compensation would be subject to taxation. Can a cost benefit of EUR 20 and a higher amount be combined when it is paid, for example, that EUR 20 is paid free of income tax and the rest is taxed? This is where I read that you can't use them in combination.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U332	Yes, indeed, in the same competition, the same judge cannot be granted both tax-free compensation and remuneration. If we are talking about more than EUR 20 per day, we expect it to be treated as remuneration, i.e. 'professional judges', who are already doing so in order to obtain additional income or also in order to work. We also have some of those judges who basically live on this job. In such a case, taxes must be paid on this fee. For this purpose, in accordance with the agreement of the Government Union, the budget for the coming year, which you have just discussed, is also set at half a million euros, which will be distributed to the major sports associations and federations organising sports competitions, so that the social guarantees of these coaches, and certainly taxes on these fees, are also covered. But one judge may act in both professional and voluntary form. It is not excluded that, for example, on any Saturday morning, a professional judge does half a day of his judicial work, he gets paid for it and taxes are paid for it, and then he goes to another competition in the afternoon, whose friends have decided to register and which is an official competition, but it is clearly an amateur's affluence, and he can be paid the same compensation for his participation in it, which is exempt from tax. However, in the same competition on the same day, two options cannot be combined for the same judge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U333	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U334	Thank you. I will continue with the same subject that was left behind. If the 20 euros are tax-free, but we pay the judge, say, 200 euros, will the 180 euros go to income tax or will the social tax also have to be paid? I didn't understand it, the explanatory memorandum didn't explain this part of the social tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U335	When we are talking about this bill, here we are talking about up to EUR 20 a day, which is tax-free, free of all taxes, there is no income tax or social tax, because we are talking about compensation, we are not talking about pay. If a higher amount is to be paid, it is regarded as remuneration and all taxes, i.e. income tax and social tax, must be paid from it, and social security will also arise. The example was 200 euros. That is exactly the case: all of this EUR 200 will then be taxed as remuneration, from which it will not be possible to pay EUR 20 tax-free.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U336	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U337	Thank you. Well, now there's more questions. How will these sports or competition organizers keep this record? All that exceeds EUR 20 is therefore regarded as remuneration and cannot be used. It was just a continuation of the previous story. Maybe you'll explain it again. But rather, I have the question, where did this 20 euros come from, from how much money you had, or from how much money you needed? We know that this is not the need, the judges are now certainly asking more for any level of judicial work in one day. To that, maybe you'll explain a little bit about how different organizers should get information from each other. The judge doesn't have to say he just came from the last race, it can't be the responsibility of the contestant. Maybe there's some way to explain it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U338	It's his own business to go to a number of competitions during the day. In the case of different competitions, the basis on which they are remunerated or reimbursed is the nature of the competition and the level of remuneration paid there, or the level of compensation. The club or sports school must choose what it qualifies for. As far as the total amount is concerned, the calculation of the amount is made in the logic that a voluntary judge would, on average, be reimbursed each week one day each week. 52 weeks multiplied by EUR 20: of which this ceiling will be EUR 1040 per year. He could be in camp somewhere for a week, get 20 euros a day and whistle the races there, but in total, the amount must not exceed 1040 a year. As with any other tax liability, each person here is liable, in the sense that if this limit is exceeded, he must take into account that labour taxes have to be paid for the remainder.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U339	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U340	Thank you. The explanatory memorandum said that you have done a 20-euro analysis for the calculation of this amount. Could you describe in more detail how you got to that sum? Why is it 20 euros instead of 25 or 15 or some other order of magnitude?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U341	As I said, these options were analysed with the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration and the Olympic Committee. In addition, sports organisations were asked for additional information on how many competitions they had, the costs they would incur, and what would normally be the amounts paid to a sports judge on a voluntary basis. From there it was found that this amount was up to EUR 20 per day. We are talking about voluntary judges who work in this field from time to time. This is not their income, it is more about the reimbursement of these expenses: they have to travel, as has been said, they have to get the resources, they have to pay for the judge's licence, there is often a form in which the judge works and for which he has to pay. For it to be reasonably compensated without additional bureaucracy, without cheques and all other things, this opportunity has now been created by law for the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U342	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U343	Thank you. I would still be a little more specific about the surplus of EUR 20. Let's say I have a judge I want to pay 100 euros to. Let me get this straight. If I want to pay him EUR 100, I still have to pay all the taxes on labour for the whole of the EUR 100, and I don't get a discount on 20 euros. Is that right? But if so, when you were preparing this law, did you also think that if you wanted to abuse it, I could make a scheme that I would write down five judges on paper, each of whom will be like 20 euros, but I will actually pay 100 euros to one person, even though I will provide you with the information that there are five judges?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U344	Yeah, but then you have at least five accomplices in the crime, four of whom have not actually received compensation. The circle of those who have to accept this abuse is already quite large. Ultimately, not all possible schemes can actually be ruled out under any tax law. But I doubt that someone would have the motivation to start taking the risk of writing random names on paper and claiming they've been rewarded. All the more so when, at the end of the year, a person starts declaring all of this and the benefit rate exceeds EUR 1040, although, according to his own estimates, this should not be the case, he will be given all this information, and he will have the important motivation to prove that he has been made of hocus-pocus and has not actually received the money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U345	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U346	Thank you. Perhaps it would be easier if we did not talk at all about the possibility of a person being paid as a reward, whether he is somewhere, for example, a linejournalist or acting in some other way. When I read the explanatory statement, I see that the real aim is to cover the costs of training, uniforms, tools, such as whistles, transport, accommodation, etc. Perhaps, then, it would be more reasonable to say that EUR 1040 per year is earmarked for the purchase of equipment for a judge and items necessary for volunteering? Then there is no double understanding, as we are now asking each other to win, whether or not it can be paid as a salary. It might be easier this way. I have a point to clarify in this regard. Let me get this straight. You can take it out at the same time? If the judge comes to the sports league and says he's a judge here and he came here with a package of whistles, shirts and everything, and here's his check for 1038 euros, is that okay?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U347	If there's a sports federation like this who wants to pay a judge 1,000 euros without doing the job, it's theoretically conceivable, but I don't know if anyone will. Do you, as head of the alliance, simply pay compensation to a volunteer sports judge without him working? After all, the state does not give any sports club or sports organisation any additional money; it takes away this bureaucracy. At present, this payment had to be justified either by cheques or, in fact, by the expectation that taxes would be paid on this money. This was accompanied by a lot of annoying bureaucracy and, I mentioned before, in fact, a possible tax risk. In order to cut red tape, make life easier and reduce the tax risk, it is now possible to reimburse up to EUR 20 for a single sports competition. There can be no more than EUR 1040 a year to make it clear that we have voluntary sports judges who participate in the competition 365 days a year. That's why it makes sense to have a cap on it. But the state does not provide any means for volunteer sports judges to operate, which in turn can be further shared. We are talking, however, in the second paragraph (it is not directly related to this law, although indirectly it is), about the fact that next year, the major organisers of sports events, where there are essentially paid judges, will be allocated half a million euros to pay additional taxes. But this is a completely different story, it has nothing to do with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U348	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U349	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question is driven by your last sentences. On the basis of which criteria were these potential major sports competition organisers selected or selected and on which basis are they compensated? Who decided where that list was and how much money do these clubs get?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U350	I'm afraid I don't have that list with me because it's not part of this bill. But the list was decided after the organisers of the sports events had collected detailed information on how many competitions they had and what the fees would be paid there. During the negotiations with the Estonian Olympic Committee and its sports organisations, those sports organisations who are going to receive this money and who, in turn, are going to distribute it within their organisation were screened out in order to reward and pay off all the necessary taxes. But, of course, I can also send a more detailed explanation in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U351	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U352	I have a very specific question about the same question. There are quite a number of competitions organized in Estonia. Are the de-mobilities included in the category you mentioned?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U353	That's right, that's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U354	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. The rapporteur for the Commission is Toomas Jürgenstein, member of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U355	Good President! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I promise myself a little line for starters. It is a great thing that there have been such drafts side by side: the previous draft, with a central amount of 10 billion, and this draft, which goes through 20 euros. But it's both important. The draft law amending the Sport Act and the Income Tax Act was discussed in the Commission on 9 November, i.e. Thursday. On behalf of the Ministry, Chancellor Paavo Nõgene was present, who gave the same overview as the Minister just a moment ago. Members of the Commission also had some questions. Heljo Pikhof asked whether the reimbursement of the travel expenses of judges would take place in Estonia or abroad. He was told that this was happening within Estonia. Krista Aru asked about the size of the volunteers. Today, too, it came to an order of magnitude of 4500. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 15 November, i.e. today. It was decided to appoint Toomas Jürgenstein as rapporteur, it's me. It was decided to propose the completion of the first reading and to propose the deadline of 22 November for the submission of amendments. These decisions were all consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U356	Thank you. Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No questions. Now I'm opening negotiations. It's first reading. I expect Mr Pevkur to speak on behalf of the Reform Party Group. If Lauri Luik wants to talk, he must have the authority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. [[The excitement in the hall.]] Lauri Luik will speak on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U357	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thanks to the Ministry of Culture and those people who have made an effort to ensure that this bill concerning sports judges has finally reached the tables of the Riigikogu! For years we have been talking about this in the Riigikogu Sports and Movement Support Group, which is, as I recall, the second largest support group in the Riigikogu. The subject has been through it many or many times. It is a pleasure to note that sport issues have gradually reached this hall. One can start with, for example, that the Minister is now obliged to give the Riigikogu an overview of developments in sport every year, about how the field of sport has gone. Secondly, we have managed to resolve the issue of coach pay. We are also pleased that the abolition of the special preferential tax on sports activities has been legalised, as well as that good colleague Jüri Jaanson has taken the issue of Olympic winners' subsidies, which will be here again tomorrow in this big hall. Now we've reached the judges. This issue is largely about 5 000 people who do judicial work every week or less often. For example, there are about 400 people in the School Sports Association who help to whistle and to maintain order in sports games and competitions. So it's all about a lot of people. After all, the judge is at least as important in my opinion as an athlete or coach. So he's one of the three fundamentals when we're talking about the people in the contest. In this sense, it is very important that we have come to a solution to this issue. The aim is noble: to solve this long-standing problem, that the judges are paid scholarships and that the state will not recover the tax. But I see some dangers here that, I believe, we can improve in the process or work. I would like to draw attention to them. One thing is the obligation to declare if the amount exceeds EUR 1040 per year. However, if, for example, the judge has received EUR 1000 from the School Sports Association and EUR 1000 from the Basketball Association, this obligation to declare remains with the judge. The question is whether we can ensure that the judges are all going to declare correctly. That might make administration difficult. So the question of honesty and control is what you should pay attention to and critically review this once more. We have had one of those practices, but it has not been absolute, that we have avoided writing money numbers into the law, because time is moving forward and money numbers and orders of magnitude are changing in relation to the depreciation of money or inflation. Maybe it's worth considering that we don't write specific money numbers into the law. There is a risk of scheme, which I also referred to in my question to the Minister. Of course, we make laws in good faith and assume that people are honest and do not use 'back doors'. Nevertheless, it would be worth a moment to think about whether we can avoid paying EUR 100 to one judge, then five people will be put into work and paid as everyone does 20. It's just a place to think about the ministry and the Commission. Unfortunately, of course, this does not solve the concerns of all sports organisations at EUR 500000, which is intended to mitigate the system's changes and the consequences thereof. I can give an example of my sports organisation, the Estonian School Sports Association. We are not affected by this change, because here is the distinction that this organisation must participate in the Estonian Championship, etc. Unfortunately, the School Sports Association does not go down there. Maybe I'll take an extra minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U358	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U359	If possible, an extension of this circle could be considered. I understand that money is always limited, but, for example, the target group of the School Sports Association is several tens of thousands of young people across Estonia who exercise throughout the year and whose activities are very important in terms of laying the foundation for health. If there's any way, maybe we could try and find some more tools. Thanks again. It's been a long way and a lot of effort, a lot of broken heads, how to solve this problem. In my opinion, the Ministry and all the people involved take a long step forward, we are once again doing a great service in the field of sport. I hope we will set an example for those young people who, voluntarily, are encouraged to live athleticly and to maintain their health. Good luck to us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-15_U360	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. First reading of Bill 534 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 22 November. I'll see you tomorrow. Good night. Closure of the sitting at 7:32 p.m.
