ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Our question is to Mikhail Korb, Minister of Public Administration, and this concerns the role of local governments in the protection of the population. On 3 December 2015, the Government of the Republic decided to set up a task force on population protection. The aim of public protection is to raise people's awareness of possible crisis situations, improve their skills to cope with these situations and strengthen preparedness for these situations and ensure the protection of residents in cooperation with different institutions. The concept of population protection is to be developed, with almost all ministries involved. We have six questions about this. One of these concerns that, according to the 2015 Eurobarometer survey, one of our problems is poor knowledge of emergency risks; people cannot assess the adequacy of prevention. On behalf of the seven members of the Free Party, I have the honour to hand over this inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U3	I have accepted an inquiry. We will proceed with this on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 86 members of the Riigikogu are present. Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! Due to § 73 (1) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the sitting today does not open the discussion of agenda item 2 because the rapporteur who initiated the draft is not present for discussion of the agenda item. Thus, the first reading of Bill 415 of the Environmental Impact Assessment and Amendment Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, does not take place.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U4	Let's pick up where our job broke out last night. The draft 395, i.e. the first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Estonian Foundations of Security Policy' submitted by the Government of the Republic, continues. The speeches of the political groups were halfway through. Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U5	The President-in-Office signaled with a bell that the class had begun. Since I have taken on the position of a lecturer, I would ask you to listen carefully. I'm gonna start with a little hoax. The statement that the Prime Minister was proposing to report on this matter before the Riigikogu was coming from the Committee on Foreign Affairs yesterday when he discussed security policy, but in reality it came from the National Defence Committee. So now that little glitch has been clarified. However, as far as security policy is concerned, yesterday, the whole session really took place during the debate on this subject, and it was not random. Estonia has been geopolitically involved with its Baltic neighbours in a situation where security is the primary and most central issue. From the point of view of international relations: what is the task of the state? It is the task of the state to ensure security and public services for its citizens. So in this respect, in any case, our group welcomes the subject matter and we do not have too many complaints about the document as such. The document has been examined by committees, it has been discussed in depth, it has been proposed to be amended and supplemented, so there are no complaints here. However, there is a place where complaints are presented elsewhere. In fact, when we look at Estonia's internal political practice, we see that we are constantly being sown over all kinds of RACs, MAKs, RESs and do not know what abbreviations yet, which all reflect very important things. But if we ask whether these MAKs and RAKs are all being implemented, we will see that, to a large extent, the objectives recorded there remain partially or sometimes completely unfulfilled. Therefore, we should critically look at the practical possibilities for implementing these very foundations of security policy. We believe that it is our primary responsibility as MEPs to ensure that the documents we have adopted and approved are properly implemented in practice by the government, as our contractor, and we naturally realise that the situation is changing all the time and that many of the things that may be relevant today may not be equally topical tomorrow. When I listened yesterday to the Prime Minister's presentation, unfortunately, I had a question in my brain all the time about Russia, Russia's aggression and the threat to Russia. I, too, asked in Question Time (or asking any other question), threw my view into the air that we should think about whether our governments will not gradually implement what was written in 1992 in Sergei Karaganov's near-foreign doctrine because of external pressure, internal weakness and also day-to-day calculations. It is the preservation of segregation under the sign of talking about coherence, the granting of the status of the Russian language essentially another national language, and thereby securing the place of Russian diasporas as an influence in our politics and influence in shaping foreign policy of other countries vis-à-vis Estonia. That's a very serious subject I'm putting up here right now. I ask all respected parliamentarians to consider whether we are not helping with our hands to carry out the Karaganov doctrine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U6	There are no further requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 395. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 16 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U7	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the External Action Service Act and the Civil Service Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Vice-Chairman of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We will continue the debate where we left off in February. Before the second reading, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has discussed the draft before you twice. I would like to remind you that this is a draft, which involves the transformation of the EEAS's expenditure. The impact on civil servants is above all that their social guarantees are growing, as this part of their income, which is subject to social tax, is increasing. For institutions, this will lead in particular to an increase in wage costs, especially in the form of tax costs. Before proceeding with the draft, the Committee on Foreign Affairs wanted a more detailed overview of the grounds on which the reimbursement of the costs of the change was planned for the sending ministries. We discussed this in the Commission when the country's budget strategy was still pending discharge from the government or the discussions were still ongoing. In particular, during this debate in the Commission, the question arose as to whether the increase in wage and tax costs foreseen as the effect of the law, which concerns the Ministry of Defence, could, inter alia, be covered by defence expenditure or not. Our 4 April session was attended by Chancellor Jonathan Vseviov of the Ministry of Defence and Chancellor Rainer Saks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Deputy Secretary General Tõnis Saar was also present from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The representative of the Ministry of Defence explained that the Ministry of Defence would certainly support and consider this draft to be necessary, but the Ministry of Defence considered that a certain problem was the same higher tax burden that had already been referred to. Other ministries, who also send people abroad, will be compensated for the extra costs, but the Ministry of Defence had not reached such an agreement during the budget negotiations. In response to our question, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Defence explained that the additional cost of this change per year is EUR In addition to listening to the representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we wanted a comment and clarification from the Minister of Finance. So we invited Minister of Finance Sven Sester to the meeting on 13 April, accompanied by Marika Tuusis, Deputy Head of the State Budget Department of the Ministry of Finance. The Minister of Finance confirmed that it was indeed not intended to compensate the Ministry of Defence for any additional costs incurred in reorganising the costs of the External Action Service. The justification provided by the Minister for Finance was that the budgetary situation of the Ministry of Defence is different from that of other ministries. The size of the Ministry of Defence's budget, as we are all well aware, relates to GDP, at present 2% of it is earmarked for defence expenditure. In addition, 2% will be reimbursed for the expenses related to the presence of the allies. As a result of this different situation, the cuts previously suffered by other ministries have not, according to the Minister of Finance, been affected by the Ministry of Defence and are therefore not compensated for any additional costs arising from other legislative changes. To clarify, the Minister of Finance said that wage costs are part of defence costs and are covered by the defence budget, i.e. the same percentage of GDP. The additional information that the Minister of Finance shared with us was that, as the GDP has recently been corrected upwards, the budget of the Ministry of Defence will increase by around EUR 4 million compared to what was previously known. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance does not consider the separate reimbursement of the costs arising from this draft to be justified. The result of the debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs was that we want to emphasise this separately, that is what we have done in the protocol and in the explanatory memorandum to the second reading, so that the decisions that assume expenditure on defence expenditure must be extremely cautious and attentive. Surely there is no way to accept the principle that defence expenditure should be used to cover expenditure which by its nature is not defence expenditure. We certainly cannot consider this to be justified. The explanation of the representatives of the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Defence that salary costs are part of defence expenditure and therefore this principle is certainly not being violated at the moment was certainly important to know. When discussing the bill, I think we all have to remember that. The Committee on Foreign Affairs acknowledges that the issue of compensation for the costs of the Ministry of Defence in particular falls outside the direct scope of the draft. As this is the impact of the draft, we have separately fixed our principles in the explanatory memorandum. That was the course of the debate that took place during the two meetings of the Commission. There is also one amendment that is technical in its content. In particular, Paragraph 1 (3) of the draft, where there is a reference to the mandate rule, will be worded not in the form of 'paragraphs 1 and 2', but in the form of 'paragraphs 1 and 2', but will be worded as follows:'subparagraph 5'. I kindly ask all of you to support this. Speaking of procedural decisions, it was our wish to discuss this draft in the Riigikogu plenary on 2 May, which was yesterday, but it was good that we have reached it at least on 3 May. Our proposal, i.e. the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U9	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you. There's no call. There is one amendment to the proposal 324 and it is made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs itself, so it has been fully taken into account. No problems. The second reading of Bill 324 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U10	The following is a presentation by the Governor of Eesti Pank on the annual report of Eesti Pank for 2016. Honourable Riigikogu, I remind you of the procedure. First of all, Ardo Hansson, Governor of Eesti Pank, is a presentation that lasts up to 20 minutes. The next question is to the waitress. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. After that, there will be negotiations, which may be attended by the political groups. Please, Governor of Eesti Pank Ardo Hansson!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U11	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to present the report of Eesti Pank last year. In a professional sense, this event has always been the highlight of my year. This is, of course, part of our reporting obligation, but this discussion that arises here, and these interesting questions and topics have always been very pleasant when we think afterwards. So I'm happy to be here in early May. Not to mention that today is the 98th birthday of Eesti Pank, on 3 May 1919 the Bank's core capital, 10 million marks, was transferred from the main book of Eesti Pank, and the first amount was accepted to the current account. In this way Eesti Pank started its substantive activities. Today I speak on three issues. Firstly, I am talking a little bit about the euro area and the world economy and monetary policy, secondly about the Estonian economy and thirdly about the activities of the central bank last year. Starting with a wider external environment, it can be said that the picture is a little more optimistic than it was a year ago. Things have been improving in some regions and now in Europe, and global economic activity is improving. We were accustomed for years to a situation where forecasts were made and then they were constantly corrected downwards because the real development was worse than we had foreseen. Lately, this trend has changed, we're adjusting the projections upwards rather and we're a little bit more optimistic about the future. This is true throughout Europe, where the European Central Bank estimates that growth will remain at 1.6 to 1.8% in the coming years (I am talking about the euro area). This is rather slow economic growth, we would certainly like more growth than 1.6% or 1.8%. However, the weakness of the economic growth potential is more due to the lack of structural reforms in several countries, not as much as demand is insufficient. Central banks have also played a role in economic recovery. We have reduced interest rates and we have talked about this here before. Central banks have set the target of inflation to be slightly below 2% per annum in the medium term. In recent years inflation has been close to zero. It has not satisfied the central bankers and has not been in line with our mandate. It is understandable that, in this situation, we are trying to increase the inflation rate moderately through different measures, we have reduced interest rates and, in recent years, we have bought public or private bonds for quite substantial amounts. A year ago, we further relaxed monetary policy. We saw that the situation was not very good. We used to buy securities for 60 billion a month, then we picked it up to 80 billion. In the second half of the year, when developments became much more positive, we made politics a little tougher. We have now reduced this monthly rate to 60 billion again. There has been quite a lot of positive news in recent months. A few weeks ago, euro area unemployment was reported to be the lowest in eight years. Last week we also received some good news about inflation: in April inflation was +1.9%. If these positive trends continue and are confirmed, we think that inflation will be on a moderate upward path, then there will be an opportunity to further adjust this policy sometime in the future, which in itself would be good news. When describing all these steps, it must be remembered that there are no free lunches. These steps may lead to an increase in inflation, but a mild monetary policy may create a certain risk of bubble-bathing in different financial or real estate markets. It may be that when times are hard, governments are forced to carry out reforms, but when things get easier, they may not be implementing them so quickly. The larger the balance sheet of the central bank, the greater our financial risks. We stress again that this means that Eesti Pank needs to grow its reserves. I will now come to the Estonian economy and I will talk about last year and a little bit about the beginning of this year. Here, I think, you have to distinguish the year as a whole and the last quarter of the year or the other half. If we look at the year as a whole, we see that the picture was not very positive, economic growth was only 1.6% per year in the initial figures, unaccustomedly low. When we started looking at the factors why this growth was so slow, it turned out that one factor was definitely a weak external environment. Our two very important trading partners, Finland and Russia, did not go very well and this had to affect our economy in one way or another. Secondly, there were problems in certain sectors of the economy, particularly the oil shale industry, energy and, at the end of the year, agriculture as well, because of the very poor harvest of cereals. These problems depend on world market prices or the climate, and we cannot have much influence on them. So in this sense, I believe that there were more problems in individual sectors of the economy and in foreign markets than problems in the structure of our economy. Growth accelerated in the second half of the year. In the fourth quarter, we saw that growth was quite rapid, 2.7% per year, and this growth was increasingly broad. Some individual factors in the fourth quarter may have affected this growth, such as the production of excise goods. If excise duties are known to rise soon, these goods will be quickly produced and bought. All this together may have stimulated the economy a little in the fourth quarter. Yesterday, Statistics Estonia published data on industrial production in March, which is phenomenal. They're just hard to believe. There are all kinds of base effects involved here, but these data say that industrial production increased by 15% per year (this was industrial production in general, including energy, mining, etc.). So it's a pretty fast growth rate. In my opinion, this confirms that when oil prices increased, our trading partner in Russia did not go so badly, and Finland was starting to do better, it is already having an obvious positive impact on our economy. Private sector confidence indicators have rather improved, and companies want to recruit employees. The main problem has been the shortage of labour, which will have an impact on economic growth. We had this controversial situation for a long time when, on the one hand, the growth figures were relatively weak, on the other hand, the labour market figures were all extremely strong. When we looked at employment, wage growth, unemployment and the rate of vagants, we saw that all of them indicated that the labour market was rather overheated. One of the objectives of government fiscal policy is to balance economic development. We don't want to repeat this boom-and-burst experience when a couple of years go super good and then a couple years go really, really bad. This logic is built into our current laws through the principle of structural balance. There is a question of whether we are at a low or a peak. We'll probably have to look at a number of indicators. I think it was easier to say six months ago. One could refer to slow economic growth and say that we need a supportive fiscal policy. However, we and many others looked at labour market indicators rather than more reliable and said that we were already at a peak. So it's not an exact science, many give different estimates. The IMF published an updated forecast in Estonia a few weeks ago, where it suggested that in 2018 Estonia's GDP gap would be close to zero in technical terms. So we don't have much of that untapped potential. The European Commission has considered this gap to be positive rather than negative. There are other institutions that say it is negative. It is always possible to hold a debate, but I think we can get into a situation where four or five institutions are looking at this subject on the basis of their own method and say that we are either close to balance or we are already crossing the balance point. In our opinion, the Estonian economy does not need to be further stimulated by the government in this situation. We believe that this would damage long-term economic growth. We've said that many times in the last few weeks. We also sent the same message at the coalition talks to which I was invited once. We said the same thing to the previous government. In the Postimees last October, I had an opinion story where I wrote that the Estonian economy does not need additional stimulation in this situation. If you look back a year or a half, then, I think you can see that we've been talking quite consistently about a similar story and that in a situation where there were conflicting figures. But now that the contradiction is disappearing, we think that this position is even better justified. If the government starts to stimulate the economy further through the deficit, the labour market will heat up even more, we will make the situation of companies even more difficult to find workers and we can damage Estonia's long-term economic growth. Rapid wage growth will also be supported by the fact that prices have started to rise again. We got used to a situation where inflation was close to zero in Estonia over a few years. So nominal wage growth was about as high as real wage growth. Over the last 6 to 8 months, inflation in Estonia has risen from around 0% to 3%. Quite a rapid increase, once again linked to a large number of external factors, partly due to excise policy, etc. But this situation was over, and now that prices are rising, the question is how wage negotiations are going to proceed and whether employees are demanding partial compensation for this increase through even faster wage growth. So the difficult situation in the labour market will certainly persist. Finally, I come to the activities of Eesti Pank itself. What are we doing, anyway? There's a lot of talk about it in the annual report. Of course, it is also included in the Eesti Pank Act and the mission of Eesti Pank is to contribute, among other things, to the sustainable development of the Estonian economy and to the growth of wealth, to keep price growth moderate, to shape and implement a common monetary policy with the central banks of other euro area countries, to keep the Estonian financial system stable, to help shape financial sector policies, to ensure high-quality cash and to promote a secure and well-functioning payment environment, to provide an independent assessment of the situation and prospects of the economy, to advise the government on important economic policy issues and to produce high-quality statistics. This is really a very diverse activity, and this is today's central banking. As elsewhere in the Estonian state institutions, a very large part of our work is related in one way or another to pan-European issues. This year, the securities settlement platform TARGET2-Securities will be launched, and the depositary of Estonian securities will join in September this year. We have constantly released new and safer "second series" banknotes, in April we released new EUR 50 banknotes. A meeting of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank will take place in June, and every 20 years they will visit us in Estonia. We also have a role to play during the Presidency of the European Union when we are working with the Ministry of Finance. There are quite a lot of things to do towards Europe, and Europe's challenges are growing. In this context, we have not increased the number of our employees; Eesti Pank is the smallest central bank in the European Union in terms of staff. Our goal is to do our job well and efficiently. In this situation, the share of our expenditure in Estonia's GDP over the last five years has decreased by about a sixth, the size of our budget compared to Estonia's GDP. When we are talking about administrative reform and increasing the efficiency of the public sector, I think we have tried to contribute in our own way in this area as well. Following the formulation of the monetary policy of the euro area, the second major task is to ensure financial stability in Estonia. Well-functioning banks are one of the conditions of a successful economy. In the area of financial stability, our greatest work has been to develop a toolbox for macro-financial supervision, which will help us reduce the risk of building a real estate loan boom and ensure that banks are able to resist the problems. Work in this area will continue, we will try to clarify our methods so that we can catch this moment when risks have grown very high. I am also talking about other central bank tasks, first cash circulation. Last year the circulation was smooth and cash in Estonia was of high quality. When I travel around the world, I am always very proud of the quality of Estonian cash. When I look at my wallet and compare the banknotes there with the money in other countries, I feel very proud. Looking more broadly, it is good that access to cash in rural areas has improved and is still improving. In 2014, we talked about these issues here. In the meantime, we have offered concrete solutions, including commercial banks, to offer solutions. Now a new bank is coming on the market, which is very much for the people of rural areas. I think sometimes it's worth remembering that things can go for the better. The settlements worked well last year. We are joining the TARGET2-Securities framework. We did and do high-quality statistics, we invest in foreign currency reserves, we advise the government on economic policy, etc. But as Governor of Eesti Pank, I also have to think about bad surprises. As I mentioned at the outset, financial risks have rather increased and this has created the need for larger reserves. Last year our profit was 31,4 million euros, a quarter of which, or about 8 million euros, we put into the state budget. This was the largest dividend payment to the state budget in the last four years. On the one hand, our risk managers have done a good job guaranteeing profitability at a pretty difficult time. I already told you about the costs. We're trying to be effective. In this way, we can ensure maximum profitability, which will allow us to contribute more to the state budget. Three quarters of our profits were transferred to reserves on the basis of the decision of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. I want to thank you for giving me permission last year to raise central bank reserves. The capital of the central bank is therefore on a stronger footing. When I conclude, modest economic growth has been a concern for everyone in Estonia; we all work for our own and for the better lives of our children. I think that when looking for new growth, we should not forget what the Estonian state has done so far for good growth. I would like to mention public finances in a proper manner and the financial sector on a strong footing. I think that by acting sensibly, the state can give economic security to businesses, and then private investment will also come that will feed future growth. Thank you for your attention and I am happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U12	Questions for the Governor of Eesti Pank. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U13	Honourable Chairman! Mr President of Eesti Pank, first of all, congratulations to you on this day and thank you very much for your interesting presentation. But here's my question. Let us look at the institutions that value the Estonian economic cycle. This assessment is very important because it also depends on whether the country's fiscal decisions are right or wrong. The International Monetary Fund, the European Commission and the Fiscal Council of Eesti Pank and Eesti Pank value the economic cycle differently from the Ministry of Finance. I know you've had meetings with the Treasury Department, and you've been discussing these issues. How does the Ministry of Finance explain this? Where do we have these unimplemented resources? Employment is at the highest level throughout history and...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U14	Thank you, Aivar Sõerd! One minute should do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U15	... our production facilities are occupied by over 75%. Where are the unused resources that they claim to be available?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U16	Thank you for your question. Of course, it is very difficult, in a professional sense, to try to assess this state of play. Economists and a number of institutions draw up different models for this; there are different approaches in the world. The International Monetary Fund, the Fiscal Council and Eesti Pank seem to think that this gap is either close to zero or rather slightly positive. We're talking next year. This year, these differences are bigger. The European Commission, as far as I know, has not yet expressed its position, but it was one of the first to say that Estonia is rather above the balance point. This is simply due to different methods and assumptions. I think we could talk for a long time on technical issues, some methods are simpler, some are more complicated, one method gives one result, the other gives another result. I think it is always useful when different institutions offer different visions. Why don't you put them all on the table and see if there's some kind of consensual view? After all, in the future we will find out who was right and who was wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U17	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President of the Bank of Estonia, thank you for this review. A few weeks ago, when you answered our inquiry, you also mentioned that you do not think that the Estonian economy needs additional stimulation. The Prime Minister is of a different opinion, we were only convinced of this yesterday when he came here to answer. His understanding is that the potential for growth is much greater and that investment can stimulate growth. He said we could do more. It reminded me of the great leap of the Chinese Communists. They thought they could get to communism faster, too, but it ended very unfortunately. But can you open a more detailed dialogue with the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister on these issues? Has the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank said or intends to say anything about bringing this particular budget deficit?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U19	Thank you for your question. I will start with the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. This council is independent. Whether he's judging or not, I can't tell you that, but he's more in charge of monitoring our work. I think we have had a very good technical dialogue with the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Supervision Authority and other public authorities. I've often met with the Minister of Finance. So, informally, we've had these talks. So what we have said in public has not come as a surprise to anyone. It is right that we talk first in private and then in the press. As I mentioned when there were negotiations on the formation of a coalition, I went there to speak. We've been communicating through other channels in the meantime. But there wasn't exactly any specific bill, this bill only came a week ago or something like that. We issued our official position on the draft law amending the State Budget Act last week. So in a number of fora we have expressed our views.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U20	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U21	Good chairman of the sitting! Good Governor of Eesti Pank! In the introduction to the annual report, you mentioned that when looking for sources of economic growth, we need to maintain our strengths, which are public finances and the highly capitalised banking sector, but there is more room for improvement in some areas of economic policy in Estonia. What do you think are the areas of economic policy that we should pay more attention to?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U22	We looked at this a little bit, but not so much at Eesti Pank. Last year, as an expert, I had the honour of attending the working group convened by the previous Prime Minister, which published its report in November last year. There were about ten people in that group who came together and offered their views. It's not the final truth, you can argue about their opinions, but there were some thoughts. To highlight one thing there, the link between innovation and research and education, etc., is certainly important. I'm sure there's a way we can fix things. If you look at the ratings used to compare different countries, the most interesting thing I have probably mentioned here is the assessment of the economy of 140 countries prepared by the World Economic Forum. There, every year, very different criteria are assessed in detail in order to understand where we are, where we are in the world. We're 20.30. present. It is widely appreciated there. Macroeconomics are in good shape, the financial sector, labour market flexibility, etc. are also quite good. The infrastructure is average, it's not a bottleneck, but it'll probably fix it a little bit. However, the area where we are more behind others is on the whole innovation side. I'm sure there's more we can do.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U23	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U24	Thank you very much. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! In fact, you have recently quite moderately criticised the budgetary strategy of the current government and perhaps the budget and borrowing of the deficit. Do you have any information on how many reserves the country has been able to raise in the last ten years and how many have been spent?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U25	For example, they are pretty well written on the slides of the presentation of the Ministry of Finance forecast. We have collected reserves just under 10% of our GDP over the last 20 and a little more years, 8 to 9%, if I remember correctly. It's more or less as much as our government debt. In recent years, it has been quite stable, as the budget has been more or less close to balance. I think the ratio has been just under 10% over the last few years. But these data can be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U26	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U27	Mr President, thank you very much. I very much agree with my colleague Marika. Indeed, government policy is negative in relation to the economy. But I wanted to ask you a purely banking question. If we analyse the circumstances, is the Centre Party currently in government a real risk or a threat?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U28	Thank you for your question. I think you understand when I say that as Governor of Eesti Pank, it would be very difficult and probably inappropriate for me to make such assessments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U29	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U30	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Governor of Eesti Pank! Several companies are raising their voices that if there is now an increase in indirect taxes and their freedom of action becomes increasingly open, then they should leave Estonia. There are further reasons why we should not stay here. What is your message to entrepreneurs, whether the Estonian economic environment is stable and gives hope that it is reasonable to develop entrepreneurship, you do not need to pack it up and look for a new output?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U31	Thank you. Once we have spoken, we have been focusing for years on general indicators, in particular on indicators of overall balance, not so much on what most affects the sustainability and stability of the economy. I do not think that we deliberately want to talk very much about whether we should tax something more and tax something less. It's actually your business. As professionals and citizens, we certainly have our own views on these issues, but as Eesti Pank as an institution, we are certainly not going to say that you tax one thing more or less. In recent months and years, we have said that there could be some sort of stability, not even stability, but predictability, so that the changes would not take place very quickly and unexpectedly. This may even pose a threat to financial stability. Let us think, for example, of the situation where the bank has granted a loan to the company, assuming that the tax environment is something like this, but then suddenly it will be changed and in a very unfavourable way. The company has taken out a loan in good faith, but it turns out he can't pay it back. That could be bad loans. The tax system cannot be expected to remain stable forever, but changes could be announced in advance as long as possible so that businesses can adapt to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U32	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U33	Honourable Chairman! For my part, Mr President, congratulations to the Bank of Estonia and to you as the head of this important institution. You pointed out that Europe's economic growth (1.6 to 1.8%) is low and its growth capacity is weak. You also said that Estonia's modest economic growth is a concern for all of us. No doubt it does. My question is that our forecasts are more or less the same as those of Europe. How do you estimate that Estonia has already achieved its potential? If we have not achieved this, I think we have not achieved it, then when should we take steps to achieve it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U34	Thank you. Perhaps the easiest thing is to look at labour market indicators. The Estonian economy is currently growing by around 1.6%, and the euro area economy is also growing by 1.6%, but we can expect that, since we are a slightly poorer country, in the long term we will still have a little more growth potential. We can see that the economy could grow a little faster if the situation of all our external partners is good, if, for example, the Finnish economy is growing by 2% and the Russian economy is growing by around 3% a year. However, we are comparing labour market indicators, for example. I said that unemployment in the euro area is one of the lowest in eight years, but it is still 9.5% and we have it close to 6%. Europe's average wage growth is currently 1.6%, and a few quarters ago it was 1.2% and 1.3%, while we are talking about 7%. So, against this background, that GDP figures are quite similar and labour markets are in a completely different state, Europe can say that the GDP gap is..2 and wages are not growing very quickly and that there is a potential to further reduce unemployment. The labour market in the euro area as a whole is slightly hypothermia, but we are looking at Estonia's figures: wage growth is 7%, unemployment is historically low and vaunts are high. It must be said that, in this area, we are already exceeding our potential.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U35	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U36	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr President of the Bank. The government has spoken, and you have also talked about the fact that a strong investment will be made on the basis of a new budget strategy. I do not think that any of us are arguing about the need for investment or whether it is reasonable, but we do know that investment is being made on current stocks and borrowing is also taking place. How much is the public sector currently investing in Estonia, if taken as a ratio to GDP or in another context? How much does the private sector invest and how sensible or productive are these public investments, which we, as if, need very much?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U37	Thank you for your question. If you look at not one year, but for example the last five or ten years, you can see that the Estonian state has invested 5% of GDP in the middle of the state budget. That's a very high figure. We may sometimes talk about a lack of investment, but if we compare our share of GDP with that of other European countries, it turns out that we have had a rather high level of investment. That's positive. While investment as a whole accounts for about a quarter of GDP, public investment is 5% and private investment 20%. So four fifths come from the private sector and one fifth from the public sector. They're both important. If public investment is growing, that is positive in itself, then we will see some object that was not before and which is now ready. If we look only at this, there will be one picture, but this same investment programme could, for example, start to put even more strain on the labour market. Somewhere in the private sector, someone may have a little less money left over, and private investment could suffer that. So when we talk about investments, we definitely need to look at the whole picture. I would not like to comment very much on the quality of individual investments. As a citizen and as an economist, I may have a sense of stomach, positive or negative when it comes to certain investments, but it is not up to me to say anything about my gut. Our competence does not include the assessment of individual investments. We hope that these investments have been properly analysed and that these are the most accurate investments that have reached the investment programme. This process could be such that the screening process is thorough.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U38	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, You spoke several times in your presentation about the risk of economic overheating. Can you tell us where the red line below which there is no danger, and what is the limit from which we can say that the economy is really heating up? Is it possible to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U40	We have said that if you focus on only one indicator, you can have a distorted image in one direction or the other. Six months ago, we talked about the fact that when we look at the labour market, we get one estimate, but when we look at GDP, we get a completely different estimate. I think we need to synthesize all this. We are all trying, in one way or another, to answer this question, which is the basis of the country's budgetary strategy: is our gap, say more broadly, more close to zero, positive or negative? This is again an estimated question, which depends on different methods. I think that maybe there are no real thresholds like this, that if we're in the range of +1 to.1 for example, there's one situation, and if we cross a certain threshold, we're going to start acting different. It's a paradigm or a smooth transition. I think that if the country's budgetary strategy is built on this structural principle, it should, to some extent, ensure a smooth adaptation. If we happen to be in a good position, the revenue will automatically be better received, then less unemployment insurance will have to be paid out, and the budget will in itself move into surplus. However, if there are bad times, we will pay a great deal of social benefits, revenue will be reduced and we will move towards deficit automatically. So, in some respects, there is not much to be needed, even if we do not make an effort or change anything, this cyclicality is guaranteed by the fact that we aim for a structural balance, no matter how difficult it is to assess it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U41	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank, congratulations to Eesti Pank as well as to your personal strength and strength! Looking at Eesti Pank's annual report for 2016, I noticed the return on your investment assets, which was 3.16% last year, while the return on financial assets was almost non-existent. Investment assets include euro area bonds, foreign currency reserves, shares. Is and how much does Eesti Pank see the need to change the composition of the portfolio in 2017 or does the current policy remain?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U43	Thank you. That is a very good question that we are constantly struggling with. We're just asking ourselves the same questions. The world is constantly changing. This strategy, which has so far been profitable, may not be the case in the future. I think that, in the current situation, if you earn 3.16%, it seems like a pretty positive result. Part of this revenue was certainly due to the fact that the markets were simply moving in this direction. If interest rates fall below and securities prices rise, we will benefit from this in the short term. The fact that we had invested long and partial in stocks helped us this year. But in the future, when trends start to change, when long-term interest rates start to rise and stock prices may not be so high, it may be the other way around. So one year's results are, in a way, based on a little too short a time. But I think all the institutions, the Treasury, the Treasury and others, are wondering how to achieve some kind of profitability in this situation. We keep thinking about our so-called norm portfolio.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U44	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U45	Thank you. Mr Hansson, you have beautifully described the factors of economic growth in Estonia, those that are necks of bottles and those that are not. None of the signs of a bottleneck being public expenditure came up, which was to be expected. But let's talk about bringing structural balance to a disadvantage. Let us recall that economic growth has been accelerating for several months. Thus, stimulating the economy not only with nominal but also with structural disadvantages is like accelerating acceleration. Do you agree with this view, which has been repeatedly expressed in this Chamber, that it does not mean living for our economy and our country at the expense of the future, but rather improves our prospects for the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U46	Thank you. We've already talked about some of these issues. If we think we're in a rather strong position right now, the latest data confirm this, then we could aim at something that's pretty close to nominal equilibrium. Moreover, the use of euro money during the changeover from one budget cycle to another has temporarily gone down, and now we expect its use to accelerate. So, in a situation where the economy is starting to pick up by itself, because the situation on foreign markets is improving, we are adding a structural deficit so that perhaps this euro money will start to move. So all positive incentives are going to come at exactly the same time. On the one hand, it seems that what is the problem, we could stimulate more, but I think it is worth wondering whether we really want to create so much cyclicality or whether we should try to keep stocks by the time we have very high unemployment and all the indicators are negative.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U47	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U48	Thank you, good Chairman. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! The European central banks, including Eesti Pank, have been buying bonds for a long time. Unlike other countries, we cannot buy our own sovereign bonds to stimulate our own economy. Do you not think that, now that the economy is more optimistic, whether or not to issue bonds for learning purposes? I'm not calling for mistakes, but I think it would be possible to issue it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U49	Thank you. That's a good question. It has been said before that we will not miss anything if we do not have these bonds. The European System of Central Banks, including Eesti Pank, has purchased Estonian bonds to some extent. Elering's bonds were between us, which we could buy. In the last year, the Finnish bank has been able to purchase Estonian Energia bonds. In cooperation, Eesti Pank and the Bank of Finland have, I think, bought these bonds for more than 150 million euros. On the one hand, it does not guarantee that this money will come to Estonia because these bonds have been bought from the secondary market. It can easily be that the owner of Elering's or Eesti Energia's bond is sitting in London and the money goes there, but if the German central bank buys bonds, this money can reach Estonia if someone has German state bonds here. So it's really hard to track this money movement. It is not ultimately primary either. What is important is that interest rates will change more widely. Let's look at our mortgage loans. They're all connected to Euribor. If Euribor falls, these loans will be cheaper. Euribor is formed in Germany, Portugal, France and elsewhere, not so much in Estonia. So this effect is still coming to us. The question is that if the Estonian state finds that it needs to borrow, and if so far it has borrowed from the European Investment Bank, could it consider using another instrument instead and taking some money from the markets. It's always a technical question, I'm sure you have to consider the pros and cons. In the meantime, I think these benefits have been more in the direction of the European Investment Bank. But it may not make sense to raise money just to put it in a bank at a negative interest rate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U50	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U51	Thank you. Mr President of the Bank. You have repeatedly mentioned that Eesti Pank was at the coalition negotiations and also made its recommendations and made proposals that should be taken by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. You have repeatedly pointed to the dangers of letting the budget deficit fall. Can you explain further why the new government has not taken into account the proposals and estimates of Eesti Pank? For example, do you consider the Ministry of Finance's forecasts that by 2021, after four years of deficit, the budget will be balanced once again if they depart fundamentally from Eesti Pank's forecasts? What may have resulted from such decisions of the current government? As a citizen, do you think that this could be short-sighted populism and try to win cheap votes at the expense of our coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U52	Thank you for your question. I think it is very difficult for us as bystanders to make such an assessment and say what motivates the government to make exactly such decisions. It is certainly our job to provide professional advice, but the government is nonetheless autonomous in decision-making, and that is the way it should be. I think that part of the reason is definitely the estimate of the GDP gap, that is the technical side again, but I cannot comment on the other motives. When we talk about forecasts, they are not very different when we look at the overall figures. I think that the difference between forecasts arises, in particular, in the GDP gap assessment, which is a slightly more complex issue. I think that there will be no major differences in the way we see GDP growth in the coming years and inflation. But the GDP gap is a very important issue. If you value it the same way, you open the doors for extra expenses, if you value it differently, then the opposite will arise. To some extent, I am concerned because, in 2021, there will be a new budget cycle for the European Union and we can expect that, at this very moment, the use of euro will start to decline again. So the moment when the budget needs to start moving close to zero from a small minus is exactly the same moment that euro money is starting to shrink, at least temporarily. So there may be a double negative impact on the Estonian economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U53	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, I have a slightly simpler question. Albert Einstein often told his fellow scientists that he could not explain science theory to his grandmother, not a serious scientist. But if you should explain to some grandmother why taking loans, spending reserves, and why Eesti Pank warns against possible developments, how would your talk sound?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U55	Thank you for your question. This is actually the hardest thing for all of us to think how to explain very complex topics, especially in central banking, in clear and understandable language. It may be difficult to understand when we are talking about more inflation. That feels weird, doesn't it? You'd think the lower it is, the better. Some things aren't always intuitive. It is not always intuitive that wages can grow at a certain point even too quickly. Perhaps, if not for Grandma, some sports enthusiast could explain it so that economic development is a marathon, it is a long-distance run, it is necessary to pick the right pace and keep it. If you start sprinting constantly in the middle of a marathon, the temporary feeling is positive, but it's not sustainable, sooner or later you'll be forced to slow down and it's not excluded that others will run past you. You don't want to jump over your shadow, and you should definitely pick a pace that doesn't create such a huge volatility.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U56	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U57	Thank you. Good waitress, I agree very much with your assessments. Indeed, we know that in four to five years, there will be fewer taxpayers and the population will be older, and European investment will be exponentially reduced. However, we are not going to prepare for this now, but we are going to artificially initiate a boom to make these scissors even larger later. Let me give you a simple example: a family who knows that he has big payments to make on Monday will not start preparing for this, but will spend its savings to party on the weekend and pick up a SMS loan. But in the context of these events, I wonder whether, a few years ago, in the light of the financial crises and budgetary crises in Europe, even stricter rules should have been put in place in order for anyone, even from outside, to be able to brake if such unsustainable policy is taking place right here in our region.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U58	Thank you for your question. I think that this has also been debated in Europe. To some extent, the European Commission's monitoring, analysis and consultation function has increased due to the lessons learned from the last crisis. So to some extent, there are now more external or independent estimates. I think how much further we go is the question of whether we want everything to be dictated to us from somewhere else. We'll have to take responsibility for our actions sooner or later. But we can do what we have done with the basic law of the state budget, so that, within our capabilities, at least try to tie our hands in such a way that we can resist short-term temptations and moments when there seems to be a lot of money and a lot of needs, and there is a temptation to start spending a lot, the same framework would start to hold us back a little. In the future, if we look back, we may be grateful that such a framework existed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U59	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of Eesti Pank, I am sorry, but my question is probably not limited to the previous financial year's report. A month and a half ago, a scandal exploded in public over possible money laundering at Danske Bank. After the intervention of the Danish and Estonian Financial Supervision Authority, the bank announced that perhaps their systems and procedures have not been sufficient to prevent money laundering. The accusation of money laundering, even such suspicion, directly threatens the credibility or credibility of the state and also of Estonian banking. Is and what role do you see on the basis of the above example of Eesti Pank, apart from the function of the Financial Supervision Authority? You are also a member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Supervision Authority because of your position.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U61	Thank you. That is a very legitimate and good question. After me, the chairman of the board of the Financial Supervision Authority will be here, and you can ask for more details on these matters. The Financial Supervision Authority and RAB, the Financial Intelligence Unit, have had primary responsibility in this area. Let's look at these estimates. There is also an institution at the Council of Europe, such as Moneyval, which assesses the national anti-money laundering framework. I think the estimates for Estonia have been quite positive. However, we cannot deny that these events that took place years ago have some impact on the state's image. I think that the Financial Supervision Authority has done its job very well, because we are talking about all this now in some form in the past. They were very good, this problem has been dealt with very resolutely. But if there is some reputational risk, if the environment in the world is such that large banks fear all kinds of fine opportunities, then they can see that there is some small market in which you can't make a lot of money, but you can lose a lot, and they don't serve this area anymore. So it is certainly the joint responsibility of Eesti Pank, the Banking Union and others to educate people. As far as possible, we need to introduce what we have done in this area. If the situation was once problematic, looking at the steps that have been taken in recent years, we can see that the situation is still better than some simple display can expect.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U62	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U63	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President of the Bank. It is not yet clear what will happen to the next funding period of the European Union. If we hurry to ratify the Rail Baltic Treaty, are we not taking too much risk, i.e. we are ratifying it, but our financial opportunities are not clear? This is still a huge investment, and there is a considerable risk here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U64	Thank you for your question. We're talking about an investment now. Again, we have not looked at the Rail Baltic project and given our assessments of how practical or sustainable it is. I think that there are other institutions in Estonia that are dealing with this issue and who are obviously competent in this matter. Of course, if there is a risk that some promises will change during the next cycle, and what is promised will no longer apply, I cannot assess whether such risks are very high or not, then it is certainly worth checking these things out.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U65	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U66	Good manager! President of the good bank, congratulations from me on the birthday of Eesti Pank! I am not asking how to explain to Grandma why deep stagnation has been achieved under the leadership of the Estonian Reform Party, but I am asking a much simpler question. How many ATMs were closed last year, especially in the country, and what is the plan for next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U67	Thank you for your question. A few years ago, when the subject was probably more topical, we tried to look at these trends. We looked at bank offices and ATMs. There was a bit faster change with the offices, even more of them closed than ATMs. I can't tell you what the future trend is. What's happened in the meantime? I know that it is currently possible to use the so-called cashback system in around 380 shops in Estonia if you can buy cash to some extent. I think it solves some of the problems, but it certainly doesn't solve all the problems. In our view, however, this is a step in the right direction. Using technology, however, in a situation where shops, offices, hospitals and schools are to be closed, we can ensure that some basic functions operate through the private sector. As mentioned, the new owners of Eesti Krediidipank use a business model where the emphasis is on providing financial services in rural areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U68	Mr Ardo Hansson, President of Eesti Pank, there are no further questions for you at the moment. Thank you for your report and your answers. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. Jürgen Ligi, Reform Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U69	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Fortunately, most of Eesti Pank's activities are beyond the reach of politicians, yet I say that I think Eesti Pank's core business is impeccable, and there is nothing to complain about. What we should be dealing with more in this Chamber is macroeconomic and fiscal policy. The bank's assessments of this area should give us serious thought, there is no blame for political interests anywhere and therefore distorted information and position. In my opinion, Eesti Pank refers very precisely to the problems why the Estonian economy, as it is loved to say, has been stagnation or where there are bottlenecks and where they are not. He also helps us to evaluate and criticize recipes. The bottleneck may even be in statistics, as it has recently been clear, when GDP was increased by more than 2% from the surface of a single year, but above all, these factors are clearly those in which the government should not put itself. The government cannot increase external demand; it cannot stimulate the Finnish and Russian economies and the European economy. In short, the government will not increase demand for our exports. That is why very many statements made from this remote control and from this side have been simply cynical in recent months. They have been misleading about the role of the government and our economy. Undoubtedly, our economic problems are sectoral (Ardo Hansson mentioned them) and relate to external factors. This concerns the short term. The bottleneck is not in inadequate concrete and asphalt, it is more or less, it needs to be dealt with further, but there is no point in revolutionaryly dealing with it. However, there are problems with innovation, not necessarily in the public sector, but in entrepreneurship, in what entrepreneurship can do, how well it can change its positions in the division of labour. Again, the government's answer to this question is quite different from concrete, asphalt and structural minus. When we have heard the answers of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance from this remote control, they have all talked about how we are going to get the economy going. There's no kick-start effect. If the economy is already accelerating, the nominal minus acceleration will mean speeding up, which is a risk and will no doubt require criticism, especially in circumstances where euro money is flowing on top and, in a few years' time, it will flow away again. Natural-scale, either natural, but spontaneous, incentive exists anyway, spending the European budget is much more unstable, but creating a nominal minus, which the government proudly does, is damaging the economy; it is, of course, creating a structural minus; it is indeed accelerating the acceleration of acceleration. The Prime Minister, who says he's getting the economy going and, as he's repeatedly claimed, he's just lying. Similarly, when giving similar signals or answers, although even more confusing, the Minister of Finance is lying. In the last interview, the Minister of Finance, as the case may be, said that yes, Mr Hansson was met in November during the coalition negotiations. Today we have confirmation that Mr Hansson has been heard once and that it has ended. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U70	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U71	Other experts have complained (I have still spoken to a couple) identically that, yes, they were allowed to speak, but there it remained. They ransacked their shoulders: glad to be called, but now what's next? No follow-up, these expert committees were disbanded and no further consultation was sought in the negotiations. They were tolerated for the cameras and reported to have been listened to. Now the Minister of Finance is somewhere in the "Actual Camera" studio, and when specifically asked about the complaints of the Budget Council and Eesti Pank, he says that he and Mr Hansson met during the coalition negotiations. Again, essentially wrong, because what Ardo Hansson said there, and what the government has done, is undoubtedly not the same. Of course, we must not create too much political embarrassment for Eesti Pank. Let's just say we're grateful that we've been spoken to, and we're just using the opportunity to interpret politics to use this information, which I did with great force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U72	Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U73	Honourable President! Respectable Governor of Eesti Pank! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Some things in this important hall are hard to get used to even after you've worked here for two years. This is because the debate on such an important item, despite such a dignified waitress, is half empty, especially with few coalition politicians here. There may, of course, be several reasons for this. One of them is that Estonia's recent history is not easily known and can not assess the role of the current Governor of Eesti Pank in the good performance of the Estonian state. The Free Party appreciates this and is grateful for it. The Free Party is also grateful for today's presentation, which was once again clear and understandable. There is still only one question, which was raised a few weeks ago when the Governor of Eesti Pank replied to the question of the members of the Free Party Group: why does the Government of the Republic not accept this clear, simple, understandable and, in my opinion, completely unambiguous message, why is it not wanted to hear this message? The Eesti Pank Act already states that Eesti Pank will advise the government on economic policy issues. Why this counsel is not taken, why it is not wanted, is completely incomprehensible. In our group's opinion, Eesti Pank's conservative, calm and balanced approach to Estonian finances is very sympathetic and understandable. From today's presentation, I also particularly highlight the section where the Governor of Eesti Pank spoke about innovation. The Free Party Group has always been concerned about the fact that our governments do not appreciate the importance of R &amp; D. Research and development is not a priority for this government. The government has acknowledged that it is barely able to maintain the current level, but no increase in innovation is planned. This is not considered important. There is probably no clear political benefit of investing in research and development because the results of this process are somewhere in the tens of years, they are not evident in the 2019 Riigikogu elections. Consequently, our only delicate complaint to the Governor of Eesti Pank could sound like this: more powerful means must be found to bring our message to the government. When you talk to a kid in Shakespeare's sonnet, you don't understand. You have to look for a language of communication that a brat can understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U74	Mikhail Stalnukhin, Estonian Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U75	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, For the Steinogram, I have to say that when the previous speaker complained that the hall was half empty, there were 26 people in the Chamber and the coalition was dominated, by the way: there were 14 people from the coalition and 12 from the opposition. That's the kind of thing you need to be specific about. Now let's get down to business. No, not straight to the point, I'll tell you a story first. It was years ago. I was a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and we were invited to an event in room 332 where authoritative economic people were to come and tell us about what ended last year. We were provided with a summary of these calls. Since this happened much earlier, I put these materials on the shelf, where all these maps were standing in a row. Somehow, when I went to this event, I took the wrong folder, and suddenly I found out there that the charts and charts on the screen didn't coincide with those on my papers, and they didn't match at all. Then I started to look more closely and it turned out that I had taken the prognosis. The prognosis that had been made a year ago, and the conclusion that was made later, did not coincide absolutely. When I asked how this was even possible, I was told that the prognosis was an expert opinion and that something was happening all the time in the world. I'm gonna get out of here that there's always someone who's scared. I was the one who was afraid when we joined the European Union. I admit now that I was wrong in economic terms, because my region and my city have received a great deal from the European Union, we would never have achieved all of this with our own and the strength of the country, so we have won enormously economically in any case. The second major event was the changeover to the euro. Then it was also a fifty-fifty, in half, almost as in the case of the European Union, a few percent was the difference. The argument, let's remember, was funny: there's gonna be an Australian, see our money, and it's gonna scare him so much, he's gonna run away. That's exactly what a colleague in the hall said. How do you believe that? At the moment, we realise that although the euro increased inflation, it certainly supported the economy, and now I can't imagine how it could be any different. In the same way, the current budgetary strategy has very ambitious objectives. Yes, this government is planning GDP 2018. In 2010, this government wants to bring the average wage to EUR 1 500. It is said here that we have employment problems. But how do you get people back from abroad if you keep your salary artificially low? That's not possible. This government is planning huge investments. And what's wrong with that? Our plus is that over the years, the state has invested 2.3 billion in local governments. What's the negative on that? So this process that one does and the other one fears is actually the right division of labour, so it has always been. I thank the Governor of Eesti Pank, who has given his opinion. We now know what these dangers are, and we have enough time to learn to avoid them. We have very ambitious objectives, they are well written in the government's budget strategy, we are working to achieve them. If anyone is a little suspicious of them, we'll argue and see what we can achieve. I know one thing for sure: I can't stand still. This world is like a big swamp: if you stop, you drown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U76	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Eesti Pank's annual report for 2016 has been discussed by us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U77	Today's fourth item is the Annual Report 2016 of the Financial Supervision Authority. Allow me to present the procedure for dealing with this item. First, the presentation by Kilvar Kessler, Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, lasts up to 20 minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu can also ask an oral question to the rapporteur here. Following negotiations with representatives of the political groups. Now I ask for a chair of speech from Kilvar Kessler, Chairman of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U78	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! In conducting the Financial Supervision Act, we submitted the annual report of the inspection to the Riigikogu. It deals with the most important events, trends and actions in the Estonian financial market and financial supervision in 2016. A year ago, on May 3, I stood before you and reported on 2015. We're used to being reported to us in the inspection. This is done by subjects of financial supervision. Today is the time for the Financial Supervision Authority to report to the Riigikogu and thus to the entire people. This report is an annual highlight of our work: we will describe our activities and give an overview of the situation in the financial market, and we will also receive valuable feedback from you. When I took over the leadership of the Financial Supervision Authority, my team faced a number of complex problems. We had a stalemate bank, Eesti Krediidipank, and serious risks had accumulated in the field of prevention of money laundering. We were confused about the supervision of fast-lending companies and perhaps even the unwillingness to deal with it. Moreover, surveillance was far removed from the alert and in a good way from the innovative people on the market. Two pillars of the euro area banking union were being completed in Europe: the SSM banking supervision system and the SRM crisis resolution system. Very important institutions. The optimal integration and the creation and manning of a resolution function in the Financial Supervision Authority were also difficult tasks. Alongside this, the quality of supervision had to be maintained and improved, strengths maintained and developed, and weaknesses removed. It was necessary to inject enthusiasm into their employees and direct them to deal with complex issues of high quality, not just to deal with them, but to deal with them in a high-quality way. Nature, however, takes a certain natural time to get results. The apple cannot mature immediately and the butterfly undergoes several transformations over time. In the same way, the Financial Supervision Authority had been faced with the resolution of its tasks. The problem of the Patiatus bank, Eesti Krediidipank, was solved in such a way that the bank now has a good and strong Estonian owner, the business conglomerate Coop, formerly known as ETK. The old management of the credit institution has been replaced by a new one and is working on a new strategy. It is easy and good to say here, but the process of achieving it was tense, it required cooperation and mutual trust from everyone. Sometimes it feels good to say that a fine should be imposed or one or another measure taken, but in real life, they require a proper legal jeweller's job in the financial sector. We have the capacity for such jeweler work. In certain cases, it is necessary and reasonable to implement the rule of law, but in other cases, if the problem can be solved by a commercial method, i.e. good, we prefer it in the interests of financial stability and depositors. When it comes to the prevention of money laundering, it is necessary to begin by clarifying what money laundering is and what role the Financial Supervision Authority plays in preventing it. Money laundering is the concealment or conversion of criminal money into legal money. Such processes do not have a stamp in the bud that they are money laundering. The police and the prosecutor's office dealt with the detection of money laundering in the event of a specific suspicion and prosecution. The task of the Financial Supervision Authority is to ensure that the Estonian financial sector is not exploited for criminal purposes. In the area of money laundering prevention, of course, under the law, we check on a risk-based basis that banks and other financial intermediaries have sufficiently high barriers in the organisations and that they have good controls to distinguish the grains from the chuckles. I would point out that money laundering processes do not have a stamp in the bud, but the banks must have reasonable doubts and possible initial detection mechanisms, even if the money that has proved suspicious comes from banks in other countries of the European Union. The Financial Supervision Authority's work in preventing money laundering is characterised by the following facts: We carried out three on-the-spot checks and 37 remote checks to prevent money laundering in 2016. Cooperation with partner organisations was carried out both in Estonia and across borders, analyses were carried out and four information days were organised for market participants. The Financial Supervision Authority issued an injunction to a credit institution and one of the paying agencies had to submit an action plan. One of the important markers of money laundering risk is the share of non-residents in all clients. At the end of 2014, non-resident deposits amounted to 19% of all deposits, compared to 13% at the end of 2016. Customers from offshore areas accounted for 8.5% of all customers in 2014, compared to 4.3% in 2016. As we conclude, we have made a good effort here, and this work will continue. We plan to bring together a round table with our banks, ICT companies and others, where we will deal with processes and systems that will enable banks to better monitor their accounts even after the customer is taken on board. The theme is correspondent banking. In his presentation to the Riigikogu of 3 May 2016, the speaker described its nature and the risks associated with it. All of this applies now. The issue of correspondent banking is not only an Estonian-centred one, it is a global issue, which has recently been analysed by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Correspondent banking is a complex contractual relationship in which participants mutually impose terms and conditions on each other based on their own risk profile. The changing environment, such as the huge penalties for violations of international financial sanctions resulting from weak controls of foreign banks, will undoubtedly have a major impact on the content of the terms and conditions of correspondent relationships and the risk appetite of the parties. Similarly, a local bank governed by the law may not fulfil the contractual conditions applicable to certain correspondent relationships. Public supervision, which controls compliance with the law, has only an indirect link, if any, with the disruption of correspondent relationships. Banks themselves are the negotiators of correspondent relationships and the reason for the interruption (if any). The Financial Supervision Authority is also concerned about the risk of loss of correspondent relationships. We do not, as we see it, remain barely speaking, but are planning concrete action in this area. In addition to thinning air on the Estonian financial market, we feel that we should not be ashamed to talk about our progress to good partners here in Europe and, for example, beyond the ocean. This can help our market participants in the area of correspondent relationships, when the market itself, if necessary in helping with financial supervision, has reached an appropriate position. The Creditors and Credit Intermediaries Act (KAVS) is now fully implemented. We have 55 new creditors and brokers, apart from 12 creditors linked to banks. Their total loan portfolio in consumption loans at the end of last year was 741 million euros, of which only 166 million were non-bank creditors' portfolios. By comparison, the banks' total loan portfolio in consumption loans amounts to EUR 628 million and the banks' total loan portfolio to EUR 18 billion. The company of the creditors is written. There are leasing companies belonging to banking groups, communication companies offering back-payments, as well as classic high-speed credit offices. At this stage of the implementation of the KAVS, we have moved towards routine risk-based monitoring. On-the-spot checks by certain major high-speed credit offices do not inspire excessive optimism. Hundreds of pages can be summarised as follows: from time to time, the requirement to charge interest is violated and internal order either does not correspond to real life or, on the contrary, real life does not correspond to internal order. Both are a problem for financial supervision. Our initial observations as an impartial expert on the possible shortcomings of the KAVS are also emerging from this work. As an attractive topic, we have noted that risks in the area of crowdfunding have increased. Crowdfunding will allow financing of projects, initiatives and consumer wishes that have not always been met by existing financing solutions. This, however, means risks, the existence and the potential nature of which investors must be able to understand at source. We have made proposals for optimal regulation in this area and also for opening up the market in the European Union. However, at first, there was no reply to the banner of crowdfunding platforms, but after a little analysis, market participants are also finding that certain additional regulation can still be of general interest and positive. We also see that non-supervised savings and loan cooperatives are very strongly promoting high-interest deposit facilities. People do not know the difference between these cooperatives and banks, especially when the first offer a much more favourable price. Here is the point of whether the regulation of the activities of savings and loan cooperatives should be maintained or made more comprehensive and, if amended, on what issues, and whether they should be subject to public financial supervision. More about joint action. The Financial Supervision Authority authorised a profit-making cooperative to be owned by the future pension fund manager. This must increase competition during the second pillar pension accumulation phase. The future has itself announced that the funds it manages will be invested in indexes. A number of other pension fund managers have also launched index-investing funds. Such a fund is characterised by a passive nature in investment activities: this means that unit-holders have the opportunity to keep up with the move of the market as a whole, but the reaction to and the ability to earn from the change in the market situation has disappeared. Skills for passive asset management are more standard than can be said to be the case, so the service is also at a lower cost, at a lower price. In terms of diversifying the choice of services, filling the gap is welcome. Nevertheless, a future pensioner should not let himself be crazed by the fact that, in one way or another, asset management has a better result guarantee in front of another. There are no such guarantees in the area of investment. In Estonia, technological progress has led to the emergence of niche entrepreneurs who see opportunities and unmet demand on the financial market. 43 start-ups related to Estonia have associated themselves with financial services in a way or in a work or called themselves fintech. These fintech companies are mostly small and sometimes they are intimidated by the regulation and supervision of financial markets in their complexity. To overcome such fears, in 2016 we set up a working group on financial innovation. The main tasks of the group are to establish a permanent and operational contact and exchange of information with Estonian innovative financial technology companies and to collect and analyse information on legal bottlenecks in the development, development and implementation of innovative financial technology. During the work group's activities so far, 15 financial technology companies have been consulted or otherwise in direct contact with them. The content of contacts is characterised by the following keywords: block-chain technology, virtual currencies, identification and authentication of persons without being present in the same place, the jurisdiction of single currency and digital services. Our working group is also planning to make its activities more visible in the virtual world and to allow for dialogue online, via electronic channels, as one of the first, if not the first, of the European financial supervisory authorities. We have also moved closer to people in terms of consumer education. Our lectures on the financial market and services are to be heard from Paide and Viljandi. By the way, I remember that at the end of last year we held the Financial Supervision Authority (FSA) in history, we will have 15 years of the first family day at the Eesti Pank Museum this year. I've never seen as many people there as this Saturday day. There were many children, but at least as important is that there were many older people among the audience. I kind of remember that. I lectured on money and banks. There were a lot of pensioners in the hall. They listened politely to my report or lecture. Afterward, a pensioner began to ask that he had the coffin money and where to place it, either there or there. We started discussing it, and, you know, this auditorium finally opened up. At first, they looked at the young man's talk as complicated as they were, but in the end the atmosphere became so good and warm, people went off, and there was a very powerful applause. Such things also give some sense to the relatively dry financial supervision work, so in any case we will continue to organise these family days. We also prepared a new financial assistance in 2016 because the first edition from 2011 had become obsolete. The additional print found a warmer reception than we expected. Many school teachers have found that a book written in plain language can be used as a learning tool. The new financial aids have now reached 50 schools, and 500 copies have also been given to the Estonian Savings Library for distribution to local libraries. The aim is to distribute financial assistance to as many schools as possible. Finally, a few words about the capital strength of our financial market. Estonia has a strong financial sector that creates good conditions for economic growth. In the case of important financial intermediaries in Estonia, we cannot talk about a weak balance sheet. The figures in our financial sector, especially in banking, point to a much better quality than the European average. There is no burden of the past in the form of bad assets, a lack of capitalisation and low profitability, which unreasonably restricts financial intermediaries' ability to play their role well in society. The Financial Supervision Authority, including in cooperation with the European Central Bank, will continue to maintain financial stability by requiring financial intermediaries to have adequate capital buffers and to develop transparent and operational liquidity solutions. In addition, we will continue to ensure that our financial intermediaries are managed by honest people, that internal control systems work better and that business sustainability is thought out and tested. We are integrated into the euro area banking supervision system with SSM and the resolution system with SRM. The euro area deposit protection system EDIS is coming to an end. I believe that the Financial Supervision Authority is the most broadly and deeply integrated Estonian institution with the European Union institutions, which also represents a healthy conservative approach to the financial market on the one hand and is open to controlled innovation and technological progress on the other. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The central role of the Financial Supervision Authority is to maintain financial stability and to ensure the fair and transparent functioning of financial markets as a whole. The 2016 Annual Book of the Financial Supervision Authority, made available to you, describes the performance of these tasks in 2016, the operation of the Financial Supervision Authority in 15. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U79	The first question to the rapporteur is put by Mr Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U80	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good performer! I got a scratch on my ear when you stopped at the savings loan unions for a moment. I thought you thought they should be more controlled. In my opinion, however, these are one of the most honest financial institutions in Estonia at all. At the same time, you were left out of your control with the big money laundering related to Moldova and Russia and amounting to hundreds of millions of dollars. But it's a good thing you're interested in savings loan unions. But why did Tallinn's cooperative bank not open this year? You have brought very naive reasons, such as Edgar Savisaar being the so-called black sheep of Tallinn City Government, he has not been enlightened and we do not know what kind of person he is. In my opinion, Savisaar is one of the most translucent personalities in Estonia at all. What motives did you oppose this bank, and why do you not support the cooperative movement?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U81	Thank you! Sharing movement, as well as other movements, we support within the limits of our competence and in accordance with the law. As regards the procedure for the authorisation of the Estonian Cooperative Bank, on which, I understood, the question was meant, this process must be described more broadly. First, who decides what and what will be assessed when granting an authorisation to a credit institution, including the type of cooperative that the cooperative wishes to establish? From 4 November 2014, these decisions fall under the exclusive competence of the European Central Bank. From that date, a system designated by the abbreviation SSM has been put into effect. This means that, in the euro area, the European Central Bank and banking supervisors have set up a banking supervision system, decisions to place banks on the market, i.e. to authorise and authorise them, are only justified to do so by the European Central Bank. However, for example, the authorisation process takes place in cooperation with the "co-decision procedure" of the local supervisory authority, which synthesizes the necessary information in cooperation with its partners in Frankfurt and, if necessary, takes a decision. How will this procedure be completed? Basically, there are four options. The first is that the authorisation is granted, the second is that the authorisation is refused, the third is that the applicant who applies for the authorisation of a bank withdraws the application, and the fourth is that the licence holder decides to return the material to the applicant, because he is unable to consider the matter in substance, since then to decide. What information is required is harmonised across the European Union, first of all there is a first layer and, secondly, within the SSM, it is even more precise in the euro area what information positions are needed to consider authorisation. In the case of the Estonian Cooperative Bank, it was not possible to obtain from the applicant all the necessary positions and all the information, so it was not possible to evaluate certain issues in substance and we were forced to return the application to the applicant.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U82	Please, Anne Sulling!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You mention in your yearbook that Estonia's financial stability is influenced by the declining profitability of companies. Can and how do you think the country could contribute to changing this trend?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U84	Thank you! The role you referred to in our Annual Report refers to the Financial Stability Review of Eesti Pank, which points out that the declining profitability of companies poses risks to financial stability. How can the Financial Supervision Authority increase or reduce the profitability of companies? It's really like it's not in our jurisdiction. We are, by law, working to ensure that the financial system is stable and functions honestly and transparently. From 2015 on, we must also prevent banking crises and when they come, God forbid! I'm gonna have to work them out.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U85	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U86	Thank you. Mr Kessler, it would be nice if you had time for me not to respond to Heimar Leng's claim that there are honest savings and loan unions and not so honest banks. Maybe you're implying a little bit about their business model, whether it's really that attractive every time. But my question is about the situation of the financial market and is directly related to the joint bank you mentioned, it was then the joint bank of Estonia or what it was called, which, in spite of criminal matters, wants to be authorised. Is there a financial market failure or problem that you think would justify risking public money, is there a lack of competition or any other problem that public money should go to risk?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U87	Thank you very much. The SSM, including the Financial Supervision Authority, operates on the basis of and on the basis of the law when granting authorisation to banks. These standards are harmonised at EU level. These harmonised standards do not state whether the applicant must be a private person, a public body or any other person, i.e. there is no distinction as to the origin of the so-called capital. In summary, it is not up to the financial supervision to decide whether a bank may be set up by a State, a local government, a company or a non-profit organisation. If the founder complies with the requirements of the law, then financial supervision or anyone who is competent to do so will take that decision in accordance with the requirements of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U88	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Kessler! In addition to this big ($1.6 billion) money laundering history in Danske Bank, the Estonian press has also talked about the corruption story of Luca Volonté when money from Azerbaijan moved through the same bank, which bought votes at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to reject a resolution. The order of magnitude was smaller, 2.17 million dollars (or EUR, I might be wrong), but it was a painful and very important story of political corruption on an international scale. As this case is on your desk, I ask you how much you are prepared to comment on its facts and what to do to prevent banks operating in Estonia from entering the international media due to such incidents.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U90	Thank you very much. Let me briefly explain what financial supervision does to prevent money laundering. Non-money laundering issues are also harmonised in the European Union. The Third Anti-Money Laundering Directive is currently in force, and a draft law transposing the Fourth Money Laundering Directive will soon come before you. In general terms, this directive imposes requirements on financial intermediaries on how they have to build their own organisation, so that the barriers in it are sufficiently high, and systems, people and processes can, as I said before, distinguish steels from hooters, i.e. entanglers, i. criminal money. In Estonia, it has been decided by law that the Financial Supervision Authority will supervise these aspects of financial intermediaries, including banks. When the Financial Supervision Authority supervises, it does not necessarily examine each individual transaction and does not examine the circumstances in this context. Money laundering as such is a crime with specific elements. They are certified by the law enforcement authorities of the prosecutor's office and the police. However, if we go to a financial intermediary that is part of our supervision and do not receive credible answers or find in any other way that the financial intermediary does not have adequate controls, barriers, then we will enter into a supervisory dialogue. If this doesn't work, we're going to apply some kind of legal instrument to the point that we're prohibiting some kind of business or recommending changes in management, in certain cases we're going to force the financial intermediary to do so. That's how we do it. Each of the specific names you mentioned in a single name we do not necessarily identify. The other way around, if we feel that there may have been money laundering there, we will, of course, report it to our partners in the Financial Intelligence Unit. What can we do to prevent our banks from doing such things? I mentioned earlier that one of these markers of money laundering risk is the proportion of non-resident clients, which is an internationally accepted marker. I also said that the share of non-residents in Estonia has decreased since 2014. In 2014, we saw that certain market participants had a pretty high risk of money laundering, and we started to tackle this problem, let's say, in cooperation with market participants. The case you mentioned and the Danske Bank involved were then, in 2014, in our risk matrix No 1. Danske Bank is currently no longer active in this business for non-residents. It's as simple as that. We also know other banks that review their client portfolios and quite vigorously cleanse them of non-resident customers. So our very clear and unambiguous interest in the Financial Supervision Authority is to reduce the proportion of non-residents, such as grey and black non-residents in the banking sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U91	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! You also mentioned the transposition of the Money Laundering Directive. I made sure that this bill was submitted to the government yesterday. The Riigikogu will have five working weeks before the summer, which is why the procedure will, of course, be very quick. It's a complicated bill, I know. But the Riigikogu recently adopted amendments to the Securities Market Act. Your proposals on the conduct of these procedures were not particularly taken into account there. How's the anti-money laundering law? There was also the issue of fines. This bill came into the government yesterday, according to me. Has your proposals been taken into account there, especially in the case of fines?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U93	Thank you very much. It was a complex matter. I'm trying to get it out somewhere. There is one thing to be mentioned about the Securities and Markets Act and the penal apparatus in the Securities and Markets Act. Since 1 July last year, most securities rules, yes, can be said to relate to market abuse, have been harmonised with a directly applicable legislation in the European Union, and Estonian law is relatively secondary here. So we believe that we are still doing quite well in this area of securities. As far as the penitentiary apparatus is concerned, we have, me and my predecessors, pointed out to you on quite a number of occasions that there are certain shortcomings in Estonia. Is this an existential problem in financial supervision? Some of it is and some of it isn't. We'd really like to have the penitentiary equipment stronger. We have also proposed on the new version of the Anti-Money Laundering Act that Estonia should take over its penitentiary apparatus or its fine apparatus in a harmonised manner, as the European Union envisages. But the other way around, I believe that a pretty strong deterrent to market participants is also when we ban their business, either as a whole or in certain business lines, or we make them change management. So far, we have acted in the field of combating money laundering without effective sanctioning devices. I would appreciate it if the sanctioning devices were taken over as foreseen in the directive, and I believe that this will be done. I believe that this adds speed to what the previous questioner asked about, that the Estonian financial market is being made a little bit, let's say, cleaner.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U94	Please, Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U95	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you explained quite thoroughly what the Financial Supervision Authority may and must not disclose, and you referred to § 54 of the Financial Supervision Authority Act. After our discussion there, I read this long paragraph, and I did not understand it a bit. Paragraph 5 states that an inspection shall have the right to disclose, in whole or in part, certain decisions or administrative acts where this is necessary for the protection of investors, customers or the public. Can you explain once again in which cases the public will have to wait for the results of the investigative press work and when it could receive information directly from the Financial Supervision Authority?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U96	Thank you very much. First observation regarding § 54 of the Financial Supervision Authority Act or FIS. In general, it is based once again on the harmonised law of the European Union, which has recently started a little bit, say, harali, i.e. there are different approaches to the publication of the results of financial supervision in the various branches of the financial sector. By addressing this issue with the previous question, I say that the fourth directive on the prevention of money laundering provides for the approach that has been taken: every administrative act that we give in the field of the prevention of money laundering concerning our subject of supervision is public unless we decide otherwise. At present, § 54 of the FIS still contains a general rule of general rule, which is likely to continue to be the general rule, that everything is non-public unless we decide otherwise. Why is that? The root reason is that years ago, it can soon be said that ten years ago, when the financial crisis was at its peak, there was a situation where a large bank contacted us and said that people would take out the Estonian kroon a day, then there was about one billion kroons. They said they had buffers for a while, but after a while they need help, maybe from the Swedish mother bank. We took note of this, we were in contact with our Swedish colleagues, so-called crisis mechanisms started, we also made certain decisions to put bank controls in place, daily reporting started, etc. If it had all been public, then, I think, people would have thought, "Damn it! A billion dollars are taken out of this bank every day. What am I waiting for? " It would have created a snowball effect, and a bank that was not insolvent would have quickly become insolvent. That's why this Article 54 is what it is. The reason is not that there is something they want to hide from someone in any way, but that it is necessary to manage certain risks. There are areas (the area of securities market law is one, and the other is the same subject of combating money laundering), where I believe that there could be more openness. Of course! After all, the preliminary history of the Danske Bank case was probably referred to by the question of the fact that this framework is slightly different in Denmark. Denmark's supervision published its results, which happened almost a year ago, and we also published our results in coordination with the Danes, after having negotiated them. Later came a specific incident called "Laundroma." It is a good thing that such things are spoken of, but as I said before, we are not investigating individual money laundering cases or transactions, but we are looking at whether there are sufficient controls in the bank. This bank did not have sufficient controls. By now, this bank has shut down this business.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U97	Please, Kersti Sarapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The main revenue of the Financial Supervision Authority according to your yearbook is supervisory fees. If we compare 2015 and 2016, we will see that they have increased by a third. Can you explain why that is?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U99	Thank you! You always have very accounting questions, I know that. This anomaly is the root of the year 2014 when a European Union regulation was adopted, according to which the same euro area banking supervision took place from 4 November. The same EU regulation provides that before significant banks are transferred to the jurisdiction of the European euro area banking supervision, they must carry out a thorough asset assessment and stress test. That was a pretty expensive exercise. For this reason, we collected from the market, according to forecasts, we did not know exactly what the price was in advance; we did so under the supervisory fee scheme provided for in the Financial Supervision Authority Act. We did a public procurement. By the way, we were one of the few financial supervision in the euro area that was supposed to be in public procurement. It was actually positive. Why? Thanks to public procurement, we were able to order an asset quality assessment at a significantly lower price, but since the banks had already paid the money, we had a very large reserve. In 2015, we took less money from the banks. It's a little anomalous. If you look at it on a longer line, you can see that this sequence of numbers is going down by 2015 because the banks had already paid the money in advance last year. So in 2016 there was more or less the right amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U100	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm coming back to the savings loan companies. Recently, it has been heard that the Financial Supervision Authority also wishes to control savings and loan cooperatives. I think you agree with me that these so-called old-school savings and loan cooperatives are still working honestly, without causing any problems. Rather, the issue is that the name of savings and loan cooperatives also includes those financial companies that carry riskier and create problems in the financial market. We have also heard that, rather, there is a problem with the activities and miscarriages of auditors. Savings and loan cooperatives now face higher liabilities and thus higher costs. Should we not look at these companies completely separately? However, these so-called supervisory fees are concentrated in the hands of the Financial Supervision Authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U102	Thank you! I would like to start by saying that our assessment of the situation is not so crystallised that we can say that yes, they should be monitored. We have simply raised the question of whether their activities should be further regulated and monitored, which does not mean that this should be done. We have done initial analyses, usually followed by dialogue with savings and loan cooperatives. In the end, of course, it will be here when it arrives and there will be a final truth in the form of a law. We do not now believe that it is absolutely necessary and under any circumstances to further regulate and monitor the activities of savings and loan cooperatives. The assets of savings and loan cooperatives are still relatively small. However, we are seeing a certain lack of transparency in crowdfunding platforms, which should be regulated more precisely. We made a specific proposal to the Ministry of Finance in August 2016. Here the accent is slightly different: savings and loan cooperatives come after crowdfunding platforms, we think that crowdfunding platforms are even more of a reputational risk on the financial market than savings and loan cooperatives. Since savings and loan cooperatives are not under our supervision, I do not like to speculate on this issue because I do not know exactly who they are so that I can tell you which are the bad guys and which are the good guys. Having been in dialogue with the various parties involved, I have realised that there are really very different. You mentioned older or more mature ones in the market and newer ones, who might also finance fast-lenders a little. It seems that there are different segments and groups. If you look to the future, if you regulate at all, you probably have to take this into account. But once again, we have this notion that we definitely have to do this, at this stage, we do not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U103	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U104	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for this interesting report. Thank you in particular for the fact that there are now so many pictures of nice ladies on our tables that, along with any other report, will not appear on our tables. But let's get concrete. I will read you a letter from a South-Estonian entrepreneur: 'Your controlled institution, Bank N, has robbed a large amount of money from our account and forged a client's signature. However, the inspection is powerless, it cannot request original documents from the bank and carry out expert analyses. Attorneys-at-Law are afraid to oppose the bank, but the prosecutor writes that this is an institution whose prosecution is excluded under the Penal Code. ' Who must protect consumers from the plight of banks, is it really the Financial Supervision Authority that is actually funded by these same banks?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U105	Thank you very much for your question. First of all, we need to unravel what the Financial Supervision Authority is doing. Firstly, the consumer complaints that have been made to us are a very valuable input for us. On the basis of these, we can see whether and where banks or other financial intermediaries under our supervision have some risks, what kind of risks they are and what kind of shortcomings are possible. The Financial Supervision Authority is not an institution that settles a specific dispute between a client and a bank. There is a court and Consumer Protection Board in Estonia for this purpose. The matter with the Consumer Protection Board is when it comes to consumers. When it comes to a company, it is not the Consumer Protection Board, but when it comes to a consumer, it has the possibility and right to contact the Consumer Protection Board, which, under consumer protection law, can resolve individual differences. Once again, if it doesn't work for some reason, then you can turn to the court. How do we protect consumers? As has been said, consumer complaints are one of the inputs to our analysis process. If we see a number of identical complaints being made about some financial intermediaries at some point in time, it is a risk marker for us that there is a risk in this organisation and that nothing is quite the way it should be. Then we will carry out an on-the-spot check and see if this risk is real and whether the suspicion we have is justified or not. To this end, we will see if there are the processes and systems that the laws require and if there are enough people responsible for this. If, for example, the conduct of a banking organisation is not what the law requires, we will, in a good way, adjust it in dialogue with the bank, but in a bad case, we need to introduce some legal instruments to him to correct his behaviour. If the bank corrects its behaviour, it is not only the one consumer who sent us the complaint that wins it, but everyone who has been misbehaved by the bank. This is the way we act, we do not resolve isolated issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U106	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Kessler! I must return to my question last year. I'm looking at your luxurious yearbook with excellent photos. What can't I still find here? I can't find the printery, the publisher, or the language editor's name. The only improvement is that there is an ISSN number. Why does the Honorable Financial Inspectorate allow himself to have such a luxurious yearbook with such a lack of technical data? I just don't understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U108	Thank you! Yeah, that's right, we remembered the ISSN, and it's here. Can't get everything so fast. With regard to other circumstances, copyright and editors, all of this is collective, i.e. the Financial Supervision Authority, and we do not put these things here. A printing house might really be able to write down, but why should we advertise to a printing house? Let's not advertise! We signed up for the ISSN, and it's here. As far as the report itself is concerned, we have the same resource allocated every year, we have not put any more money here, rather we have found more suitable cooperation partners. There was a clue to the pictures. Look, we want to show that we are people, we do deal with numbers and other things like that, but ultimately, those who deal with them are people, they have their own worries and joys, etc. That's why this publication is like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U109	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In answering one of my fellow Members' questions, you said that it is not the custom in Europe to make an assessment of who is the founder of the bank, so you will not interfere in this situation. But is what is going on with the cooperative bank in Tallinn related to what you have repeatedly said that, if necessary, you will make an injunction in order to change management? Is the aura that's around all this activity involved? The second part of the question refers to savings and loan cooperatives, whose objectives appear to be very humane, but are high-speed credit offices that can be carried out under their cover also your interest or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U111	Thank you! The Estonian Cooperative Bank is a profit and loss association that applied for a credit institution's license from us, more specifically through us from SSM. The City of Tallinn has the largest share of capital in the Estonian Cooperative Bank. We were forced to return the application for the authorisation of the credit institution because we were unable to obtain from the Estonian Cooperative Bank, as the applicant, all the information necessary for the decision required by the law. We can't stop asking for information and make decisions just by looking at the ceiling. The European Central Bank cannot do that either. That was the answer to the first question. The cooperative bank had never been able to become an active bank. The issue of savings and loan cooperatives, as I said, needs to be dealt with in a more precise way. We think there's a risk. This is what we want to say at this stage to the public, to you and to our important partners. If we have a more accurate picture of savings loan cooperatives, we will go on and see if they should be regulated or not. I'd say one thing here, though. That's what I said to people on that same family day who listened to me and had no idea about it. Deposits held in a savings loan cooperative The Guarantee Fund does not guarantee. If the Guarantee Fund guarantees deposits in banks up to EUR 100000, it does not guarantee deposits in savings and loan cooperatives. People don't get it. They believe that they are all the same banks. Savings and Loan Associations really offer good interest rates. Of course, there's always a risk of income, no free lunches. What I'm saying is that deposits in savings loan cooperatives are not guaranteed by the Guarantee Fund. I think there is some kind of "material" for further analysis of whether regulation or supervision is needed, but I am not saying here any final view that yes, it is necessary, or no, it is not necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U112	Erki Savisaar.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, As you yourself said from this remote, you know nothing about the cooperative movement. You have to agree, because that's what it really looks like. You have said that you could not examine the cooperative bank's application because it was not possible to check the background of a significant shareholder. The financial capacity of the city of Tallinn has a very good background. It's internationally rated A2. There are few local governments with that rating. Secondly, in the cooperative movement, all members are equal. If there are 200 apartments in the building management company and one owner golds his apartment, this does not give him more voting rights at the general meeting, he still has one vote out of 200. On what basis do you say that Tallinn's vote in the cooperative bank is somehow more important than the vote of the other 200 members?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U114	Thanks! From the cooperative movement as such, I dare say, I know so much how much I know about it as a human being, no more, no less. As regards our professional financial supervision activities, I would point out that the large owner of Eesti Krediidipank is the commercial cooperative Coop and also the owner of one new pension fund manager is the profit and loss association Tuiva. As far as the Estonian Cooperative Bank is concerned, the rules for assessing the owner of a significant participation are based on European Union law. More specifically, the European Union's law is one directly applicable regulation, I do not remember its number, unfortunately, I suggest that it is 468/2013, but I might be wrong (CRR Capital Requirements Regulation) , which defines very precisely, unambiguously, what is an important participation. A qualifying holding is one where the person has 10% of the voting rights or, alternatively, 10% of the capital. Why is it set at 10% of the capital? There are a number of cooperative or cooperative credit institutions in the European Union and this is why it is recorded in 10% of the capital. Why is it recorded that capitalist, but not just voices? Look, if the bank gets into trouble, the rule number 1 of the financial supervisors is that money is charged to the big owners. This is one of the reasons why those with a significant share in capital are always viewed here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U115	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Financial Supervision Authority! In today's round of questions, and also in your presentation, you concerned money laundering. My question may continue to question this most scandalous money laundering case. How long is it now when a possible money laundering process is being followed? Can you appreciate that? How effective are you to assess cross-border cooperation in the prevention and detection of money laundering incidents? Maybe you need to say something again, but it would be good to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U117	Thank you very much. I think it would be right to put this issue first and foremost to the law enforcement authorities, because money laundering is a specific crime prohibited by the Penal Code and punishable by the Penal Code. We are not involved in the detection of these crimes. Once again, what we are dealing with is that we are dealing with the banks being able to understand that they have arrived, say, this kind of grey money, and that they can understand it at the very moment that this money arrives in the bank, and that they are motivated to block it. Like I said, this money doesn't have a stamp on it that it's money laundering money. But if a very large transfer is made from a tax-free area with very strange explanations, there might be a suspicion. What is this time cycle? We usually have annual work plans. Of course, if we receive information from partners, from the market or from third sources that there may be an increased risk of money laundering in some banks, then we will react more operationally. Speaking of cooperation, I say this: in 2014, we made a comprehensive inventory of our house, looking at our own actions to prevent money laundering. By now we have built up a proper network of cooperation, we have a pretty good relationship with the Estonian authorities as well as with our partners in some major foreign countries. The exchange of information is reliable and works. So, if you look at the steps that we have taken in recent years, I think that we have achieved some second quality in this area compared to the time when these unfortunate things took place in 2011-2014. In fact, why have we achieved another quality? Because that's when we learned. In 2014, when I took over the management of the Financial Supervision Authority, we realised that the risks in the field of money laundering were too great for Estonia, and we started working immediately. The 2014 news is now coming to the public, and we are talking about these cases. If you ask me if we're dealing with the prevention of money laundering right now, I say yes, we deal with it every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U118	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U119	Honourable rapporteur! I'm a terrible advocate of cooperative banks. That is why I think the Tallinn cooperative bank would be a very difficult blow to cooperative banking as such and a bang to its prestige. You talked about this 10% capital. Yes, I understand that very well. But do you also consider whether there are criminal elements moving near or inside the cooperative bank when you do the analysis? I mean that, for example, the Centre Party has been criminally punished and is still serving a sentence, the Centre Party has said that they are leaving Estonia's legal space and so on. Do you have any such fact that a cooperative bank is like a flypaper that attracts criminals?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U120	Thank you! You always have these, say, complicated questions. You also asked the President of the Bank Hansson a question he couldn't answer. Now I have to think a little bit about how I'm gonna answer that question. In general, the requirements for a significant proportion of the owners have been harmonised, and I repeat this already for several times at the level of European Union law. In principle, these requirements can be divided into several parts. First of all, how strong his financial position is. Secondly, as far as, let's say, he's experienced in the financial market. Third, what his reputation or reputation is. This last block also includes the assessment of criminal cases and other possible failings that individuals have had. On this basis, a decision is formed, let's say that. But once again, this decision is a set of circumstances. It's not like someone's ever had a criminal case, and now he's guilty for life and for the rest of time. It's not like that. They're looking at other things. But surely, things like criminal proceedings or criminal convictions are something that is assessed and considered in essence when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U121	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U122	Thank you. Estonian pension funds are among the least profitable pension funds in Europe, but their administrative costs are, on the contrary, the highest. Where can this shoe squeeze, and does the Financial Supervision Authority have any mechanisms to influence these tendencies in a positive way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U123	Thank you! What is the Financial Supervision Authority doing in the field of supervision of pension funds? In abstract terms, he controls that pension fund managers and pension funds comply with the requirements of the law. So in the case of fees, we do not necessarily see that they are the lowest or the highest, but rather that they are not higher than the ceiling prescribed by law. We look at trends in pension fund management fees in 2014, 2015 and 2016. We have seen that one hard step down was moved in 2014 and 2015. Why? Because the regulation directed pension fund managers to lower their fees. Also in 2015 and 2016 downward movements of these charges were observed. There is already more market power in this area, as the future pension fund has entered the market, which has introduced significantly lower fees than has been the market's practice so far. You said the rate of return was low. It's like that and it's like that. The management companies themselves say that this is a'statistical reflection' of what happened during the financial crisis, when a terrible amount had been invested, I do not know, maybe it is not nice to say so from here, but I will say, however, in junk securities that all came to be written off. This is the result of a relatively low rate of return. The banks have learned their lesson from investing in this piece of junk. We've dealt with all these cases one by one and read them words a long time ago. So right now, in the so-called collection phase of the second pillar pension funds, there is a pretty good quality when we talk about meeting the requirements of the law. But the rest is that we have a small society and few people. Therefore, things sometimes tend to be a little different in price here than in some larger societies and jurisdictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U124	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U125	Thank you. In your previous reply, you said that there was an investment in junk securities that had to be written off. Against this background, I would like to ask how your authority defines money laundering. What is the definition of money laundering in Estonia, where is investment, whether benevolent or unintentional, started, and where is the conscious, determined optimization of income and concealment of own profits?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U126	Thanks! I'm an education lawyer and I'd like to answer you exactly, but I don't have a law book ahead of me. I'm not gonna be able to find it that fast. I would be happy to respond exactly to the definition of money laundering in the law. Here I said that money laundering is the concealment or conversion of criminally earned money into legal money. I think it basically conveys what money laundering is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U127	Dear Chairman of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, thank you for your presentation and your answer to questions. All members of the Riigikogu have one oral question in this case. I'll open the negotiations. Urmas Kruuse on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U128	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In the background to this, I would like to make a few points and pass on a request to the Financial Supervision Authority. Indeed, when we are talking about placing people's money in different institutions, I am sure that we must do everything we can to ensure that this money is protected, regardless of whether legislation always allows it. The same logic requires us to be very attentive to the way in which we use taxpayers' money to create such institutions. But also by sticking to inara luigas, I would like to say that if there is a need to increase the control of savings loan cooperatives, there should certainly not be such a thing as to stifle the burden that comes upon this control. I think there's a chance. Let me give you an example of the countryside. This concerns small cow farmers whose milk sold is clearly cheaper due to small quantities than milk produced in large enterprises. There may be a certain type of economic logic and adequacy, but if we take unfair advantage of the opportunities, we can also suffocate something important for a small area where people have voluntarily come together and decided to share resources with each other. That was what I wanted to put to the Financial Supervision Authority's heart, so that they would keep that in mind throughout the subsequent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U129	There's no more calls. The 2016 Annual Report of the Financial Supervision Authority has been discussed and processed in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U130	The next item is the third reading of draft law 204 on public procurement initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the groups want to negotiate? Please, on behalf of the Group of the Arto Aas Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U131	Honourable Riigikogu! Let me first remind you that the new law on public procurement has been dealt with for a very long time. I looked it up today, just two years ago, the bill was sent to the coordination circle, and exactly a year ago, on behalf of the government, I handed it over to the Riigikogu. On behalf of the Riigikogu, I would like to thank the leading men Maris Lauri and Deniss Borodichi, who have worked hard on this draft. This is an important draft, which has a very large impact on the Estonian state and economy. After all, we are in a legal environment where most of the funds must be put into effect in procurement procedures. Public procurement provides an important framework for this. I think the purpose of the law is very well formulated on the first page of the law. The aim is to ensure the transparent, efficient and sustainable use of the contracting authority's funds. That is the purpose of the law. Unfortunately, I have to admit that the change of government made things a little longer and, even worse, there was an important stumbling block at the very end of the line. We are talking about the Ultimate Control of Subcontractors, which is an amendment written in the law at the last moment, which forces us to check the identity of the subcontractors, the names of all people and, even more complicated, the state will settle the disputes between subcontractors and main contractors itself. Consider, for example, the procurement of Rail Baltic. This construction could last, I don't know, eight years. It is likely that there will be one main contractor, but hundreds of subcontractors, thousands of employees and tens of thousands of opportunities for dispute, and all this must now be dealt with by the contracting authority itself. There is a wild risk that red tape will increase, very likely to increase the costs of contracting authorities, i.e. taxpayers, which may mean dragging down procurement, but if procurement is lingering, this may mean that the use of European Union funds will be put at risk, because the funding period will run out, and there will be other potential costs and impacts. This concerns billions of euros, very large procurements. As the explanatory memorandum honestly says, there is no impact assessment. We know that construction companies themselves do not support this solution, nor does the Chamber of Commerce and Industry support this solution and the wording. We cannot create a new, fourth level of justice. This is legally unclear, and it does not fit in purely procedurally, because two days before the second reading voting on such a proposal without any involvement and without impact analysis is a gross violation of good legislative practice. There is no point in making big words about a new political culture and how we will discuss the proposals with the parties if we simply ignore interest groups on such important issues. The chairman of the committee was later left with the right and the arrogance. Unfortunately, with this amendment, this tar drop, which ruined this long-awaited bill, fell into the honey pot. It is not a substitute for an analysis and an impact assessment if we say that the deadline for this amendment to enter into force is one year later. It doesn't make any sense. If we have so long, then we should actually consider the matter first, and only when we are ready and we realise that our wish is that there is fair competition and subcontractors are protected, that is, I believe, everyone's wish in this hall If we decide today that the River Emajõgi should flow the other way, and we simply give this decision a year to come into effect, it will not help us in any way if we do not know how to do it and if it makes sense. It doesn't make sense. Therefore, since at the last moment amendments have been made here, which have not been considered and the effects of which have not been assessed, it is difficult for me and very many others to vote in favour of this draft today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U132	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U133	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! In my earlier life, I always said, thought and acted on the basis of this principle, that the Public Procurement Act is one of the good laws that helps honest and successful entrepreneurs, because it creates an environment in which it can compete fairly. The contracting authority must be wise, know what he wants, be able to define his wishes and all the criteria on which he assesses the offers received. The draft Public Procurement Act contains a lot of positive elements. Although the Free Party, together with the Rectors' Council, did not achieve what was desired and the simple procurement remained in place, we achieved a little and the threshold for simple procurement was raised to EUR 30000. We understand very well why simple procurement was to be maintained: still money for economic use, transparency, clarity and honesty. There is still a lot of good in this bill. I really like the clarity of the procedure for the procurement, the disassembly of tenders, the description of the activities of the contracting authority. However, as Arto Aas said here, the weakest and worst points of this bill, unfortunately, are those which place a heavy administrative burden on the contracting authority and put it in a position where it must begin to assess the quality of all the works carried out by the subcontractor. I am sorry, but this approach is neither democratic nor good for this country. We still have to rely on the fact that we also trust the main contractor. We cannot assume that the main contractor is definitely a crook or a crook who does not want to pay the subcontractor for the work he has done. So who's gonna appreciate it? The contracting authority, the head of the public authority, will assess whether the subcontractor has done his work properly. This is an absurd situation, not to mention that the increase in the administrative burden on the contracting authority is almost indescribable. The second thing, which is also a very heavy administrative burden, is, of course, the evaluation of all the successful tenders. In socio-political terms, it is certainly a positive role to assess the fair price of a successful tender and to check whether the company pays fair pay and whether taxes have been paid. But you have to be prepared for all of this. This cannot be demanded from the contracting authority, as this would mean that it would certainly be necessary to recruit its own procurement specialists in a small body as well. So, next to all the beautiful and good things that are in the draft law, there are a number of conditions that, unfortunately, cannot be supported here at the last moment without analysis and without understanding what it means to put in place such a procedure for the use of European Union money. Not to mention that we want to adopt a law that has four different periods of application. That's pathetic. The good thing is just spoiled with two big tar drops. Unfortunately, the Free Party cannot support the draft in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U134	On behalf of the Group of the Aivar Kokk Fatherland and Res Publica Association.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U135	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the previous speakers, I got a weird feeling. In recent days, we have learned from the press who are the leaders of the highest-paid institutions in Estonia. They happen to be heads of state companies. Now we are saying that the heads of state companies, who receive twice as much pay as most members of the Riigikogu, should not work. It makes me feel really weird. It seems that this is said by those people who have not worked in business for one day and therefore think that the contracting authority should not know who is working on its site, or that the contracting authority should not know that the main contractor went bankrupt with his low offer and failed to pay all the money to the subcontractors and that the people who worked for those subcontractors lost their salary. I can give you a simple example. A few years ago, a public limited company built a warehouse for the Defence League in Jõgeva. The main contractor was a public limited company and the subcontracting was carried out by such companies, essentially shell companies, who did not pay any cents to their people, who were either Jõgeva's people or from Mustvee near Peipsi for months. When the client was approached with this concern, he said it wasn't his problem, it was the main contractor's problem. Friends, read this law section three times, then go have a cup of coffee and read it again. It is very simple: the main contractor informs the contracting authority who is subcontractors. It has been in force for years and I think the local government leaders will remember it very well. Such a law has always been in force, in the meantime the belt has simply been relaxed and this commitment has been removed. The other part of the case is that if the main contractor has invoiced the contracting authority and the contracting authority has told the supervisor that the work is complete, the question arises as to why the subcontractor should not receive the money. There is simply a clause in the letter that if the work has been published and the principal has been paid by the contracting authority, but the subcontractor has not received his money, the subcontractor has the right to contact the contracting authority and ask whether the money has been paid to the main contractor. From there, the possibility arises that the contracting entity has the right to squeeze the main contractor a little bit. Today I spoke to the CEO of the Chamber of Industry. He doesn't see this problem the way they see it in this room today. I understand that the head of two state agencies has a problem, the head of State Real Estate AS and the Road Administration. I think that for the salary they get, they have to do a little more work, and they have to make sure that the money that the state allocates to build these objects is reasonably used. Many of the proposals and conditions that have been included in the draft have actually been put forward by large construction companies, who want to ensure that once again there are no companies of the type of Facio that take advantage of the possibility that a low price offer might win the contract, but not pay taxes or pay money to subcontractors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U136	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote of 204. We'll do it in about two minutes. Honourable Riigikogu, since the adoption of Bill 204 as a law requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, we will do a verification of the presence. 66 members of the Riigikogu are present, 35 are missing. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft law 204 on public procurement initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu voted against, 4 against and 1 abstention. The draft 204 did not find any support.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U137	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Rail Act and the Public Transport Act, initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Are the groups willing to enter into negotiations? That wish... Still. Priit Onion, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U138	No, it's not. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U139	You were leaning. All right! The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 398. Let's get ready for this. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Rail Act and the Public Transport Act, initiated by the Economic Commission, 398. Please take a stand and vote. 68 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 6 against; 2 members of the Riigikogu did not take part in the vote. Bill 398 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U140	The next item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Announcement of the members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council of recognized experts in the field of Estonian Public Broadcasting', submitted by the Committee on Culture. Aadu Musta, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture has indeed submitted a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to the Riigikogu on the appointment of the members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council of recognized experts in the field of Estonian Public Broadcasting. The point is that according to the law, the Estonian National Broadcasting Council is made up of representatives of the parliamentary groups and, as there are many political groups now, there are relatively many political members there, six, and in addition, experts are appointed to the Riigikogu on the proposal of the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu. On 6 May the mandates of the three experts of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council, Mart Luige, Rain Tamme and Agu Uudelepa, will end. There is another expert, Pille Pruulmann-Vengerfeldt, who took office later and also his mandate will expire later, on 5 May 2020. We therefore need to appoint three experts today. The Cultural Commission received 11 applications for vacant posts. The final vote in the Commission took place on 11 April. There was a secret vote in which one candidate was elected in the first round and another round was needed to appoint all three candidates. We have received all the necessary documents and a list of the conditions under which experts must meet and which they must not constitute. They were all accounted for. For some, we also asked for a legal expert opinion, but all 11 candidates qualified. Ultimately, the Committee on Culture confirmed its decision in a consensual manner. The persons nominated as experts are Paavo Nõgene, Agu Uudelepp and Rein Veidemann. They've all given their written consent. That is why the Committee on Culture is proposing today a decision confirming Paavo Nõges, Agu Uudelepa and Rein Vikemann as members of the National Broadcasting Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U142	Every member of the Riigikogu will be able to ask an oral question during the discussion on this item. Andres Ammas is the first to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U143	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! Some time ago, the National Audit Office made proposals on national broadcasting in its audit. One of them said that the elections to the National Broadcasting Council should be more transparent. Did this process now take place more transparently and in accordance with the principles recommended by the National Audit Office?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U144	Thank you for a very good question. Since this is a serious issue, as chairman of the committee, I also consulted the National Audit Office and asked what their opinion was. True, it was said that this opinion is, of course, wider, not just about selecting experts. Perhaps we are talking at all about disproportation, because look at how many politicians there are and how few experts there are. So everything that was in the opinion of the National Audit Office could not be realised in these elections. The National Audit Office did not say to choose this or the second or third one. For God's sake! However, since my specific question to them was whether the Chancellor of the Ministry could fit in or not, they showed in their reply what are the benefits of this choice, how, according to Estonian law, in many cases, the councils ex officio already have government representatives inside, which are its advantages. It was also mentioned where there could be a conflict of interest, etc., as you referred to. The National Audit Office was politically correct, they did not impose their opinion, but also referred to these expert opinions of the National Audit Office, where it is considered that closer cooperation with the Ministry would be useful in practical work. In this sense, I dare to interpret it so to you: the decision was rather that, in this case, the choice of Chancellor is in accordance with the general interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U145	Please, Viktoria Ladynskaya!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U146	My next question relates to your previous answer, but I want a very precise answer. Competitions are always difficult, there are always candidates who have sympathies, there are those who have opponents, there are those who are considered to be major experts, and there are those who are smaller. These are always arguments, you know that. But I think there's a black-be-rule. It is not correct to appoint a high executive official, who is at the same time a member of the management of the Ministry of National Broadcasting, to the National Broadcasting Council, which must be a balanced body. Therefore, it seems to me that Chancellor Paavo Nõgene of the Ministry of Culture should be excluded because of his current position, not because of his personality. Don't you see there's a clear conflict of interest here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U147	I must repeat in part the answer I gave to the first question. Indeed, it was an issue that several members of the Commission, including Mrs Viktoria, raised in previous discussions. Whether Paavo Nõgene could be appropriate was discussed very thoroughly and the result was pretty unpredictable. After focusing on this particular problem, Paavo Nõges lost only one vote; he received not a vote against, but one person lost his voice. Votings are secret, but the way to put it now, the door-to-door interview, which is not official, indicated that one of the coalition's members was the only one who did not vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U148	Well, the Hatter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U149	Thank you, good vice chairman. A representative of the good Commission. In your first reply, you said that the Chancellor's favour is that there is a need for closer cooperation with the Ministry of Culture. What are the shortcomings in the ERR Council's activities so far that it has not been possible to ensure sufficient cooperation with the Ministry of Culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U150	After all, any sufficiency is relative to what is sufficient or inadequate. The opinion that I actually picked out of the National Audit Office's act was such as to say in the language of the rural people, not with long and complicated terms, that sometimes the information cord went too long.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U151	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U152	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I will continue with the question of my good colleague Viktoria. I remember the beginning of his question; he asked for a specific and brief answer. His question was whether you, rather than the Commission, would see whether, as chairman of your committee, you would see a potential conflict of interest when the Chancellor of the Ministry of Culture, acting as the executive, undoubtedly has the potential to create a conflict in a position that must be balanced and neutral. He did not ask what the result of the vote was in the Commission. He did not ask what was the content of the debate, discussion, or discussion. Do you, Mr President of the Commission, see the possible conflict of interest that might arise because of this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U153	I don't know how brief I should be. I'll do the introduction, then I'll answer very briefly, and then I'll take a summary, okay, then it's particularly methodical. But I'm saying I don't see a dangerous conflict there. [[The excitement in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U154	Monika Haukanõmm.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm looking at those names. Two of the previous three so-called experts might perhaps be called financial experts, who are also able to read finance. Now we're going to appoint three new experts. I would like to know which of these three would perform the role of financial expert in the National Broadcasting Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U156	The internal division of labour is already the task of the Council itself. According to voters, the Commission chose the best options from the available options. If you mean that every member of the Council could have a specific label, then you can say that it has sometimes been tried, but in the previous composition this label did not exactly correspond to the content, of course. Some things are relative.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U157	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I grabbed your adorable statement that you didn't see a dangerous conflict. What if you define the difference between a dangerous and a safe conflict?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U159	The thing is, as long as we're not at the cemetery, we're alive and we're talking, we always have different opinions. Look, if you're in a cemetery and your mouth is full of dirt, there's no more discussion. That's what we have, isn't it? Each discussion has at least a theoretical element of conflict, because otherwise there would be no discussion but a monologue or, in the right case, a duet, where there is no conflict, and both sing the same song. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U160	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U161	Thank you. I'm gonna keep going on the same subject, but a little bit on the other side. I'm not asking what a dangerous conflict is. But I ask what is the violation of the principle of separation of powers in this case. Do you see any danger in this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U162	In my introductory speech, I had to talk about what happened in the Commission, but perhaps it would have been quite interesting to talk about what happened around the Commission. When speaking with colleagues, it was interesting to hear that all the members of the Commission became surprisingly popular during this election procedure. They had a lot of letters and addresses about this style: 'Oh, I don't want to influence, but... '. Indeed, they were very different. I would also like to say that there was also an opportunity to have a discussion with the people who were delegated to the National Broadcasting Council as all parliamentary politicians. We tried to listen to different opinions. I dare say, however, that the views of all current members of the Broadcasting Council were more or less overlapping with regard to these candidates, with some parties having disagreements. As far as the conflict or not is concerned, much of the criticism did not come from one direction. I'm trying to paraphrase a well-known comparison. Sometimes people say it doesn't matter what color a cat is, as long as it catches mice. The criticism was mostly in the direction that it does not matter whether a cat catches mice, but what is important is what colour it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U163	Barbi Cloud.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U164	The candidates included experts from the Baltic Film and Media School of Tallinn University, Indrek Ibrus and Andres Jõesaar. Was the involvement of media experts with a broader picture of the field not discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U165	In fact, it is fundamental to emphasise one thing: for no candidate, the Commission did not say that it was not a good person. Sorry, good specialist! If a good person is, we didn't discuss it. It was even a question of peripheral characteristics that sometimes have to be taken with the utmost seriousness, but experts may not always have to be taken into account. Fortunately, no discussion was held this time on whether anyone was from Tallinn or Tartu. However, the question at issue was that only men were chosen on an occasional basis, but should we not also look at gender equality? It turns out that, fortunately, things are normal in the Broadcasting Council, and it has already been ensured that there is a balance. So everything was accounted for. Indrek Ibrus was also a very serious candidate, although he himself, in the meantime, said that he knew the result in advance and was therefore prepared to withdraw his candidacy. We didn't know the outcome. It was that simple.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U166	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U167	Good manager! Good waitress! I'd like to ask if I've had any contact with the media. In the case of Agu Uudelepa and Rein Väikemann, I do not have the question whether they are really media experts. However, Paavo Nõgene, a high official, raises questions. But the question is rather, will there now be two members of the Reform Party in the Broadcasting Council and all other parties have to accept one? Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U168	I honestly admit that, as chairman of the committee, I might have been able to turn to Paavo Nõges as well and say that it should be good and sign that he resigns from one party or another. It wasn't like that. That he does not represent party politics is true, without putting his hand on the Bible, sworn, he has promised to be a specialist. A man's word!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U169	Tiina Kangro.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U170	Thank you. Having worked very long in national broadcasting and its predecessor in Estonian Television and having been in charge of this organisation, even in those years when the transition from a Soviet propaganda institution to a public organisation that we prepared very thoroughly in cooperation with the EBU, I am also of the opinion that it is a bad choice to play with such an image as a specialist would be a person who is very close to politics and executive power. But the question for you is this. In this context, have you not seen the choice for Paavo Nõges' benefit by risking that it would not allow a genuine public-law organisation to develop, which the public would also have confidence in?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U171	Thank you. [[High and hoarse tone.]] I'm sorry, I wasn't excited by the question, I'm a little cold when someone was wondering about the voice. I wanted to say that the Members of the Commission are indeed from different political groups. The candidacy of Paavo Nõges was discussed in the most detailed way and the story ended with everyone having to vote in a secret vote and express their position. I've had a lot of letters asking me nicely if we can't change our decision quickly. No, we cannot change our decision quickly, but every member of the Riigikogu, on the basis of his conscience, makes a choice as to whether he or she considers the proposed draft to be the best of the existing one or not to vote in favour of it. The fact that Paavo Nõgene was an experienced manager was repeatedly emphasised. So think, analyze and make your fair and fair choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U172	No further questions. Thank you very much for the waitress. Now the representatives of the political groups have the opportunity to negotiate. I will open negotiations and ask for the first chair on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U173	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Audu Black, a good colleague, said that those people whose suitability we are going to vote on are not on the label. I disagree. I think three people have a sign on them: one has a sign from the Centre Party, one has an IRL tag and one has a Social Democrat sign. The question was, what kind of sign does any of them have? I think it's a public secret that coalition parties decided that every party could name one of their own people, the Centre Party thought it was Veidemann, IRL thought it was Agu Uudelepp, and the Social Democrats presented Nõges. I don't have a direct problem with any of them. The new Treaty is still a member of the Council and even the chairman of the Council, and Veidemann has been there before, and I have no doubt that Paavo Nõgene is a good expert in this area and brings more expertise to the Council. In my opinion, however, there is a serious problem with this whole process in the Committee on Culture when the selection of new members of the ERR Council has taken place. I will start by saying that the Committee on Culture is one of those committees where we, as a small group, do not have a representative. In general, so I have understood things in the Riigikogu in two years, it is a good practice that in such cases a group is informed and asked for an opinion. It is true that when I took the initiative myself and spoke to the committee chairman outside the formal format, there was some opinion on these issues, but I think that this process is the opposite of the new policy that was promised to us in the immediate government. So, just like in previous years, the seats in the ERR Council are simply divided on the basis of political preference. All this talk about the expertise, the good level, or the background that goes with it, it's just a ripple of warm air. This is not in line with the idea of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act. Our group cannot support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U174	There's no more calls. According to § 117 (2) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, no amendments to this draft could be tabled. We are now going to prepare the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu! The commission that has submitted this draft to us has proposed that it be put to the final vote on 437. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Committee on Culture, on the nomination of the members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council of recognized experts in the field of Estonian Public Broadcasting, 437. Please take a stand and vote. 57 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 11 against and 5 abstentions. Draft 437 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U175	Our eighth item today is the second reading of the draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and related amendments to other laws. I'd like a presentation by a member of the Chair Environment Committee, Terje Trei.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U176	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code Act and related amendments to other laws took place in this Chamber on 22 March. Let me remind you for a moment of the substance of the bill. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The legislative changes are necessary for the establishment of the environmental decision-making information system KOTKAS, which brings together applications for environmental permits, their procedures and authorisations already issued in one of the information systems.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U177	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to give the rapporteur the opportunity to report this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U178	This will make monitoring and annual reporting related to the issuance of environmental permits easier, as well as facilitating the storage, use and availability of data. The first reading was closed and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 5 April. By this deadline, the political groups and committees of the Riigikogu did not submit proposals; however, the Commission received 14 amendments from the initiator of the draft, the Ministry of the Environment, and the Commission itself decided to adjust the title of the draft. The 14 amendments tabled were discussed in the Commission (whether or not to formalise them as proposals) on 4 and 10 April. Eda Pärtel, Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of the Environment, Aivi Aolaid, Adviser to the Environmental Management Department of the Ministry of the Environment, and Lyli Junti, head of the Environmental Board. Eda Pärtel gave an overview of the proposals made by the Ministry of the Environment to amend the draft. The main changes to the general part result from the completion and implementation of new specific parts. Most of the proposals concern the environmental permit procedure. Four amendments were examined and agreed unanimously at the meeting on 4 April. However, a number of amendments were mixed up by the members and it was decided to continue the debate at the next meeting. At its meeting on 10 April, the proposals were continued to be examined. It started with a controversial proposal. Eda Pärtel explained the proposal to supplement § 4 (3) (21), according to which a letter of guarantee should be attached to the application for an environmental permit, in which the applicant guarantees the payment of the costs of publication in the newspaper of the notices relating to the environmental permit procedure. The Committee on the Environment did not accept the proposal and it was therefore decided not to finalise the Commission's amendment. There were no major differences between the other ten amendments. So today there are 14 proposals on the list of amendments. I will also give you an overview of the procedural decisions. On 4 April, the amendments were voted and the Commission decided to continue the debate on 10 April. On 10 April it was decided by consensus that the draft, together with the amendments, would be sent to the second reading of the Chamber, that the second reading of the draft should be stopped, and that, when the second reading is completed, we would propose that the third reading be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu and that the draft be put to the final vote. Since the Commission's decisions on the date needed to be adjusted due to the rapporteur's secondment, the date set by the Bureau for the third reading is 10 May 2017. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U179	Thanks to the waitress! No questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups or other members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? There are no requests, we will examine the amendments. As the rapporteur said, there are 14 amendments, all tabled by the Committee on the Environment. The lead committee has taken all of these into account. The way it's gonna be, we're gonna go through them one by one. The first amendment is tabled by the Committee on the Environment, and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The second amendment is tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment is tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fourth amendment is tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fifth amendment is tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The sixth amendment is tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The seventh amendment is tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The eighth amendment is tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The ninth amendment is tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 10th amendment is tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The 14th proposal, as well as the last amendment, has also been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 397. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U180	The ninth item on the agenda, ladies and gentlemen, is the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 386. I would like to present a speech chair to Märt Sults, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U181	Good vice chairman! Colleagues! We go to the second reading of the draft law amending the competition law and the other laws. The procedure between first and second reading was led by the chairman of the committee; I am talking about what we have done. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic. a February 6th. The first reading took place on 22 March, with the deadline for tabling amendments on 5 April at 5 p.m. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. The Committee on Economic Affairs prepared the draft for a second reading on 19 April; it was the procedure that was discussed on 19 April. There were no opinions or views on the draft submitted to the commission and the Commission itself did not have any amendments. The text of the draft text has been editorially edited between the two readings and linguistic changes have been made, which in no case alters the substance or form of the draft. The procedural decisions of the commission were as follows: The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to send the draft to second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 3 May, i.e. today, and to propose that the second reading be terminated. The Commission also decided that, once the second reading of the draft was completed, the draft would have to be put to the final vote on 10 May. According to Protocol No 134 to the meeting of the Economic Commission of the Riigikogu, the discussion, voting and procedural decisions of 386 amendments to the draft law amending the competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws were on the agenda before sending to second reading. Kaido Rosin explained that no letters or amendments had been tabled. Aivar Kokk, Erki Savisaar, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru and Siim Kiisler were elected on 3 May (consensus, voted Aivar Kokk, Erki Savisaar, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru and Siim Kiisler), to propose that the second reading be completed (consensus, voted Aivar Kokk, Erki Savisaar, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru and Siim Kiisler), then to send the draft to third reading, the third reading to take place on 10 May (consensus, voted Aivar Kokk, Erki Savisaar, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru and Siim Kiisler). The minutes were signed by Aivar Kokk and Henrik Mägi. The extract is correct, there's confirmation. There was a debate, but if it was particularly emotional, I can't say that. But I had this question: if we make ourselves firm competition rules and transpose European directives into one, why, at the same time, do we put ourselves under a blow in the global market, where this competition is a little different? For example, I had a question about oil, about the impact of oil prices on other industries. Please complete the second reading and send the draft to the third reading by 10 May! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U182	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? No, we don't want to open negotiations. As the rapporteur said, no amendments to the draft were tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 386. The second reading of this draft has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U183	The tenth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Traffic Act initiated by the members of the Riigikogu Erki Savisaare, Viktor Vassilyev, Raivo Põldaru, Arno Silla, Jaanus Marrandi, Aivar Koka, Einar Vallbaumi, Kalle Palling, Kristen Michali, Artur Talvik, Kalvi Tõvi, Krista Aru, Liisa Oviir and Märt Sults. Erki Savisaare, member of the Riigikogu, will present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U184	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the draft law on the amendment of the Traffic Act 399, the initiators of which include representatives from all political groups. This draft amends the Traffic Act and regulates, in part or in full, vehicles that move automatically, i.e. without direct intervention by the driver. These are not self-driving cars. The legislative drive has been the development of low-speed parcel robots with no clear legal regulation to use, but the wider introduction of which is a matter of the near future. In the field of transport, more and more attention is being paid to vehicles with automatic driving around the world, their development and deployment. Until now, regulations have been small-area-based and are intended for a test period or test vehicles. The low-speed vehicle technology has developed rapidly, which is why this draft aims to tackle wider road-driving problems that are remotely controlled or designed to perform certain specific work and also have to move along the road, if necessary, such as street cleaning machines, park care machines, etc. Vehicles with a design speed greater than 6 km/h (e.g. remotely controlled toy cars with a speed greater than 6 km/h, the purpose of which is not to travel) and vehicles which are considered to assist pedestrian movements (e.g. balance vehicles) are excluded from the scope of the amendments. The Traffic Act regulates for the first time the vehicle category "robot-mobile" and establishes the definition of a robot-mobile, general technical requirements and requirements for its use in traffic, as well as the requirements applicable to its driver and user. The aim of the amendment is to modernise the regulation of the Road Traffic Act and to bring it into line with technical progress. The aim is to regulate the movement of light and automatic vehicles driven by a low speed engine. The draft has been initiated by members of the Riigikogu, but the draft and its explanatory memorandum have been prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the law firm Sirk and Saareväli, lawyers Indrek Sirki and Maano Saareväli. Researchers at the Tallinn University of Technology Law Institute, led by Professor Tanel Kerikmäe, have contributed to the compatibility with international law. The purpose of the proposal is to establish the definition of vehicles which are mainly moving at low speed on the pavement and which are at least partially automatically moving, and the requirements for the movement of these vehicles. "Robot-mobile" means a vehicle, partly or wholly automatic or remotely controlled, moving on wheels or other running gear in contact with the ground, using sensors, cameras or other devices to obtain information on the environment, capable of moving in part or in full without direct control by the driver and having a design speed not exceeding 6 km/h. Such innovative vehicles are capable of remotely and partially or fully automatically moving from one location to another, using various technologies and maps to navigate. For safety reasons, the maximum speed is limited to the 6 km/h corresponding to the normal pedestrian speed and the maximum weight limit is up to 50 kg, which corresponds to the weight of a teenage child. Such a motorist can be used to carry out a number of tasks, including parcel transport, "last km" transport, including food delivery, real-time measurements, clean-up, etc. As a result of the creation of a new category of vehicles, amendments to the Traffic Act require that this vehicle is permitted to travel primarily on the sidewalk, in exceptional cases in the absence of a sidewalk, on other parts of the road. The vehicle is not intended for the carriage of persons. In recent years, the development of new technologies has been a stormy, traditional differentiation of traffic rules based on pedestrians and vehicles has been somewhat in the way of this. Even now, pedestrians use a number of tools to move in the pedestrian area: balance, single - wheel balance, balance, electric skateboard, electric scooter, or electric shockwheel, and some more. Many tools to facilitate pedestrian traffic are vehicles, according to traditional traffic regulations, but by their very nature they are better suited to the pedestrian's traffic environment and not to the normal vehicle environment, i.e. the roadway. For example, in 2011 an amendment was introduced to the Traffic Act to allow the use of balance-mobile vehicles and also to extend the possibility of cyclists travelling on pedestrian road sections. Since the robot motor is generally the size of the average passenger suitcase and moves slowly in terms of weight and dimensions, it is similar to the means of pedestrian movement and balance movement, therefore, the amendments to the traffic law introduced are similar in nature to the requirements of the movement of the balance vehicle. The new regulation raises the question of the risks involved in the introduction of such a vehicle and the potential liability of the user. At the same time, it is important to note that the vehicle which is the subject of the legislative amendment is an object with a low level of risk, both in terms of dimensions and speed of movement, which does not lead to a significant increase in risks in traffic. However, the draft stipulates that the user of the device must be covered by liability insurance, although such a requirement may prove excessive in the long term. Subject to the current regulation of the Road Traffic Act, liability insurance and motor insurance are not required for means of transport such as electric wheelchairs, bicycles, balance-mopeds, etc. In essence, the robot motion is no different from the above. As expected for the vehicles listed, the issue of liability can be resolved on a general basis. There are a number of sections of the Traffic Act that deal with balance movements and similar devices. For the most part, the change is that the concept of robot motion has been added to it. I ask the Riigikogu to support this innovative bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U185	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. First Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U186	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, When I read about this bill earlier, I remembered a subject such as what requirements are being imposed on the user of the device who sends those robotics out. Was it a joke when they said he had to be sober, even though he's sitting somewhere away from the office behind the computer? Or what exactly are the stories on this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U187	Thank you. Yes, these requirements are similar to those of the normal driver. Of course, this sobriety check is somewhat difficult for robotics. But I would point out that a robot motion is partly an independent thinking device which, in case of danger, must stand either way. If there is an accident and it is important to identify the driver's sobriety, it is already up to the holder of the robot motor to prove that the driver was really sober and acted competently.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U188	Barbi Cloud.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U189	Thank you. I'm interested in a detail. If such a driver is on the sidewalk, what is the relationship between him and, for example, a pedestrian or a roller skater who has to give way to whom? Or is this robot so smart and always functional that he knows how to behave? That's a common-person question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U190	Thank you. Well, his legal context is not the same as that of an ordinary pedestrian, or pedestrian, who must respect him and be honored by pedestrians. If someone maliciously relocates him in any way, the responsibility lies with that relocationer. But, yes, there is a requirement in the law that this robot motor must be able to detect hazards, if necessary, stand still and, before crossing the road, make sure that it is safely possible. If he discovers a problem halfway through, he must be able to go back to a safe place to ensure road safety. What it's going to look like in practice, isn't that something we can say very well? We have experience with a manufacturer who has tested such a robot motor. They've been through it for over 30,000 kilometers, and so far there have been no major problems. Rather, their concern is that the robot motion is too cautious. He could move on from time to time rather than stand in front of every shadow that seems dangerous to him. We do not know what the priorities for the next producers will be, but these fundamentals are, in my opinion, well written in the law, and I hope that this will be enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U191	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U192	Thank you. Good waitress! The question is this: if this robot is a mailman, are there any restrictions on what kind of goods he can carry and what kind he can't?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U193	No, there are no restrictions in the law of traffic. These restrictions stem from other laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U194	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions for you. I ask for a co-report by Mr Raivo Põldaru, member of the Chair Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U195	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Road Traffic Act on 399 Monday, 17 April. The debate was quite short. The Government of the Republic was known to support this bill. The Commission took some procedural decisions: first, it decided to send the draft to the Chamber today, 3 May; second, it decided to propose the completion of the first reading; and third, it decided to propose a deadline of 16 May at 17:00 for the submission of amendments. The decisions were consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-03_U196	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Well, then, thank you very much. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No, we don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 399. First reading of the bill is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 399 amendments. 16 May 2010 at 5 p.m. Dear members of the Riigikogu, our agenda today has been exhausted. I wish you all a beautiful day. Closure of the sitting at 5.48 p.m.
