ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure to welcome you all here and say good morning. We will begin the Riigikogu plenary session... [[Let's hear it.]] Oh, no need to clap. Thank you. We're working here. We will start the 6th working week Thursday session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. And now, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to hand over drafts and enquiries. No one seems to be willing to hand over any drafts or enquiries, which means that we all have the next task of controlling our presence. Please, presence check! 72 members of the Riigikogu registered as present and we are missing 29 members of the Riigikogu this morning.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U2	Okay, let's get to the agenda. We have four items on the agenda today. The first is draft law 459 on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing initiated by the Government of the Republic. This is a third reading, which allows the political groups to speak. Do the political groups have any requests to speak? No, it's not. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 459 and I have a proposal to go to the final vote. Although we have just carried out a check-in, a hall call is now needed for those colleagues who have not yet reached the hall. Can we go to the final vote? There's no opposition. I will put to the final vote draft law 459 on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of this draft, with 0 abstentions and 1 member of the Riigikogu did not participate. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U3	The second item is the draft law on the amendment of the Act on Insurance Activities initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 429, and here, too, we need to carry out a third reading. It is now possible for the political groups to take the floor. The representatives of the political groups have no requests to speak. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on a draft of 429. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the final vote? No objections, let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote a draft of 429. Please take a stand and vote. 67 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting this draft and 6 members of the Riigikogu were against, with 0 abstentions and 3 members of the Riigikogu did not participate. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U4	The third item is the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia' by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This is the first reading of the draft. Please waitress Henn Põllea, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said, this is an amendment to the decision of the Riigikogu on 'Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia'. The essence is that Olga Ivanova and Aivar Kokk leave the delegation and that they are called Urve Tiidus and Sven Sester. The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed this draft on 16 October. The deadline for amendments was 20 October at 4 p.m. but no amendments were tabled. The Committee on Foreign Affairs therefore took the following procedural decisions by consensus: First, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft 526 be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Thursday 26 October. There is also a proposal for a final vote on the draft and a decision on the draft. And the Commission's waitress was appointed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, do you have any questions for the waitress? I don't see any questions. Thank you, waitress. Since this is a draft decision, it is also possible for the political groups to speak on this matter. No one would like to speak on behalf of the political groups. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that no amendments to this draft decision have been received and that the proposal of the commission is for the final vote on the draft 526. Can we go to the vote? Yeah. I propose to you the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia' by the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There were 70 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the draft decision, no respondents or abstentions. Draft 526 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U7	And, as the fourth item on the agenda, we have before us the first reading of the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act 479. Maris Lauri, Member of the Social Affairs Committee, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiator. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The subject dealt with in draft 479 has a long history. On 17 December 2015, the Chancellor of Justice addressed the Riigikogu with a proposal to bring the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act into line with the Constitution. The proposal concerned the right of members of the company's management to unemployment benefit in the event of loss of employment and income. At that time, the Ministry of Justice analysed this issue, but there was no solution. The Riigikogu accepted the Chancellor of Justice's proposal on 9 February 2016 and instructed the Social Affairs Committee to initiate a draft to bring the contested provisions into line with the Constitution. Unfortunately, the Riigikogu did not make any amendments and did not initiate the draft. Therefore, the Chancellor of Justice turned to the Supreme Court on 14 December 2016 with a request to declare § 6 (5) (4) of the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and § 6 (1) (1) of the Unemployment Insurance Act as constitutional and invalid in so far as they exclude the insured person referred to in § 3 (1) of the Unemployment Insurance Act, who is entitled to unemployment insurance benefits under § 6 of the Unemployment Insurance Act, due to the sole reason that he is a member of the company's board of directors, a public prosecutor, a shareholder authorised to represent a partnership, a director of a branch of a foreign company or the head of another permanent establishment of a non-resident. The Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court agreed with the Chancellor of Justice in its judgment of 11 May 2017 and declared the aforementioned laws partly incompatible with the Constitution. It should be noted, however, that the judges Priit Pikamäe and Tambet Tampuu disagreed. On 6 June, on the basis of the aforementioned Supreme Court decision, the Social Affairs Committee discussed the issue of unemployment insurance for members of the management board of companies and the initiation of the draft. Janar Holm, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Võie Jõgiste, Adviser to the Employment Department, were invited to the meeting. By that time, the Ministry had drawn up a draft requiring the head of the company to be registered as unemployed if he did not receive any remuneration and had worked for at least 180 days in the last 12 months and the remuneration received for this work had been deducted from the unemployment insurance contribution. Still, there were questions. For example, does a member of the management board necessarily have to be unemployed in order to qualify for unemployment benefit? The Supreme Court has considered the lack of working income to be important. After a brief discussion, the Commission decided to ask the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for an opinion on the constitutionality of the proposed solution and to initiate a draft amendment to the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. The decisions were taken by consensus. The draft was discussed again at the meeting on 16 October. Sten Andreas Ehrlich, Head of the Employment Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Õie Jõgiste, Adviser to the same department, were invited. A few hours before the beginning of the meeting, new proposals had been received from the Minister, which were explained by the representatives of the Ministry (including the reasons). In particular, if under the Unemployment Insurance Act a person who has 12 months of insurance experience within 36 months is entitled to benefits, but the bill requires 180 days of unemployment to work for 12 months, some of the company's managers may be excluded from unemployment benefit. This is if the unemployed person goes to apply for registration later than six months after the termination of the paid employment. In order to put an end to the conflict, the Ministry proposed replacing the requirement of 180 days of employment with the requirement of two conditions for entitlement to unemployment benefit under the conditions of registration of the head of the company. These two conditions are 12 months of unemployment insurance within 36 months and forced unemployment. It was also proposed to supplement Paragraph 13 (11) of the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, which provides for persons who may continue to participate in labour market training after the termination of unemployment. As the Ministry's proposal had been received just before the Commission meeting and there was not enough time for the members of the Commission to examine the proposed changes, it was decided to discuss the matter again. At the same session, it was decided, by consensus, to appoint me rapporteur for the draft on behalf of the Commission. The next meeting took place on 19 October and Õie Jõgiste participated as a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs. He took stock of the changes that had taken place over time on this issue and once again explained the reasons for the changes proposed by the Ministry. The questions were about a possible change in the target group in relation to the proposed solution. A representative of the Ministry said that in the case of the 180-day employment requirement, you could also register as unemployed the company's managers who are not in insurance age but who could, for example, receive unemployment benefit. There are very few of these people. When answering questions, the representative of the Ministry also explained that although the Supreme Court's decision does not directly concern self-employed persons, the terms of registration of self-employed persons and their spouse participating in the activities of the company could also be amended in order to treat those who have lost their job and those related to the company equally. Five decisions were taken by the Commission in a consensual manner. These decisions were as follows: firstly, to place the draft on the plenary agenda by 26 October; secondly, to submit the draft to first reading as amended; thirdly, to propose the completion of the first reading; fourthly, to set ten working days for the amendments; fifthly, to approve the text of the first reading as amended and the accompanying explanatory memorandum. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U9	Honourable waitress! Colleagues have also raised questions. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U10	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! The law is a winkie by all means. But all the time, we have to answer citizens' questions that you are making good laws for us, but in fact our circumstances are deteriorating: we lose money, we lose health, we have longer queues. What is this conflict or conflict written into that law about? Or maybe the citizens don't get it right?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U11	Thank you! This amendment changes the situation where people who are on the board of a business, such as family businesses, but who actually work as teachers or somewhere else, are not entitled to unemployment benefit, to unemployment benefit or to account for unemployment solely because they are members of the management board of their family businesses. This was the case even in a situation where they did not receive a fee or did nothing there, it was not proportional.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U12	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question relates to your last answer. Does this mean that the same person who has remained, say, unemployed as a teacher and who withdraws dividends from his company every year, will be covered by this protection? And did the Commission also have a philosophical debate on the word 'insurance'? It says, on the one hand, that I'm insure myself against something, but was it also treated as social protection, i.e. purely based on income?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U14	Thank you for your question. This topic was not discussed at the committee meeting, but it has been dealt with in the Supreme Court ruling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U15	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U16	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, the procedural suggestion that please put order in the house, because there are no waitress or questions to be heard here. But here's the question for the waitress. The unlawful situation has been in force for three or four years for the members of the company's board of directors and has suffered certain losses. Is it meant and discussed how the state should respond?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U17	Thank you! This topic was not discussed in the committee, but it was noted during the discussions that after the Supreme Court's decision, the decision has been based on practical circumstances and this "unconstitutional" point has no longer been implemented. So the board members have been compensated.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U18	You don't seem to have any more questions. Thank you. The political groups will be able to take the floor next. Are the representatives of the political groups...? Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U19	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! The Group of the Estonian Free Party is very pleased with this bill, as the Group of the Free Party has already submitted a similar bill twice in the past. Now we thank Mrs Helmen Kütti, who took the initiative in the Committee on Social Affairs and made every effort to make the proposal made by the Free Party a draft law. Society must stand up for what is right and fair, and this bill certainly provides for it. We can't see that one gets more money or earns more than the other. One may be more industrious than the other, making more money. But what can we look at here in the Riigikogu? We can see that it is really right and fair to treat people. The Free Party was a bit saddened when the bill that was submitted twice was put in this drawer, but we hoped that sooner or later the thing that was right and fair would prevail. So today we welcome this bill, which, I hope, will also pass through the first reading. For the first time, we can say that this is also the result of a small victory of the opposition. The great wall that is being built here with many draft laws will be lost, and it is precisely what the Riigikogu must work for that our people are treated fairly and correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U20	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the board wants to come to Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U21	Good previous speaker! Good ambassadors! I am speaking on behalf of the group, but I am talking about my own experience. Eight years worked at the Estonian Youth Work Centre and then the country had a good plan to concentrate and cut the number of officials. They weren't allowed to say that twice in our house, and it was on Kruusimägi Street. Kruusimäe went to the unemployment fund with a happy face because it was said that it would be a good amount of money for that time. But it said no, young man, you are a member of the board of Double Energy Group OÜ. Oh, yeah, really, this OÜ was made four years ago to sell cogeneration plants that come from Finland and go to Belarus, but because the North Estonians tricked us, it didn't work, and so it did. Since economic activity had not taken place for years, the case went to the proceedings of the Tartu Circuit Court, which had to liquidate the company. And the Tartu Circuit Court had been liquidating it for over a year. Since they simply had not managed to do it, it was not the KutiMut and the Boys, but the Double Energy Group, it was said to me: good Kruusimäe, you must wait until this company has been wound up. Because of the principle of separation of powers, I also could not go to Tartu to chip at the door: I had to wait for it to be handled. And he got it worked out, too. Now I want to remind you of one thing for all of you folklores, who are going to take you to local government councils. In fact, the Tallinn Council sent me a salary note consistently. I said, "What's that pay like?" So when I finally got rid of this private limited company and qualified for compensation, they asked: "But Kruusimäe, you are a member of the Tallinn Council and are paid what work do you do?" I said this is the chosen place, it's the compensation. Answer: No, it says here that you are working. And the second question was: you are a member of the administrative council of Kristiine district, what work do you do there? I said write down the mayor's intendant. Answer: How 'intendant', there is no such place. I told you to write it down so you asked me what I was working for. I paid 35 euros a year. How's that so little? I said it was because the wage negotiations were like this. It is, of course, different in the city of Tallinn. When the people of Rakvere heard it there is a Commissioner's compensation of €19 . then they said that it really does not make sense to apply to the local government if it turns out that you are paying unemployment contributions all the time, but you may be unemployed, and then it turns out that the €19 you get from Rakvere is considered an unemployment fund. Maybe if you cut off somewhere, I'll say you could cut off that unemployment fund. I only found a common language there with a third person who understood what the Tallinn Council was and what it means when the Tartu County Court or the Tartu Circuit Court liquidate the private limited company for a year. But the first two were completely meaningless. I might have come up with a solution a lot faster if people had been competent. But what we have today is that when a person is hired, they immediately give him a specialist position. These specialists, however, have often not gained practical experience in life. I was sure this amendment had long been done. But I was just listening to the waitress and telling her there's really no ghost here. I can also safely say to Urmas Kruus that anyone who is already withdrawing dividends from his private limited company cannot go anywhere with the face of such weeping that you can see that I have no economic activity. This benefit is still meant in case your private company doesn't have an economic activity, you've just been a member of the board. Thank you. So I suggest you send the bill to second reading. Take my button, and I'm talking about my great adventures on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-26_U22	Thank you. The political groups have no further requests to speak. The lead committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 479 be terminated. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 479 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 9 November. Ladies and gentlemen, I now wish you safe passage. Consider that after today, the day will come when we will see each other here, which is why you should be careful about the traffic. That's the end of today's trial. Have a good day at work! Closure of the sitting at 10.28 a.m.
