ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 11th working week of the VI plenary session. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U2	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! People's ambassadors Herkel, Talvik, Adams, Ammas, Aru, Hatter, Trei and Gräzin report an inquiry to the Minister for Rural Affairs. I think that there are even more participants in this debate; we did not have time to ask the EKRE Group. This concerns the subject of a sharp rise last week. As regards the allocation of breeding aid, at least a problem of political ethics has emerged, if not a clear conflict of interest with the life partner of the Minister for Economic Affairs. The main question is how these breeding grants were announced during the coalition negotiations and how, after that, the private limited company Linnamäe Peekon became eligible for this support within a few days. But the questions are broader, they apply to the selective nature of this support at all. These concern the influence of the Estonian Breeding Association and its leader Urmas Lah. As we know, only members of this cooperative, not all pig farmers in Estonia, received this support. As breeding aid will continue to be paid, we have a number of questions for the Minister for Rural Affairs about possible conflicts of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U3	There's no more calls. I have accepted an inquiry. We are taking this procedure under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! The assembly has 84 members of the Riigikogu. Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! Adoption of the agenda. I vote on Riigikogu plenary session VI... I won't vote. The manager's break is five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U4	Honourable Riigikogu, I apologize for this delay. In fact, this hammer, too, is resting from this hall this weekend, just like you. And today it happened that we got here before the hammer. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the agenda for the 11th working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U5	The first question raised by Uno Kaskpeit, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U6	Honourable Chairman! Minister, thank you very much. We submitted this inquiry on 15 November. The subject is the state of uniform equipment for border guards. Since 2010, the PBGB, the Police and Border Guard Board, has not been able to provide the staff with a normal form in their daily work. The procurements prepared and announced by the Police and Border Guard Board have failed in a series of ways because of ignorance. The border guards who have never seen a more colourful group on the border are familiar with each border crossing. In accordance with § 139 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, we ask you to answer the following questions that I do not read out in terms of saving time. The Minister will mention them himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U7	Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U8	Good President of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I will answer the question by reading the questions. The first question: "What is the reason for this problem with the ordering of uniforms? In 2015, the Police and Border Guard Board launched a contract for the purchase of a new uniform as a full service. This means obtaining a form with storage, transport and keeping records. Full service procurement would also have made it possible to reduce the costs of the Police and Border Guard Board for buildings and labour. The new uniform is modern in both material and technological terms and user-friendly, suitable for various police tasks. Unfortunately, however, the Police and Border Guard Board has so far failed to obtain the full service of uniform equipment, as no one in Estonia has ever done such a solution for the volumes of the Police and Border Guard Board. The Police and Border Guard Board recognises that it has not foreseen all the complexity and risks associated with such procurement. According to the Agency, new uniforms will be launched this year, i.e. we will have some weeks left of procurement, which will apply a different methodology from full service procurement. This means that uniforms are obtained from similar materials and by objects produced with similar technology. According to the Agency, this approach reduces the risk of failure and allows the transition to a new generation of uniforms in 2018. So much for the first question. The second question: 'How do you plan to solve the problem with the uniforms of border guards? ' As has already been said, we are moving forward with the new uniform procurement process. It should be noted, however, that the Police and Border Guard Board has acquired an average of EUR 1 million of uniforms corresponding to the current description each year. Uniforms must be provided on the basis of § 371 of the Police and Border Guard Act. This law equally imposes an obligation to obtain this form for police officers, as well as the obligation to transfer and carry it. And this is also the result of the regulations of the Minister of the Interior, which regulate the details of the form. In addition, in 2014 and 2016, more than EUR 430000 of uniform equipment was acquired only for officials carrying out border surveillance tasks. During this process, all border crossings in Luhamaa and Koidula received a new green uniform with other necessary equipment, i.e. masking suits, vests, equipment bags, shelter tents, etc. The formal elements were received by 445 officials, including Rapid Border Intervention Unit, Processors, Border Mission Information Officers and officials working at the Koidula border crossing point. The specific number of uniforms depends on the place of work; some of the forms are intended for unit-by-unit use only. Existing contracts exist to ensure the format equipment currently in use. According to the PBA, as I said, a new type of clothing procurement will be launched in the near future, still this year. Question 3: "How does this picture fit into the 100th anniversary year of our country? ' The fact that the PPA, or the full service of the uniforms of the Police and Border Guard Board, has so far failed does not mean that police officers and border guards do not have uniforms or that the requirements for wearing them should not be complied with. With the entry into force of the new procurement, the ordering of the form will continue under the current procedure. As I have already said, it is also my very strong wish that there will be a transition in 2018 to a new generation of uniforms for both police and border guards. The fourth and final question: "Who is personally responsible for the situation? 'The granting and wearing of uniforms for a police officer shall be governed by the procedures laid down by the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board. According to this, compliance with the requirements of the form is primarily the responsibility of the official. The immediate driver or police officer is also obliged to monitor the requirements for updating and wearing uniforms. Therefore, if a good MP or citizen notices an incorrect application for a border guard or police officer, please inform the Police and Border Guard Board of this place and time so that they can specifically draw attention to the deficiencies. Such calls have been made to our people in the past and will continue to be made. In case of exceptional needs, a separate order can be placed for the renewal of the uniform if, for example, one or the other official has a broken or severely dirty form. At the same time, many of the PPP's buildings are also able to maintain their clothing continuously, i.e. wash, dry and iron. In addition, the authorities have cooperation partners in the regions for the maintenance of uniforms and for the provision of minor improvement services. I would like to point out once again that the failure so far in the procurement of new types of uniforms has not prevented the Police and Border Guard Board from purchasing the uniforms currently in use. In the calendar year, 3699 staff members orientately renew their uniforms, including an initial set of uniforms issued to approximately 200 staff members. With regard to personal responsibility, there is so much preparation for the appointment of the Deputy Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board in the field of assets. The final decision to recruit is made by the Police and Border Guard Board within the next few weeks. The current Deputy Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board in the field of assets, Mr. Tuisk, left this office of his own accord a few weeks ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U9	Questions for the Minister. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U10	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! It's all pretty, but it's pretty thin and empty. The border guard has been with the police for seven years and during that time no green border guard form has been obtained. What you're talking about was bought from somewhere in the camping equipment company: some kind of camping pants that don't fit in with this other official border guard uniform in color. Older servants have helped them, including I have donated a pair of green uniforms to the men. So this is bullshit. As I understand it, you still have no one responsible for this matter. Or is it deliberate? Let them walk in the woods as they please?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U11	Thank you. You can afford what you want. I dare tell you that I am also responsible for the profession. If you have information that no one had pants and you gave them to him, please come and tell me who you specifically gave them to. So we're conducting an investigation into why that man didn't have pants. That's point one. Point two is, as I have read to you, that the Police and Border Guard Board is constantly supplementing the equipment of old, but untapped, people serving on the border guard lines. There is no point in making large, large-scale purchases of old uniforms when a new procurement is coming. And I hope that, since these procurements have been audited, restructured and new procurements are going to be "pieces" (almost 15 procurements will be within one), each piece can be checked separately. So there's gonna be a new generation of uniforms and that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U12	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U13	Thank you. It's a pleasure that you assure us that all the police and border guards have their pants on. We really believe that, we never doubted that, but the question is what they are. As I understood from what you said, there will be appropriate pieces of clothing or uniform being obtained, which will ultimately lead to one having the same pants, the other having different pants. The Defence League in the early 1990s remembers when everyone had their own clothes: who had a Russian uniform, who had a Swedish uniform, who had his own stitches. Do we really have to fear, in the 100th anniversary year of Estonia, that the appearance of our police and border guards will remain dubious, to put it mildly?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U14	Thank you. Again, I would like to stress that please provide me with concrete examples of where it has been necessary to criticise the uniforms of a police or border guard when performing his duties. It is very welcome, it must be fixed, because the person and his superior are responsible if the requirements for wearing the form are not met. As far as the procurement is concerned, please listen or read the verbatim report I said earlier. Getting out doesn't go to pieces in the sense that we're ordering socks and hats from one place to another. It's a process that comes from the outside. For example, to obtain material, clothing is purchased, but another thing is how the uniform is handled in police warehouses. We are talking about the process of how the form moves from production to man. We tried to make a single procurement at the Police and Border Guard Board since 2015, which describes all the need. But, as I said, the PBA failed precisely because no one in Estonia has ever tendered for such volume and nuances, i.e. from the beginning to the end full service.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U15	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, As we know, the PBA has started a joint procurement with the Defence Forces to acquire new automatic weapons. This is very welcome and shows that cooperation between ministries is still possible in Estonia. But my question is about the guns of the police officers. I hear they're gonna replace the Walthers they bought not long ago, and most police officers are still hanging out with the Makarovs. What are the developments with regard to pistols?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U17	Thank you. These activities are being carried out right now. The last major procurement involved handguns when 1000 Walther pistols were acquired for eastern border guards in 2014. In 2017, in the current year, we are talking about getting a 3740 Glock gun for the rest of the staff. So at the beginning of next year, I think Makarov may be going to the police museum, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U18	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Regrettably, this story reminds us that we cannot obtain one place at a time, the story we heard here weeks ago, that we cannot obtain 10 million worth of ammunition. During the year, it will not be possible to obtain 10 million worth of ammunition. These are positions of dubious value. But my question specifically concerns form procurement and I will try to tie the search together. I remember the police procurement failed some time ago, and it was declared unsuccessful. As we know, there was a problem with corruption, and one or two people were forced to leave. Were these two procurements somehow related?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U20	Thank you. In this sense, you are right that, in fact, the procurement of the Police and Border Guard Board is the same procurement: forms were obtained for the entire agency, both green and blue, and, if necessary, all other forms. And you are right in this too, I will tell you in detail that the first full-service purchase of a new type of clothing was announced on 16 June 2015 and was closed on 4 December 2015. Reason: rejection of tenders. I promise I'll fix you here. The question is that no one in Estonia has ever been able to offer a full service of this magnitude. We are not talking about us wanting to get boots for some amount of money, for example, or that it is necessary to obtain ammunition to protect the state, as you said. In this case, full-service procurement means services from the production, cutting and sewing of the material to the storage of the form and also from the warehouse. Or, as they say, full service is handling the form from start to finish. That's what I mean by full service. For this reason, this first call for tenders also failed, because no one was able to offer such a full service on the Estonian market. And in this last, third procurement, what the police are doing right now, the full service is divided into separate services, they go that way. I'm telling you, I've been distracted by the issue of uniforms since I went to this post, and I've been keeping an eye on it. Audits have been carried out and they've looked at what's wrong. The police now take into account all the omissions that have occurred in this process in previous years. I will tell you that I will continue to look at it so that this third call is final and that the police and border guard will be in their renewed form. But once again, it doesn't mean we're missing a uniform right now. The old template has been procured for EUR 5.17 million between 2013 and 2017.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U21	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U22	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, you asked us to give examples. In my opinion, Mr Kaskpeit gave examples, concrete and personal. We all understand that if we start pointing the finger very specifically at the official who's complaining, we're gonna get him in trouble. But we do not think that the Minister is responsible for all the concern. I remember that for seven years, there has been a sequel to getting new clothes, but the result has not yet been achieved. Here's my question. We have 300 or 400 green border guards who need these uniforms, and we're talking about some kind of complex procurement. Are we really living in this kind of socialism in 2017? These people have not been clothed for seven years in a row. Maybe there's something wrong. My main question is: shouldn't those people who haven't done it so far be looking for a new job?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U23	Thank you. I say, once again, in a hurry, that I will answer this complex question from behind forward. For example, we are currently in the process of looking for personnel to find a deputy director-general of the police in the field of property. The previous Deputy Director-General, Tuisk, has left his seat, of his own accord, but he has left. Well, I guess that's what he has to ask himself why he made that decision, or the Director-General, but I still think there are obvious links here. That's one thing. The second thing I want to emphasise once again: we have arrangements. The Police and Border Guard Board must respond to them. There is also a procedure such as a procedure for wearing a form. And if somebody wears a uniformless element, he's gonna ruin the order. When we talk about the state system, I do not see any problem when we are informed that one or the other, whether he is a constable or a border guard, has worn the form in any way wrong, in a form that does not meet the requirements. This certainly does not mean any punishment, rather a distraction and a serious conversation with his direct superior, who must arrange for his people, as they say, to stay in proper shape, whether in terms of uniforms or physical training. So here you go! I don't think we should be afraid of that information. Let me stress one more thing. If we look at the culture of carrying out the general form of Estonian police and border guards, and how they are moving on the street in this form, especially now, during the Presidency, they have been more visible to us, whether on the border or on the street patrol, and we also see that the trust of Estonian people in police and border guards has not fallen an ounce, but rather increased, I cannot agree with the spelling that we have this culture of wearing the form below all kinds of records. So I would like to emphasise once again: if there are individual examples, they must be dealt with, not generalised. That has also been my working principle. I take your examples very seriously. I also seriously look forward to the information on the basis of which you claim that there is a police or border guard at a border inspection post or another service post on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, or at other times, that he must always be dressed properly, in some way, in breach of the requirements. If so, it is deplorable and requires intervention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U24	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Võru Abris has claimed that they are able to produce all the shoes suitable for our defence forces and border guards, both in terms of material and technology. However, for some reason, the terms of the procurement have always been so laid down that they have never been able to win these procurements. To their knowledge, at least most of these shoes are imported from outside Estonia. How about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U26	Thank you. Procurement in Estonia is generally a very transparent process. And if one or the other contracting authority or the undertaking that made its tender feels that its rights have been violated in any way, then it is possible to go to court. We have hundreds of examples in Estonia where the court has suspended the procurement and a new procurement has come. As far as a particular company is concerned, I am certainly not going to comment on this, but it is still economic relations. The third thing I will emphasise once again: there will be several parts of the new procurement, rather there will be several procurements. The fact that they did not do so may have prevented them from making their bid when participating in the previous procurement. But I would like to stress once again from this remote control and even from my office that I would never, as Minister of the Interior, dissect the contents of one or the other procurement, because it would in itself be a corrupt taste.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U27	Raivo Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U28	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! It's strange to hear that they're trying to create an image here, like our PPA officials walking around like cockatoos, they don't have clothes and clothes aren't suitable either. Their form has always been developed and made more functional. What was once, in the early 1990s, is the past. But my question is this: if the procurement really takes place next year and the form is replaced, how long is it planned for the whole organization to replace this form? After all, it was only recently that officials were given previous forms, there are wearers etc. How long could this period be extended until the organisation is fully equipped with new forms? Is there an early pace, or does everything go as usual, within the "wearing times"?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U29	Thank you. I daresay from how much information I have to share right now, either way. In fact, a transitional period will be granted for the new form, including for the establishment of the corresponding rules and templates. But the heads of the Police and Border Guard Board have confirmed that if we can get it out of production into warehouses, they'd like to switch to the new uniform as soon as possible. There is also a big difference between one person and another in the ministry. In some places it may be possible to use the old uniform for some time. Above all, we are talking about the new form and the premature pace of those people who are at the forefront of the people who communicate with other people, our guests.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U30	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! You mentioned violations when you were wearing uniforms. I'm interested in the fact that you're an old police officer yourself, so what about the policemen's sunglasses? Clearly, all forms of uniforms have become more relaxed and more human-friendly for policemen over the years, as they say. But what about these glasses: when can or must be taken off, etc.? Maybe you'll analyze the sunglasses situation a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U32	Thank you. I'll be honest with you that I owe you an explanation right now, but I promise to send it to you. I think sunglasses as a form element are not prohibited. But if they are used, for example, when people are communicating with or checking their documents, I, as Minister of the Interior, would expect eyes to be opened from the other side, which I can trust. Because the police's credibility is high, you don't want to hide your eyes behind your sunglasses. But I will clarify this question because the fulfilment of these requirements lies behind the signature of the Police Director-General, is within his jurisdiction. You will receive this information and your personal opinion I have told you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U33	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U34	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, Personally, I'm a little less critical about forms, because I have to go to work a couple of times a night this week because we have a huge shortage of police officers in the country. Very many people are quitting because the average salary is not critical. But that's it. With the uniforms, as I have noticed, there is sometimes a question of discipline. It really doesn't make a good impression on an ordinary person when he sees an official on the street performing his duties, wearing a vest dirty, black, and his boots haven't seen a wrinkle or a cloth in the last three months. How do you view the situation in Estonia depending on the precinct and precinct, discipline and pure control? Before going out, does the official look in the mirror to keep the uniform more or less clean and his boots squealed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U35	As I pointed out earlier, this is certainly a matter of the care of his direct superior. The form is directly related to the performance of the duties and the supervisor must pay attention to the deficiencies. The personal care of each person is also a matter of that. People are different, of course. I think if we look around here, we don't all have shoes, we haven't been kicked. In many cases, criticism can be made that shows our attitude toward our own appearance. In the case of a police officer and a border guard, this is certainly the subject of increased attention. I think there's room for reflection to discuss such a thing, more and more. Although I stress once again that when we look at police officers in street pictures, they're mostly clean, wicker and polite. So, like I said before, I wouldn't go along with that scratch. Now, about leaving the organization and the fact that policemen's wages are out of line with all kinds of criticism. The point here is that, if you look at the Estonian state system, the police are much better off than the average in the country in terms of staff turnover. I mean, there's not as much going on as anywhere else. The second thing: the next year is the increase of 4.5% of the Police and Border Guard payroll. It's definitely a small increase, but it's still so big for the first time since the last few years. And next year, we're going to demand new numbers. Most of this wage growth goes to lower-level policemen so that we cross this magical minimum wage, or 1000 euros. And it is certainly worth stressing that next year is the first year of my offer that in the last 10 to 15 years, I do not know the details of history, as we begin to recruit nearly 200 new police and border guards. Actually, the process is already underway. Nearly half a hundred of them are constables, the rest are high-speed responders and supported by reinforcements. They give police presence in rural areas as well as in larger centres. In addition to those places where rapid response is now available, this capacity will come to Pärnu, for example, where it has not been before, and their number will also increase in Ida-Viru County. So I don't think there's ever been an increase in the number of police officers that comes next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U36	There are no further questions for the Minister of the Interior. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U37	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking of this problem, we need to look at the year 2008 to 2009, when the police and border guard law started to be developed, i.e. the destruction of border guards, in order to bring together two services with different ideologies. The Minister of the Interior was then Comrade Pihl and these two organisations were merged in 2010. This was followed by two or three years of probes and, in 2013-2014, the redesigning of the police form of border guards in the Western region and at border crossing points began. On the green border, they were unable to put on a blue uniform because it is not compatible with the surrounding nature and landscape. The Minister had a good proposal for the names of those who have been given clothes. If I were to name those sub-units or names, these people, knowing the current police system, wouldn't be working there the next day. Some small purchases of hiking equipment companies have been made, but all these clothes are different from the green uniforms of border guards. All the purchases that have been made in seven years have failed. The situation at the border, however, is as I said before: older servants have brought on all their scraps to the younger ones. Even so, they also wear worn and patched clothes. The minister could go there and look around himself. In addition to the fact that you have destroyed the border guard, you cannot even dress existing workers in a uniform. It is sad to see all this as we go against our country's anniversary. Who's to blame? If you look at the recent history, there have been three prominent parties throughout this period: the great Fatherlanders, the IRL, the Reformers and the Soccer. Good luck, gentlemen, destroying our national defence and internal security! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U38	The members of the Riigikogu have no more desire to participate in the negotiations, but the Minister does. Please, Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U39	I wasn't planning on it, but I decided to come here. It is difficult to hear in this Chamber when people who are also doing their jobs at the border are condemned and it is said that the entire system, or national security, has been destroyed. These sentences, frankly, cause embarrassment in me as a minister, in fact, as a citizen of the Republic of Estonia, as well as a former police officer who has worked for the police for more than 20 years. The merger of police and border guards was a difficult decision, but certainly the right decision to look back on it today. We have never had a more coherent reactive system than we do now: the first border line, the second border line, the rapid reactioners in Tartu. We also have helicopters, which we all use for the same value, so that the state border is also covered when moving inwards. Many of the problems that were still more than ten years ago when I was in the police department, working for the Central Criminal Police, have been solved. I remember very well this so-called land and border sharing. Who is involved in what misdemeanor or crime? Who, for example, deals with a human smuggler when he's at the internal border? Who will deal with this if a drug dealer is caught within 20 metres of the border crossing point? There are no problems today, the system works: there are uniform databases and proper equipment. You said I could go to the border. You know, I think that over the last year I've worked as a minister, I've visited this border more than many previous ministers. Maybe every few months I've gotten there, whether it's Narva or our southeast border. I've taken a look at the border and talked to the men. I have studied how to work with the local population, how to work with the constables, but also, for example, with the Alarm Centre or the Southern Prefecture, to find out how this organism works inside it. And everything works. The Estonian state is facing its largest domestic investment, which we are currently implementing. This is building our eastern border. Unfortunately, we have an eastern border 20 years later, which should have been done earlier, which will be one of the most modern in the world. But throwing empty words from this remote control is always the easiest thing: to come and say and go away without taking any responsibility. I dare say I've spoken to the men and women who work on the border. I know what they look like, what form they're in. I haven't seen a reason to put my pants on them. They are much better equipped than many people who work in a much higher pay position and who, in my opinion, could always invest more in their appearance. So what I'm saying is, let's keep and love our country. Let us criticize when there is a need, but let us also think about these expressions when we speak about our country, some sort of destroyed internal security structures... You go to the border and see! There's nothing destroyed, people's eyes are shining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U40	I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U41	The following inquiry has been submitted by Jaak Madison, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U42	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On 22 November, including the seven members of the Conservative People's Party, submitted an inquiry to Mr Tõnis, the Minister of Finance, entitled 'Employer on the basis of the special incentive scheme for passenger cars'. The reason for the inquiry was the statement made by Mrs Evelyn Liivamäe, Head of Tax and Customs Board at the PwC conference. He called on all the good Estonian people to complain that if their neighbors also use their car for work travel for private travel, they should also inform the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. Of course, the new tax system has also raised a great deal of questions in businesses, and it certainly does not improve the business environment. We had three questions about this whole story. The first is, above all, about the mentality of the complaint: has the Ministry of Finance ordered Mrs Liivamägi to make such calls? If such an order has not been given, perhaps the minister will explain whether Mrs Liivamägi has been discussed and condemned by her behaviour, which calls for a head complaint, will encourage it. Our second question is whether economic operators have been consulted before such a change is implemented. How do they feel about the possibility that if they come from a local store, maybe the neighbor will take a picture and send it to the IRS right away? And the third question is why the Ministry of Finance is working on developing new bureaucratic measures. It is well known that this has a negative impact on the business environment and that there is already a great deal of complaints about the over-bureaucratic tax environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U43	The question is answered by Finance Minister Toomas Tõniste. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Inquiries! On 22 November, you submitted an inquiry in which you were interested in the basis of the employer's special incentive scheme for passenger cars. I will answer the questions you have asked. The first question: 'It seems that the Ministry of Finance wants to introduce a mentality of inaction in society. Why and by whose orders? " The Ministry of Finance does not carry out such a mentality, and no one has received such an order. The same applies to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, the head of which Valdur Laid has publicly explained this issue. Question 2: Have economic operators been consulted on the implementation of this amendment? How do they view the possibility of complaining? ' The legislation governing the taxation of the use of the employer's passenger cars is not exceptional in Estonian tax law. In a number of cases, it is business organisations that have considered it necessary to disclose information on the payment of taxes, since healthy competition can only work well if the rules are the same for everyone not only on paper but also in practice. For example, public figures on the number and turnover of companies, as well as on the sum of the national taxes paid and the sum of the separate taxes on labour are available. If you accept a situation where an honest paying company has to compete with a non-taxing competitor day by day, both economic development and the state budget will lose out. I have not been in the process of drafting and adopting the bill to change the tax rules for passenger cars, but I know that the Ministry of Finance worked closely with business organisations. They were met and discussed many times and various options were carefully considered. Although, as a result of the analysis, the best way to reflect the price of the special advantage is to calculate the special benefit based on the market value of the car, this change was not chosen as it would have been difficult both for undertakings to introduce and for the tax authorities to verify. As passenger car capacity is very closely correlated with market prices, difficult to manipulate in terms of taxation, and taking this as a basis does not increase the administrative burden on operators, it was decided to use a capacity-based approach to calculate the special advantage. The system in place will take better account of the value of the benefit received by the employee and will be simpler and clearer. A traffic register statement that an employer's passenger car is used exclusively for professional use is public information according to the law. This does not mean, however, that the Tax and Customs Board will continue to examine each individual case. The Tax and Customs Board uses a risk-based approach to check the correctness of tax payments to channel its resources, in particular to deal with major and systematic tax evasion cases. And the third question: 'Why is the Ministry of Finance working on the development of new bureaucratic measures, although it is known that even greater restrictions on businesses will have a negative impact on the business environment, which has already been overly bureaucratised? " Changes in the taxation of employers' passenger cars do not increase, but reduce bureaucracy. The abolition of the obligation to keep records of private travel, i.e. the so-called diary, also in the case of private passenger cars, and the clear and uniform basis of taxation for everyone will significantly reduce bureaucracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U45	Questions for the Minister. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U46	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! The question is this: have you, or have someone from the Ministry of Finance been in contact with Mrs. Liivamägi, who made such a call? She's not exactly a random lady from the street who can say what she wants and what spit brings in her mouth. He is, however, Head of the Tax and Customs Board's Tax Department, who made such a call at a public conference and called it the neighborhood watch effect. Has it been overlooked in the Ministry of Finance, indifferently treated, or even silently favored, or has it been condemned and discussed with him on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U47	Thank you for your question. Personally, I've never met her, and I haven't talked to her about it. Somehow I think the head of the IRS is, but I haven't asked him. In fact, he was performing at a conference where he was just saying that there was also a part of the neighborhood watch. After all, everyone has had the opportunity to share information with the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, and it cannot be denied to anyone today so that they can no longer do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U48	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U49	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, do you not think, however, that in a free society, an entrepreneur should decide whether he will give any of his employees or many employees the right to use trade cars for personal travel without the state interfering, repression, tax and punishment? Or are we really moving towards some sort of Stalinism when it was possible for people to be sentenced to five years in prison or 25 years for stealing two grain heads? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U50	Thank you. I think that the original system, when a reasonable amount of the special preferential tax on the passenger car was introduced, worked well. It was changed here about ten years ago when the special incentive tax was doubled and it was also expected to generate twice as much revenue in the budget. But the result was that it was not until three years later that this income reached the same level as it was before. Such changes will not work. The changes that will enter into force on 1 January will make this system less bureaucratic and will actually bring it back to what was about ten years ago. And it wins about 70% of passenger cars with less than 130 kilovolts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U51	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U52	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Personally, I am not in favour of this system either, but it would be clearer and easier if, for example, the Danish system, which gives cars license plates of different colours, was approached. The use of the car for private purposes is marked by a white and a yellow plate for professional use. When the car is used for both purposes, the numbers are white and the letters are yellow. Have you started looking for simple solutions with the registration centre, which would also help to collect this tax in a much more basic way, for example by registering license plates? Please indicate what the expected revenue and administrative costs of this system, i.e. the cost of the verification procedure, are compared to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U53	Thank you. As the public heard during the proceedings, this possibility of coloured plates was considered very seriously, but due to criticism by business organisations and the public, it was rejected. The concern was that it would be more conducive to an even stronger neighborhood watch. Perhaps it was feared that the Estonian Tax and Customs Board's information lines would be red all the time, that people would be happy to be able to report immediately if they saw this colour plate somewhere, either at the kindergarten or at the store. This system, which will now be in place, is a compromise which was found to be the most sensible, in cooperation with the various parties involved. I don't have any specific information about the second part of the question right now, but if I have to, I can send it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U54	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U55	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. When the Riigikogu started working on this law and these changes, you were probably an entrepreneur, and you probably also had a passenger car at the company. So how did you look at the matter: either the Riigikogu is doing the right thing, or you would have liked to go on with the old system?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U56	Thank you. Let's just say I think some regulated system is good. If the employer's car is used for personal travel, it is reasonable that it also pays a moderate premium. If it's too much, it's what happened in the meantime. It was cheaper to fill out the driving diaries, but everyone had an ax over their heads. There was a danger that if they came to check, there'd be some minor violations. The system that you are offering, if you use a work car for personal travel, will also pay a reasonable amount, and that is the end of it. In any case, it will be less bureaucratic and easier for the business environment. Here is just the other side, too, that it would be good if everyone were to play by common rules of play, it would not be so that honest companies who pay taxes have to look critically at others who do not comply with the rules all the time. This is also helpful in this regard, but, as I said before, it is certainly not the aim of the tax administration to take on this first and foremost.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U57	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U58	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! I don't understand that reasonable amount of talk. Companies that have bought a car have paid for it first and they have also paid VAT to the state. They still pay excise duty for fuel and pay labour taxes. Now they just found another place to fuck people. There are two aspects. Would you be so good as to tell us what this amount is, what the state is hoping to get into the state budget by bullying this company? And secondly, do you think that this amount deserves that in Estonia, where there could be more entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial people, the image of entrepreneurs is further reduced and people's desire to engage in entrepreneurship is reduced by being stigmatised?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U59	Thank you. As I said before, this liver has been around for many years. Now this tax is simply becoming less bureaucratic. And it is estimated that this figure will also be reduced to around 70% of passenger car users who use work cars for personal travel. If I remember correctly (I do not have exact numbers in my head), then the order of magnitude of the budget remains the same as it was before. I think the country's even a little bit, a few million, less.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U60	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Unfortunately, I didn't have or heard what Evelyn Liivamägi said exactly at this conference in PricewaterhouseCoopers. On the basis of an inquiry by the EKRE, I ask you to speculate. Suppose that such a speech was there and people were, however, urged in a sense to "keep the watch of their neighbours." Please speculate how actively an Estonian person or Estonian society is prepared for such neighborhood surveillance and reporting to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U62	Thank you. It is very difficult to speculate. I haven't looked myself into how much this hotline is used. We will see if this law is now in force, if more calls will be made after this call. It was perhaps not an appeal, it was just information: when he spoke of the law, he spoke of these possibilities. But knowing Estonians, it can be said that if some neighbors do better than others, some people may be tempted to call somewhere and ask if everything is in line with the law. And as I said before, we can't ban it. It is a matter of how much the tax administration gets to deal with this information, and it has its own priorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U63	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U64	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, does the Ministry of Finance pay this tax on its cars? For example, if you drive a service car and stop by the store, do you have to pay any taxes, or do you turn a blind eye to it? And another thing: we still didn't get an answer on the amount that the state is planning to get in this deal. You come here to answer such a question, but this is not the case at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U65	Thank you. I haven't checked, but I've been asking about it. And I've been told that my car I'm driving is also paying a special discount. So that should be all right. And in answer to the second question, I can send you this exact number. Really, you didn't have that question here. If it had been, I would have come here with an exact number. But if I wish, I can have it sent to you tomorrow, so this problem can be solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U66	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U67	Thank you. In my opinion, there are an enormous number of questions about this law. One example is that, regardless of the age or value of the car, everyone gets hit with the same measure, both for a small family business and for a huge, rich company who knows what luxury kisses they can afford. It actually ruins our small business, which is Estonia's main forms of enterprise. The second question is that you say you don't know how much the IRS is going to monitor this kind of thing. You can be sure that if the state, i.e. the government, encourages a complaint, it will encourage it, perhaps the tax administration will be very eager to do the same. Don't you think this is a direct movement towards a totalitarian, command and ban state?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U68	Thank you. I'm gonna start answering from behind. As I said at the beginning in my answer to one question, the state does not engage in the introduction of such a mentality: no one has been ordered to spy on anyone or complain of anyone. To answer this question for small and large companies, the fact is that if you have a car older than five years, then the special preferential tax obligation is also a quarter lower. And the obligation to pay the special preferential tax also depends on the capacity of the car. Thus, if a very rich person wants to buy a very powerful machine, its price is actually higher in terms of a special preferential tax. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U69	There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U70	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, those who have endured! Yes, of course, the Minister responds within the limits of his competence and on the basis of the compromises and agreements reached in his political agenda and coalition. But we don't have to accept it, and we don't have to be satisfied with it. I'm afraid we've learned that we're not going to be forced to complain. We call on people to complain and, of course, when they complain, we take this into account and we process it. In other words, it is exactly what came out of our questions, too, that the mentality of spying and snooping is accepted in the country. This is not acceptable to us free citizens. Just as it is not acceptable that, in order to get a few million more into the state budget, entrepreneurs are literally being bullied. After all, there are a wide range of entrepreneurs. I know people who live in Tallinn, but work in a development centre in Rae municipality, a techno-village, and who have been given a car by the employer to all people who go from Tallinn to work without exception. It is very expensive for this company to pay these taxes. He has not tipped off whether people come to work or when they go from work, they also stop at the Ülemiste Centre to make their purchases there so that they can put meat on their children's pan. Of course, he doesn't tease like that. It is exactly the same with a small entrepreneur who may not be able to pay a considerable salary. He or she shall pay a minimum wage for which he or she cannot lease a car and shall be obliged to lease it as a company car. This entrepreneur is now going to pay more taxes, and he must seriously wonder if it makes any sense for him to continue in the same way. I think it is outrageous, honourable free partyers, that I do not understand well when you are talking about some sort of different colour plates here. After all, it would be a totalitarian society if we had different colors of license plates to start putting people into categories. You're an entrepreneur, we're watching your car, and we're gonna pedestal you. Let's take down seven of your skin. You're a private person from you, we'll take you in a different way, with all the excise duties that we're raising to heaven. You're forced to go to Latvia to buy gas. So you're the one we're dealing with in a different way. But you, I don't know what character, maybe the third-color license plate is in your case, we'll see how we turn around your finger. This isn't normal! It doesn't work that way in a free society. We've been accused a lot of this remote control of how we want to ban something or someone. I don't want to, I never did. We didn't want to ban anything. We have said that certain things should not be financed by the state, perhaps all of us, but we have never wanted to ban anything. But right now we are seeing basically trying to get society going, as the government decides. We don't agree, we fight against it. And believe me, you'll fail. You're not gonna get any money from it, because there are already nice schemes in place to rent these cars that way, the other way and the third way. Figushki, Vajaja were not receiving this money, but you are creating divisions, protests and reluctance towards this government in society. It makes more sense to let go of this than to go on with this. Believe me, come to your senses! And I suggest that all those officials who call on each other to spy on each other, have a serious conversation and make it clear to them that this is not part of their duties. I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U71	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U72	Mr President! Dear Mart Helme and others! Maybe the Hatter will come back to the beginning of this debate. I agree with Mr Helme's views on this particular solution and the withdrawal of freedom, but I must point out, however, that irony, including political irony, has obviously not been understood here. In fact, this idea of painting license plates began quite a long time ago, as far as I know, at the level of the government, and hopefully it will now be buried. Indeed, the Free Party reacted with such irony that it would start by painting its own numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U73	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U74	Good Chairman! I must remind Mr Helme that I said at the beginning of my question that I do not support this tax system. I did test that example in Denmark. That's where my next of kin lives, and I'm a little familiar with life there. The question is why it does not go on more visible systems, but rather it prefers an indirect system. And it is very regrettable that a colleague cannot read political messages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U75	Members of the Riigikogu no longer want to speak. The minister doesn't either. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-11_U76	Free mike. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 4.18 p.m.
