ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! Currently 44 members of the Riigikogu announced their presence. Also members of the government, good afternoon! Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology Urve Palo and Minister of Social Protection Kaia Iva are present. As a result of the number of people who asked yesterday, I am giving an opportunity to ask an additional question during the debate on each subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U2	The first questioner is Jürgen Ligi and the first answer is Jüri Ratas. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U3	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! You are fascinated by Edgar Savisaar's obsession that things must be free of charge, but experts on public transport say that it is not so much a matter of price as comfort, speed and flexibility. That's why the land rather prefers the car, even though the bus is much cheaper than the train. If we offer one thing for free, we kill other things, we kill train traffic, kill commercial lines. That's expert opinion. How do you plan to eliminate this free bus chaos so that commercial lines do not die out (these are not going to be subsidised by the state), trains do not become empty and these free routes do not become overcrowded, as experts predict?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for raising the question. You mentioned the expert opinion. The State Chancellery commissioned an analysis of the feasibility of road user charges in 2015 and it was shown from the OECD data of the international organisation that the final consumption expenditure of Estonian households represents 14% of the transport costs of the circa, which is higher than that of the analogue countries (Poland, Scandinavia, etc.). Now, the other part of your question. First of all, we are not talking about this possibility of free public transport coming across Estonia, we are talking about internal transport connections, specifically, we are talking about 59 public transport contracts. There is another option that has been put on the table, which is that if public transport centres want to, they can tighten the routes by a certain percentage. You brought in just this aspect: car versus public transport in the country. On the one hand, it is true what you said that there is indeed a great deal of movement in the country in a private car, but there are also people who do not have a driver's license, who do not have a car, and maybe they do not have the opportunity to use the car with their children and grandchildren. For them, public transport is the only way to move from the county to the centre, for example. It has been a bearing idea for people to get all kinds of services from their homes as conveniently, operationally and frequently as possible to the county centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U5	Jürgen Ligi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U6	Thank you. It was these obsessions that I referred to at first. I didn't want to hear about them. The county is no route for man; the human route is not limited to the county. If you take passengers away from paid transport, including trains, commercial lines and longer lines, by means of free transport, how do you intend to compensate for this? One traffic expert, whose last name is Luts, maybe Hannes, has said that the end result is even greater car penetration, because bus lines with very low margins are closing down as a result. You've raised the price of the train tickets. How can two things be done at once that, on the one hand, you raise the price of train tickets, on the other hand, you distribute money to a competitor?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U7	Thank you. As always, there were a lot of questions and raises on your question. I'm trying to answer. First of all, dotations. At the moment, it has been decided, for the sake of clarity, that the subsidy for bus and coach routes will increase from EUR 21.9 million to EUR 34.8 million in the coming year. In 2019 the additional amount is already EUR 21 million. What has been the main objective of enhancing free public transport or the network? This will help to improve people's mobility, and I have already referred to one study, which will also help to reduce the transport costs of households. We still have to compare ourselves with our immediate region, as I pointed out in Latvia, Scandinavia or Poland, in such comparisons. We see that household transport expenditure is higher in Estonia. Yes, it is basically, you can say, also an ideological dispute that puts first. Indeed, this coalition has prioritised Estonia's unification in all respects of the cohesion of society, but also of transport, also of road construction and investment, to be better. Indeed, we sincerely believe that the main objective of possible free public transport or increasing the network can only be one: the more operational movement of people from home to the centre to get services from there. Those that you have outlined on the first question of operationality, cleanliness and frequency are certainly all important components.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U8	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U9	Thank you, Mr President. The free public transport scheme of Tallinn is in fact already integrated with electric trains. I think it's a lot harder to do this in the counties. The question also arises as to whether free public transport is what holds the identity of the county after the administrative reform, that there are not many other such things. But these free promises of things in Estonian politics, frankly, are very frightening, it is such a communist tendency. IRL promised free higher education in its time, now the Reform Party promises free public transport, I have heard of, in Pärnu. Is this such a new world-viewed axis that some allow free things and others count money, or what will we have to do with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U10	Thank you. We need to understand this, you certainly know this, that in every transport shoulder, in every transport connection and type of transport, there is actually a subsidy in it. For example, let's look at the ferry connection with the big islands and the small islands there is a subsidy. Let's take a look at the intra-terrestrial routes there's a subsidy. We are really talking about the fact that if the country continues to increase this subsidy, we believe that it is possible either to increase the density of the routes within the county or to turn them into free routes. Yeah, we think it's important. You gave an example of Tallinn. I have met a lot of people in Tallinn. People say that the possibility of free movement has been very important even in this capital. This is not the only ideology to make public transport more operational, better and better. Another ideology is also very important: public transport must be operational and must be separate lanes for public transport, which are very important under urban conditions. You have identified the identity of the county. I'm sure this isn't the fundamental foundation of the county identity. The basic foundation of the county identity is cultural and historical. After all, it has been our desire to make municipalities stronger by means of administrative reform and to enable them to increase their revenue base, to give them more tasks and to tell them that we trust them in carrying out these tasks. Whether it is an educational area, a field of roads or an area of hobby circles, all municipalities will be able to make decisions there on the basis of the amount that will be added to the budget next year, EUR 30 million. Whether the Reform Party supports free public transport or not (you mentioned it), I really cannot say. I also think that the claims made by the Reform Party have been confused. In one place they want it, in another place they don't want it. But I think that here in the Riigikogu you will learn this answer better than I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U11	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U12	The next question is the Minister for Social Protection, Kaia Ivale. Asks Raivo Põldaru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! The soon-to-be-implemented Income Tax Act puts beneficiaries of disability pensions and beneficiaries of disability benefits in an unequal position. A disability pension is included in the taxable income, but the disability allowance is not included. People have turned to the Chancellor of Justice as well as to the committees of the Riigikogu and the people of the Riigikogu. They find that to be a completely unequal attitude. Since there is such a problem upstairs, I wonder what your opinion as a minister is about such a distinction. Is that intentional? If not, please explain why. If you find it necessary to solve this problem somehow, when and how will it be solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U14	Thank you very much for this question. I know the Riigikogu is discussing this subject. But I may need to draw your attention first of all to the fact that this issue is not directly affected by the tax changes of next year. The fact that all income, including wages, pensions and a large part of benefits, is subject to income tax is still valid. At present, these subsidies paid under the law or the City Council Regulation are not subject to income tax either. It is true that next year, income taxation will be viewed in one pot, and these things will not be separated, but that will not change the matter. Can we say that there is an unequal treatment of the same group here? The group is the same, but the payment of the grant and the remuneration, or the payment of the financial benefit, takes place according to different bases and different principles. As I said, one is a pension and the other is a grant. Pension is another form of income. The support is currently fixed as a specific amount. After all, in other cases, we treat the situation in a similar way. For example, unemployment benefit and unemployment insurance are the same: one is taxable, the other is not. In the same way, parental benefit is taxed on income tax, but childcare allowance is not taxable. Of course, it should be noted here that we would be happy to see that unemployment benefit is more rapid instead of receiving disability pensions, as then there are other opportunities for people, such as the possibility of better rehabilitation than in the social system.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U15	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U16	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister, thank you! Apparently, other people, apart from the questioners, became more clear as to why this is the case, and they will probably no longer turn to the Chancellor of Justice or seek help anywhere. Here's my second question. As one of the social ministers, do you consider the situation that I describe to be correct? Next year, the small wage earners will have a lot of money, 500 euros is tax-free, and everything will get better, but on the other hand, people who receive a small wage will start to subsidise the budget of the Estonian state next year, because only one place can apply for relief. Do you, as one of the ministers of the ministry, find this appropriate?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U17	Thank you for that question. This is certainly such an important issue that explanations need to be provided. As we know, next year, there will be a small and, perhaps, more tax money for ordinary earners, i.e. the money they earn will be left to them. It is also true that those who earn more pay will pay somewhat more income tax because their tax-free share is lower. The question was about those who work in several places. Indeed, a worker who works in several places can apply for income tax exemption in one job. If it is not possible to take advantage of the full income tax exemption, for example, the same EUR 500, then at the beginning of next year, he will be able to recover this money by means of a tax return. For workers who at the same time are pensioners (probably most pensions are less than EUR 500), the draft law which has already been discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu and which grants them an exception is currently under way. As the pension is relatively stable in size, they can also submit another request for exemption. This means that they can benefit from both pension and salary tax exemptions, i.e. they lose the fear that they will not get the money in time, i.e. right away. There was also a possibility that there might be some additional flexibility to help people with low pay in several jobs, but there were two questions. First of all, people who work in several low-paid places are very mobile and pay can change, but the pension is well stable. After that, there may be unpleasant news if refunds are to be made. In addition...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U18	Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U19	... also the question that there are other amendments to the law relating to social tax. It is necessary to fix where this application has been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U20	I believe it needs a more thorough explanation, but the Minister should be able to do it in two minutes. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable Minister! Your words only confirm that enterprising people will be punished in the future. You are certainly right, in statistical terms, that some people can get one euro with this tax reform, but if they get a few percent raise, their incomes will start to decline quite properly. I cannot be satisfied with your opinion on the different treatment of pensioners and beneficiaries of disability benefits. You know very well that inability pensioners literally enter the disability system and if they do not enter it, they will either be cured or do not need this help. But can this target group, or pensioners, expect something similar that is so messy that people have to hire tax consultants?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U22	Thank you. The first comment is still once again on the reform of working capacity. I believe that the Minister of Health and Labour has made a great deal of effort at the moment in order to better launch this reform in order to smooth off this mess. I believe that people will still be able to win here in the long run, because we need working hands and we need a whole society. However, if you ask what changes are expected for the elderly and pensioners, you must first ask those in this Chamber not to cause unnecessary confusion but to provide adequate explanations. Next week, the Riigikogu will have a sitting-free week, and I hope that everyone will do so. But what is our news for the elderly next year? It must certainly be said that, regardless of who is a minister or who is sitting in this Chamber, pensions will be indexed again from 1 April, as is the case every year. It is estimated that 6.3% is the pension increase that awaits next year. In addition, as of 1 January, there will also be an increase in parental pension. This is the thing that was unfortunately postponed a few years ago in this Chamber. From the following year, one parent will be able to receive a pension supplement for each child, not for two years of service, but for three years of service. This is certainly an important change for the elderly. Of course, we are also preparing a pension reform, but it is not about the present, but about future pensioners. We will definitely move on with this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U23	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U24	Let's go to the next point. Arthur Talvik asks, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas responds. Please, Arthur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U25	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! You're a lucky man, you have a magician in the government. This wizard is the Minister of Finance. The finance minister gets up in the morning and says, "I found 35 million. " 35 million! It's an interesting phenomenon. Can you explain how the finance minister found 35 million this morning? Where and how? What are these tricks, how did he do it? Or is it a PR trick, is the Minister of Finance a PR wizard?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U26	Thank you, dear Arthur Talvik. Good Artur, I, too, would like this rhetorical question to be true, and the government, together with the Riigikogu and Estonia as a whole, would have this field of miracles that would say in the morning that you will see that there is an additional resource that can be used for the benefit of Estonia. But if you wake up in the morning, at best you can say it was a beautiful dream. Estonia does not have such a field. But the Minister of Finance has not quite said so, as you described, that he slept well and there were 35 million Estonian kroons in the morning under the pillow. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Eurot.'???]] No, 35 million euros under a pillow. It didn't exist. But in recent times, the Ministry of Finance has studied the economic economy very strongly. It is true that the economic conjunction is not also linked to alcohol excise; there is certainly an accompanying effect here. We have really agreed that I have also asked for it to be discussed on Thursday this week on the subject of alcohol excise duty in three respects. First of all, of course, there is the budgetary aspect, but before that, the aspect of human health, so that we can see what a reduction in alcohol consumption has given to the people of Estonia and what has happened to the heavy losses caused by alcohol consumption. Thirdly, it is the aspect of the Tax and Customs Board, what is going to become of the control function. These three things are on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U27	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U28	Good Prime Minister! Now I don't understand you. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Did the Minister of Finance find these 35 million and the increase in excise duty in this form is no longer available, or is it much smaller, or did he not find the money? Is what we read in the paper and hear on the radio a PR trick, or is it real? Will we face a smaller increase in excise duty? Please tell me directly if this is the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U29	Thank you. I told you, the office is gathering and analyzing it in three respects. It's not like you're in the Free Party that you'll know how you're doing before the meeting. Still, the meetings, analyses, and discussions reveal what is the best balance to move forward. That is also the case now, and I say it completely sincerely and honestly. There are currently no specific 35 million. The Minister of Finance certainly has some suggestions and thoughts that the office has not discussed. We are really going to have this debate. The first question is whether this moment is right or not. I have said that the right thing to do is to talk about these issues at the time of the country's budget strategy, or even when the budget is being drawn up. But what I want to say is that Estonia has a very favourable environment for tourists, tourists from Finland, Latvia and the world. We have a very high level of service, such as spas, restaurants or museums. You're talking about excise revenue. I want to tell you that, in recent months, excise duties have been very specific and clearly in response to the summer forecasts, and there is even a small overrun at the moment. If we compare Estonia with our neighbouring markets, which was also the point of your question, we can say that in Finland, the price of a bottle of beer is higher than in Estonia. We are certainly not going to make as big a rise in Estonia as is foreseen in Finland.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U30	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! During both your government and the previous government, these increases in excise duty have been very unthinkable. The Conjuncture Institute tells us that 38 million will not be collected this year, 80 million will be reported for the coming year. This is quite clearly the well-founded and proven deficit that arises in the budget. What are you gonna do if you wake up from this excise sleep? Can we expect a negative additional budget next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U32	Thank you. I agree with you that border trade is not a new thing. This was indeed the foundation of the Reform Party in the previous government when excise duties were raised. For example, in 2016, when the Reform Party was the Prime Party, legal alcohol consumption in Estonia fell by 4% and the country therefore lost 18 million euros in tax revenue. So this reference was on the other opposition party right now, I wouldn't shoot at the Reform Party like the EKRE says we're going to fire, but the idea that it started there is true. You mentioned the budget receipts. As I said, the summer forecast foresees by 2017 that the budget will be around 238 million. At the moment, data are available at the end of October, which shows that this 230 million will be filled and will rather be left over a little. The budget is currently planned for 341 million euros next year, given the fact that Estonians consume less alcohol purchased from Estonia. Of course, we must always consider how many people in our neighbouring countries drink here or buy it here. It's probably gonna get worse too. However, there is more money in the budget. The reason is in stock. For the following year, it is planned that stocks will be collected twice: before 1 February 2018 and before 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U34	Now Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will answer Madis Milling's question. Please, Madis Milling!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U35	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! We all know what a difficult security situation we are living in. We know that our aggressive Eastern neighbour, the Russian Federation, continues the aggression in Ukraine and practiced the attack of the Republic of Estonia, among other things, on its last major exercise. During the last week, conflicting information has come about Estonian defence investments. We are talking about EUR 10 million, which has disappeared from the 2018 row of defence investments. The public has been given mixed information. It also seems that there is no single understanding within the coalition. For example, Hannes Hanso, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, has also expressed his dismay at this decision. Where did 10 million euros go, and where does it go?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U36	Thank you, good questioner! Now you've asked me very interestingly. On the one hand, you said that the money kind of disappeared, that where it went, and then you asked where it was going. Good questioner, let's take a look at the broader picture first. I have to step aside a little bit, there's a member of the Riigikogu ahead, I don't see very well. As this broader picture shows, of course, there has always been a consensus policy in the field of defence in Estonia. For this, I want to thank all those people who have contributed to this for years and decades. Let's look at the broader picture of Estonian defence policy and see what happens after the NATO summit in Warsaw, for example, Tapa. We can see that there are British soldiers within the eFP, there were French soldiers, there are Danish soldiers and there are Estonian soldiers. This is a very strong sign that 29 NATO Member States want to live in peace. Next year's defence expenditure is the biggest in Estonia's history. Estonia allocates 518 million euros to the field of defence policy. Of course, this will only be done if the budget of the honourable Riigikogu is approved, and I ask you to do so. Now for 10 million. This has been one of the priorities of this government coalition to attract additional investments in the defence sector, not 10 million, not 20 million or 30 million, but a total of 60 million for 2018, 2019 and 2020. I assure you that no cent less than 60 million will go into defence investments, and mostly it will go for the purchase of ammo. None of the cents have disappeared from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U37	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U38	Thank you. Prime Minister! As we continue our former style, we must, of course, be happy that the former wage army idea of the Reform Party has now been finally removed from the agenda and that we have a real understanding in general that there is a need to contribute to national defence. But still, that 10 million makes us uneasy. It's gone. The national budget strategy provided for 20 + 20 + 20 million over three years, as you rightly said. Now you're going to reassure us that this $10 million is going to come. The draft state budget, as it came to Parliament, does not contain it. When did you find out, and when did the government find out that we would not use this 10 million to invest in the state budget in 2018? Has this been specifically deducted from the total budget so that you have been able to move the budget a little towards balance?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U39	Thank you. Our two speeches to me, Mr. Herkel, are very sympathetic today. We have often been perhaps a little different from each other. Once again, I don't know why, but for the second time today, this is the subject of the Reform Party. No, today's government doesn't support the creation of a pay army, it really doesn't. Why has this additional investment not been made in the past? It is not my place to point the finger at anyone, it is my business that today's coalition said on 23 November 2016 when we started, and on 21 November here before you, a year and a little more back to the mandate asking for this coalition priority: 60 million extra euros and not a cent less. Now two answers to your question. First of all, we must consider that 2017 is the first year when Estonia launches an accrual-based budget in terms of its finances and budget. Indeed, these rules are different than, for example, a cash-based budget. Now that 10 million question. Once again, I stress that this money has not gone anywhere. It is true that it is foreseen that the moment of emergence could also be the beginning of 2019. This is why 10 million are currently foreseen for 2018, 30 million for 2019 and 20 million for 2020. 10 + 30 + 20 is 60 million and not 59999000. Exactly 60 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U40	Madis Milling, clarification question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! If it is true that the suppliers are unable to supply Estonia with ammunition, which we very much need, then there are plenty of other power gaps in the Estonian national defence that could have been fuelled with this 10 million, whether it be the purchase of additional mobile artillery, the provision of the 2nd Infantry Brigade or the support of the Defence League, where equipment is still scarce.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U42	Thank you. You said the right thing. Of course, there are certain power gaps. That is why you are facing the highest defence budget ever presented in the budget of next year, the honourable Riigikogu, as I said, is 518 million. I can assure you with absolute certainty that these are not ministers who say whether we are buying this, this or this. The current government has wanted, wants and will continue to consult experts in its field (Ministry of Defence, Defence Forces) and that is what we have done. This analysis has identified what is best done with this additional EUR 60 million. It has been said that the best thing is to invest this money in ammunition. It stays that way. It is not the case that maybe the Prime Minister or the Secretary of Defense will say, "Come on, let's not do this, let's buy something else for the defence sector." It has been discussed with specialists, it has been discussed with the best specialists in this field in Estonia. I don't know what else to say. In fact, I want to thank you, I sincerely want to thank the Riigikogu and also you, Mr Milling, for not proposing, for example, that no, 60 million additional investments are not needed. You also see, in fact, that this is an important priority, it is also an important message to our allies, but especially to the people of Estonia, that here, in Estonia, we want to live in peace.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U43	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U44	Now answers the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology Urve Palo and asks Jaak Madison. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U45	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Under your leadership, a plan has been made to bring about 2 000 people into the ICT sector, i.e. "highly paid" specialists, especially those who are to be hired from abroad and not from Estonia. However, when reading the document, it becomes clear that this input has been obtained in particular in the course of discussions, but it is not clear who has participated in these discussions and what has been the content of the discussions. Perhaps you can give us a brief overview of where this figure of 2000 has come from? If you look at job advertisements, it turns out that businesses are currently looking for around 300 people in the ICT sector. Secondly, where has it come from that we are spending EUR 8 million to bring these people here, and what could be its economic benefits? Surely you are a very good minister and you have done a decent and thorough preparatory work, and you can also tell us numerically what might be the economic benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U46	Thank you very much, good questioner, for a very good question. There were a number of questions and it is very difficult to answer in two minutes. I'm hoping you'll ask me again, then I can take a longer answer. But I'm gonna start. First of all, why is such a subject important, and why am I dealing with it? In general terms, specialists have assessed and Statistics Estonia's forecasts show that, if we look at the period from 2016 to 2026, we will lose some 60,000 people at work. This is relatively predictable from the perspective of population pyramids. At the same time, we know that Estonian industry and entrepreneurship are relatively few automated and mechanised. If we are able to automate the traditional industry more, we will also be able to make smarter products and be more competitive in export markets, and businesses will in turn be able to pay their employees a higher salary so that the welfare of the entire Estonian population can grow. After all, that is the goal. As a result, it is known that ICT specialists would need more than 1.5 times as far as businesses are concerned. In general, it is known that all sectors in Estonia will require 37000 ICT specialists by 2020. 37,000! Much of this need is covered by training orders and existing labour force, as well as retraining, because we are very much contributing to people's retraining. That's the main thing. However, the ITL, i.e. the Association for Information Technology and Telecommunications, says that 7 000 specialists are already missing in the ICT sector. Studies among these companies show that 8600 people will already be missing in this sector by 2020. I hope we can still discuss, and I can continue to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U47	The Minister's hope will be fulfilled. Please, Jaak Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U48	Thanks! Hope really does come true. Yeah, I understand what you're saying, but I'm about to ask you the following question. How good has it been for the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to cooperate with our higher education institutions, such as Tallinn University of Technology? Have additional resources been allocated, for example, to train our own people in this area? Surely EUR 8 million is a very polite amount for which thousands of people could be trained. So here's a short and specific question. How good has it been in recent years, and how good is the cooperation between the government and the ministry with higher education institutions now, so that people in this field can study and remain in our companies on the basis of government orders? Above all, it should be our interest that young people go to study precisely in an area where there are very good job offers and jobs with higher pay, rather than going to the University of Tallinn to study social sciences, for example, because there is currently an oversupply in this field in the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U49	Thank you very much. Indeed, as I said, about 37,000 ICT specialists will be needed in 2020. We are talking about bringing these people from outside Estonia, we are talking about a maximum of 2 000 people, but 37000 specialists are missing. We will do everything to ensure that, to a large extent, these necessary specialists come from Estonia. The answer is yes, we work together, the Ministry of Economic Affairs cooperates with universities, the Ministry of Education does so naturally, training orders have been increased. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has launched a number of programmes. As they say, where you see trouble, come and help. We have launched a program like 'Choose IT! '. 500 people from all over Estonia can take courses and get ICT skills at a real specialist level. These people are studying with employers. In addition, there is basic training in digital literacy for workers in industry, bringing together a total of 3000 employees in industry and 1000 companies in industry. In addition, basic training for e-services and digital skills is also available to community representatives, who in turn help to train people with less ICT skills. The unemployment fund has launched opportunities for people who have not yet become unemployed to receive training and training. You do not need to become unemployed before you can change your speciality or take part in further training. So there are a lot of opportunities that the country has started to offer. But there's also a need to help bring in top specialists from outside. Look at our population. It's not like all people want and can't learn to be an ICT specialist, it's normal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U50	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U51	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. With a number of countries, we have a reciprocal right to free movement of labour: all the countries of the European Union as well as Australia, Japan, Canada, the USA, Switzerland and Norway. That means hundreds of millions of people. In addition, we do not have IT specialists under the immigration quota. Perhaps all Indians, Africans and Russians can, if they are IT specialists, come to work in Estonia. Yet they, as we see, or as you tell us, will not come here. How many IT specialists are there among the Estonian people who have left Estonia? Are we somehow trying to get them back, those people from England, America, or where we don't know? Is there a plan for that? Question two. If we're doing an 8 million-dollar program from the rest of the world to bring people here, which part of the world are we looking at?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U52	Thank you. First of all, I'm talking about the numbers that the first questioner asked about. I really like numbers when I'm an economic man. By the way, if we are talking about 2000 ICT specialists coming from outside Estonia to work, this is actually a very small proportion of the people we need, but still a considerable proportion, and if we consider that the level of pay in the ICT sector is still quite high, then if we also take a relatively modest fee for this area and say that 2500 euros is gross wages, and multiply it by taxes, social tax and income tax, it turns out that if these 2,000 people came to Estonia, they would generate an additional turnover for our economy of nearly 80 million euros and direct tax revenue would be nearly 30 million, 30 million each year. I did a calculation for one person on the same basis. If the salary is EUR 2500 (taking a relatively modest salary per ICT sector), one person will bring additional tax revenue to the country in one month over EUR 1200, and in six months it will already bring more than EUR 7000 in tax revenue. Our point is that, since it is really very difficult to get top specialists in Estonia that entrepreneurs are looking for, to help entrepreneurs think that bringing from outside is an opportunity, even though it is expensive, we are helping them partially to compensate for it. One-off payment of EUR 2 000 if a person has worked here for six months, that's the part. But 2,000 euros versus tax revenue, which is over 7,000 euros a country has a multiple plus. However, if you are talking about whether ICT specialists who have left Estonia could come to Estonia, of course, they are always welcome here. It's a question of pay. If our entrepreneurs are able to pay them wages that are paid in Great Britain or America, for example, they will come, but it will take time. We're not gonna be able to...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U54	...to pay it, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U55	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U56	Monika Haukanõm asks Minister of Social Protection Kaia Ivalt. Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U57	Good minister! My question is borne out of concern for those predominantly elderly people who need daily care, 24 hours a day, and unequal treatment in this area. A World Bank report was prepared in July, which pointed to systemic problems in Estonia in this area. There is too much pressure on those who are caring for themselves, we hardly contribute public money to this area, and we have said that this is the concern of the person and his family as to how it will be cared for by the elderly. Last week, there was also news that welfare institutions were forced to increase the place fee to ensure the availability of their staff. In this range, the cost will be EUR 600-1200. The average pension is 446 euros next year. What does the country intend to do to ensure that those in need receive it, without the family being trapped in poverty? In fact, the country has washed its hands right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U58	Thank you for this extremely important question. We have also enlightened this issue this year and moved forward with the development of this issue. The World Bank report is ready, and we have already used some of its conclusions, but a summary of the task force working at the State Chancellery and a report on reducing the maintenance burden are about to be completed. On the one hand, I do not entirely agree with your claim that the concern of a person's own is to care for him or his loved one, because even now, the local government has a duty to assess the ability of a family to care for a loved one, and to exclude the fact that a family could fall into a poverty trap or be seriously impaired, so this must be taken into account. Local authorities have used very different practices here and they have also had very different capacities. There's good practice and there's a difference. First of all, local authorities have been concerned about how to assess the ability of family or family members and from where onwards the support of the local government must start. This has been done by the same task force, which is available on the website of the State Chancellery. There are practical guidelines for local authorities and there are also examples to guide them. They themselves acknowledge that they want such additional material. In the first half of next year, we want to reach local governments with this guide so that they can have a tool on which to move forward. The question now, of course, is that money is needed. On the one hand, we have increased the so-called 'free money' of local governments over the next year. It is certainly my request to the new, united municipalities to take social issues very seriously and spend some of this money on them. Similarly, starting next year, a measure to reduce the maintenance load has been foreseen at national level, but I hope that I can talk about this in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U59	Thank you. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U60	Thank you. It will be great to have proposals from the task force and to have them approved by the government in the near future. Of course, yes, the obligation to assess a local authority does not guarantee that the municipality will also find a financial opportunity to help, because obviously there is a need for more system money, the question is where to get that money there. It is very often pointed out that we have two systems, a health care system and a welfare system that does not link to each other on this subject, and people just fall into a hole between these two systems. For example, care facilities do not always provide health care, although people obviously need it. Do you intend to do something to improve the functioning of these two systems and to get people to get the services they need? Do you, for example, plan to create a position to link these two systems together?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U61	Thank you. Of course, all these issues have been discussed. As I said, we have a total of 16 million planned to reduce the maintenance burden in the state budget for the next four years. One of the issues we are starting to deal with next year is the improvement of cooperation between the two sectors, the social sector and the health sector. Right now, they're sometimes dubious, and at some point, a person might get caught in these two systems. We will start a pilot project next year and we will certainly want to implement its results in order to allow for a common assessment in the future and to ensure the best possible level of human assistance. It's just one side of the story that two sectors don't get together very well every time. Similarly, cooperation between the state and local government is important. You rightly said that the local government has a duty to assess the ability of the family, but in fact it has a duty to provide assistance. This tool, which I have spoken about, is one mechanism for this, but the state also wants to support with other measures in order to make this aid more possible, namely aid for particularly complex target groups. From next year, we want to give more support to the care of dementias in order to create new places for them, and in the same way we will create a centre of competence for dementia so that these most difficult target groups can help. We also want to support local authorities and companies in this sector by the state in order to be able to create nursing homes. Just recently, the CO2 measure was able to create and improve them. We want to move forward with this measure. We will have a working meeting with the Ministry of Finance next week to prepare a new measure. If we can create better places more favourably, the service provider will also be able to do so. It is quite clear that public and public funds need to be invested there. Like I said, right now we have planned...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U63	... 16 million for four years, but we see that the annual elementary...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U64	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U65	... the need for public money is about 40 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U66	Time's long gone. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'll keep asking from here. You mentioned that there was a plan to create or develop competence centres. Are these plans any clearer? Will these centres be developed on the basis of existing nursing homes? Are they evenly distributed across the country, or do they rather come to four places in Estonia? How did you think that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U68	Thank you for this important question. In the case of maintenance, it is very important that it is known how to do it as well as possible. Today, carers also say that they have benefited greatly from the trainings and training days that they have been offered, because the right work practices also ensure that the work is done well, while also giving the carers the necessary sense of well-being. I was referring to the dementia competence center. We are planning to do this on the basis of its specifics, one across Estonia. That's probably why we're calling for a contract. It is possible to apply for it for anyone who already has experience or who has the will to do more about it. Of course, we also have some centres in Estonia to know who has done more of this because the dementias are a very special group, they need very thorough help and they also need knowledge on how to help these people. So next year, we intend to start by setting up and helping to maintain this competence centre in order to provide assistance to both nursing homes and the staff of these institutions as well as to the families where such a family member is, so as to know how to support and help him. So we definitely want to move on with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U69	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U70	Answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, asks Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U71	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! There is now a clear attack on real human rights in Estonia. These real human rights are freedom of expression, freedom of conscience, freedom of religion, freedom to organise their lives without state interference. The attackers are known to us, they're fake human rights activists, or homo-activists. We can all have our own understanding of things. They demand complete obedience and undisputed acceptance of their radical left-wing agenda, including their desire to call marriage a same-sex relationship. We actually touched on this issue last week, I mean the Centre for Human Rights. I would like to point out once again that this centre of human rights is publicly funded. What does the government intend to do to protect real human rights from such vile, disgusting attacks?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U72	Thank you, Mr Helme. As I said last time, you have come to forcefully defend that no one is under attack. It's really good. You really don't have to give fire to anyone here. But I remember that last time in this honourable Riigikogu Question Time we had a discussion where you defended the fundamental principles of the Estonian Constitution. You're asking why the government decides these things. This is certainly the basis of § 12 of the Constitution. It clearly states that everyone is equal before the law, that no one must be discriminated against because of nationality, race, colour, sex, language, origin, religion, political or other beliefs, property and social status, or other circumstances. If you ask what these fundamentals are, I will point out in my reply to you that I do not think we can get over here or around the constitution, our lovely constitution. The next extract is from § 40, which clearly states that everyone has freedom of conscience, religion and thought. Let's keep going. Paragraph 19 (2) of the Constitution also states specifically that everyone must respect and respect the rights and freedoms of other people when defending his or her rights and freedoms and fulfilling his or her obligations, and I stress the rights and freedoms of others, and I respect the law. These are the fundamental views that come from our constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U73	Honourable Members of the Government! Honourable Riigikogu! In the remaining 45 seconds, nothing can be done. Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U74	We will begin the session of the 9th working week of the plenary session on Wednesday. Transfer of enquiries and drafts. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U75	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! There's a bill to hand over. It wishes to change the procedure for Riigikogu elections and local government council elections so that the compensation mandates are further divided in such a way that, first of all, those candidates on the respective list receive the highest percentage of votes in their constituency. This is also called the "open list" principle from time to time. We want the Riigikogu to discuss and treat this draft in such a way that there is a reasonable time before the next Riigikogu elections. We have good practice that it is generally done more or less a year earlier. I have to say here, as historical evidence, that drafts have been submitted earlier, not only during the current composition of the Riigikogu, but also during previous formations. Most political parties have expressed their support for this principle, perhaps only the Centre Party, as I recall, and the Reform Party has not done so. Remembering the past, it can be said that with similar content, there was at all the first draft initiated by the Free Party Group in the Riigikogu. This bill concerned the elections to the Riigikogu. Its first reading was completed, but it remained in the drawer. The Riigikogu acted inconsistently: if we brought the same problem before the Riigikogu in view of the local government, or Tallinn, our draft was rejected. Now both of these principles are united and we hope that this draft will be treated sensibly one year before the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U76	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U77	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group, I present an inquiry to the Minister of Finance, Toomas Tõnis. The subject is the basis for the employer's special incentive scheme for passenger cars. From the beginning of 2018, the new employer's special incentive scheme for passenger cars will apply, according to which the company will have to inform the Road Administration if the company's passenger car is also used for private travel. The Road Administration adds the signs to the public traffic register, which gives everyone the opportunity to inform the Tax and Customs Board if there is any doubt that the company's car will be used for private travel. A similar call was recently made by Evelyn Liivamägi, Head of the Tax and Customs Board's Tax Department, at a conference where she called this possibility a neighborhood watch effect because people can monitor whether cars are used only for business travel and inform the Estonian Tax and Customs Board about this. We therefore have three questions, which the Minister will certainly answer very thoroughly. First of all, it seems to us that the Ministry of Finance wants to introduce a mentality of social inaction. Why and by whose orders? Secondly, before implementing this amendment, were economic operators consulted and how do they view the possibility of complaining? Thirdly, why is the Ministry of Finance working on the development of new bureaucratic measures, although it is known that even greater restrictions on businesses will have a negative impact on the business environment, which is already over-bureaucratized? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U78	The draft and the inquiry submitted to the Management Board shall be taken into account in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. Incoming check, please! There are currently 81 members of the Riigikogu. In order to clarify the agenda, I would say so much that, during the debate on the ninth agenda item, the rapporteur for the Commission is Rainer Vakra, President of the Commission, at first reading of draft 533.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U79	Let's start working on the Wednesday agenda items. First of all, the Government of the Republic has initiated the third reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. No requests, let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, since draft 453 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership to be adopted as a law, then, please, the verification of presence! 83 members of the Riigikogu are currently present. Igor Gräzin, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U80	Hi! I wanted to ask you this question: what did this mean by the sentence you said, 'Because the draft requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, then do the verification of the presence'? What does that mean 'cause... then... '? What's the logical connection here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U81	Since the law of the house and the rules of procedure requires it, we'll do a check-in. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (amending the treatment of juvenile offenders) 453. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu voted against and none opposed, with one abstention. The law amending the Penal Code and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U82	Third reading of the draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2017 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U83	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The preparation of this draft third reading was carried out by the Commission on 14 and 20 November. It was noted that no amendments were received by 15 November at quarter six. The Commission has reviewed the table of amendments. The first amendment has been drawn up on the basis of proposals received from ministries and other public authorities, and the second amendment is an entry into force provision. There was only one question during the debate. A member of the Commission was interested in what has to do with the Knighthood Building and our defence policy or the Ministry of Defence. As it turned out a few seconds later, it was a humorous question put in half. However, by the end of the evening, the Ministry of Finance made it clear that there is no house, no activities. The additional sentence was also explained in the table of amendments. All decisions were taken by consensus: it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 22 November and put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U84	Questions for the waitress. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U85	Good manager! Good waitress! Today is the birthday of one of our colleagues who happens to be one of the authors of our Bible, the Constitution. My question to you is that maybe we should congratulate him in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U86	As the Constitution was discussed, I understand that it should be my colleague, Jüri Adams, if I am not mistaken. Yes, our congratulations, congratulations from the Centre Party Group to our colleague. That was the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U87	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Two amendments were tabled for draft 510, both tabled by the lead committee. The first amendment and the second amendment. The amendments have been examined and the Commission's proposal has been put to the final vote on the draft. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the State Budget Act 2017 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There were 49 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 510 as a law, no one opposed and 20 abstentions. The Act amending the State Budget Act 2017 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U88	Second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, 'Accepting the State's 2016 Annual Summary Report'. Financial Committee waitress Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U89	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The text is almost the same. We discussed the draft on 14 and 20 November. No amendments were received by 15 November at quarter six. The whole discussion in the Commission was on one issue. A colleague asked what amendments could be tabled here. In fact, they can only be done for this text, which is on the first page, all the rest are explanations, annexes, etc. The answer to this was that, in fact, one might propose that more attention be paid to one direction or another, or that further analysis be carried out, etc. After that, procedural decisions were taken. It was decided to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that this draft be sent to the large hall by today, 22 November and put to the final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U90	No questions for the waitress. Thank you, Mikhail Stalnukhin! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic to approve the State's summary report for the financial year 2016 500. Please take a stand and vote. There were 66 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the decision, no one opposed, with 3 abstentions. The Riigikogu's decision to approve the State's consolidated financial report for the financial year 2016 has been adopted. The manager's break is five minutes. The waitress will be here any minute. We'll proceed at 2:24 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U91	We will continue to deal with the items on the agenda. Second reading of the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 513. The rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U92	Hello, Mr. Chairman. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We have already discussed draft 513 in this Chamber once. The deadline for tabling amendments has expired and it must be acknowledged that amendments to this draft were received. I will present to you these amendments and their fate in the Commission. It is certainly the last word in this Chamber, as we have in the Rules of Procedure. As with one law yesterday, today it is a situation where the title of the law has changed from the original one, so we will then deal with the law on the salaries of senior civil servants and, in this connection, the law on the amendment of other laws. Perhaps you will remember that this bill came to this hall as a law amending the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office. This is where the discussions have changed. In the future, the State Attorney General, whose salary coefficient is 0.85, will be found in this Law on the salaries of senior civil servants, but the salaries of all other prosecutors, from the leading state prosecutor's point of view, will be linked to the salary of the state Attorney General by means of the coefficients system. For example, the Public Prosecutor's Office Act further states that the Chief Public Prosecutor's salary is 95% of the national prosecutor's salary. All other differences concerning Ida-Virumaa and also the pension system of prosecutors have remained the way that the draft had originally been. § 10 of the Act is planned to enter into force on 1 January 2018 and § 2 (4) of the Act from 1 March. Our colleagues from the Reform Party Arto Aas, Kalle Laane and Lauri Luik have tabled an amendment aimed at raising the highest wage rate for senior civil servants from the current EUR 5200 to EUR 6500. This amendment was under discussion, but was not taken into account in the commission, because this proposal, which has nothing to blame for, did not have sufficient support from the political groups here in the Riigikogu. Arto Aas, Kalle Laanet and Lauri Luik also proposed the following amendment, according to which the salary coefficient of a member of the Riigikogu would be 0.75 instead of 0.65. This amendment, too, was not taken into account by the commission. Amendment 5, which has nine signatures, concerns this so-called consensus proposal and the further indexation of the salary rate of senior civil servants. This amendment received unanimous support from the Commission. Just as a reminder, I'll tell you where that dog is buried or where it's been buried. In recent years, the same salary number has been indexed at all times, which is either reduced or not changed at all, but now there is such a paragraph in the draft: 'In addition to the indexation provided for in § 21 of this Act, the highest wage rate in the following year is considered to be the highest wage rate resulting from indexation in the previous year. " Perhaps in reality, this salary will change in the light of economic circumstances. We expect him to rise, but in bad years, when this country comes down, for example, to the number two, he could fall. How this index is calculated, you'll have an understanding of that already. The President of the Republic of Estonia, the members of the Riigikogu and the ministers of the government deserve to be repeated first and foremost for the auditorium outside this hall: all of them will be subject to this change from the beginning of the mandate of the next Riigikogu. Amendment 7 has been initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This concerns the representation expenses of the State Attorney General, the Auditor General, the State Secretary and the Chancellor of Justice, which are set at 20% of the salary. This is a dubious process. On the one hand, it is about making higher civil servants pay in the same way and, on the other hand, reading these officials here, it is clear that they have a comprehensive and wide-ranging external communication. The eighth amendment provides for an amendment to the Development Monitoring Act, the Courts Act and the Labour Dispute Resolution Act. These amendments relate to the fact that these laws are also based on the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants. For example, a member of the Development Monitoring Advisory Board is multiplied by the highest wage rate, highest wage rate index and multiplier 0.04. As a result of this recalculation, this relationship may even seem a little weird, but that's what it is. The ninth amendment relates to the amendments proposed by the members of the Reform Party concerning the salary rate and the highest wage rate of a member of the Riigikogu, which was the date of entry into force. This, too, was not supported, as their previous amendments were not supported either. I have now presented amendments. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of this draft law and put it to a final vote on 6 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U93	Questions for the waitress. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U94	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! My question concerns Amendment 7, which you have already introduced, but I would like to clarify a few things. We have, of course, such a practice that certain proposals are being tabled on behalf of the Commission. However, this proposal probably did not arise in the minds of the Members of the Commission at one time or another. Somewhere, every thought has a beginning, a source. Where did that come from? Would you perhaps talk a little bit more about the progress of the debate that has been brought about in the Commission? The explanatory memorandum states nicely that this would ensure equal treatment. Indeed, perhaps that is the case, but this can also be guaranteed in a different way, for example, so that such representation expenses and our expenses are taken away, right? Was such an opportunity in the Commission, for example, as an intellectually interesting point of view? Please tell me more about all this!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U95	Thanks for the question! This second option, in order to eliminate the entire system of representation costs, was not under consideration. Now for a similar approach. In 2015, the Law of the Courts was amended here in the Chamber and it laid down the representation costs of the President of the Supreme Court, 20% of the salary. By analogy, these other officials have also come into this line. As regards whether all the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs shared this issue, this was certainly a point where there was no consensus in this form. I don't remember the exact result of the vote, I think I have it here somewhere, but no, it wasn't a general idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U96	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U97	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu are not the heads of authority; they clearly have some kind of economic costs that could respect their decision-making powers. In fact, I'd like to change the cost benefit system, even if it's smaller, but paperless. But the heads of office you've written here, like the Attorney General, the Chancellor of Justice, and so on, all these expenses are covered anyway. What's the logical explanation? Neither the Chancellor of Justice nor the Attorney General are big representatives, but if they are, they will receive all such costs by means of invoices, such as the cost of using the car or the cost of communication (including members of the Riigikogu) or, as far as I am concerned, the cost of lunch (which Riigikogu members do not dare to do).
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U98	Thanks! As regards the members of the Riigikogu, I agree with you. I think there could be such a trust system. The analogy is the same as for the representation expenses of ministers. This use of content depends very much on the individual. I think this is exactly the same for ministers. The other side is that these officials have taken a step forward today in terms of all communication and work volumes from their predecessors, who did this work perhaps ten years ago. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, I'm talking about them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U99	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U100	Thank you, Chairman. I thought I took my question down because two previous questioners asked my question. But then maybe I'll ask you a little bit more about it. You were talking about making it look the same. Was it not said in the committee that members of the Riigikogu could in this sense be made similar to other officials who have been given representation expenses? We are talking a little bit about other costs here, but aren't these essentially the same representation costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U101	Thanks! If we come more specifically to the rules of procedure of the members of the Riigikogu, we can certainly discuss this. I look forward to this consensus and courage in this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U102	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your report you noted that the indexation of the salaries of the members of the Riigikogu was, as if, mismanaged, it moved up and down and there was no logic. You indicated that the Riigikogu has expressed its will and wished to make this indexation work normally. However, you justified that the current Riigikogu should not introduce this amendment earlier than for the next composition, which goes against the logic you described earlier. According to this logic, it is as if the improvement in indexing, i.e. the will that the Riigikogu has wished for, is being carried out, and there is no direct reason to postpone it. Was this the way it was discussed? Personally, I get the impression that the hierarchy that will occur in the Riigikogu because of these internal coefficients, so that the remuneration of a simple member is literally down there, may in the long term be unfair to the majority of the members of the Riigikogu who do their work every day in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U104	Thanks for the question! We have agreed on this process here so that, if the change is positive, raises wages, it must be borne in mind that no formation discusses issues that increase its salary, as rational as it sounds. I forgot to describe one amendment, which is actually part of another amendment. This concerns the determination of the highest wage rate at all. The current law states that this must be dealt with during the third year's spring session of the Riigikogu. Now, taste is a matter of how to interpret it, either third or third. We are proposing that this restriction be lifted at all. So much progress we have made in our development hopefully again, that if there is this consensus and will to change this highest wage rate, it can be done at any time during the work of the composition, but still for the next Riigikogu. I dare to hope that in the elections to the Riigikogu in 2019, the competition will be greater than 1.0 people, despite the fact that the salary is what it is, and then those who win the voter's trust in this competition will receive an indexed salary. This indexation itself starts from 2018, but it does not just reach the members of the Riigikogu, although it has been taken into account in 2019.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U105	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U106	Good manager! Good waitress! Once upon a time, this suppression of the salaries of senior civil servants began from one small mistake. I'm coming up with indexing. When the Minister of Justice came up with this bill, the general prosecutor's salary index was 0,95 and the rest of the prosecutors had a correspondingly lower figure. One minute, when we realized that something was kind of wrong, we threw the rest of the prosecutors out of this law and put them in the law of the prosecutor's office, and we also changed the indexing. I still did not get a clear answer in the committee from where it came from. According to the current bill, the lower the position of prosecutor, the less he wins the salary, compared to the plan that the Minister of Justice came up with. Who's really behind this stuff anyway? I didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U107	Thanks! Both this first proposal, which came from the government as a draft, and the amendment have been prepared by the Ministry of Justice. I'm translating to those people who didn't participate in the debate on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that Peter Ernits is complaining about. If we take the current salary of the prosecutor at any level, assuming that this is, for example, EUR 3000, the initial draft would have raised this salary to EUR 3420. This amendment, which came from the Ministry of Justice during the procedure of the draft, created such a system of coefficients that, instead of EUR 3420, this salary is, for example, EUR 3390. Now there is a classic point of thinking, whether the glass is half empty, half full, or nothing at all: will the prosecutors get 400 euros or will they take 40 euros away? But all prosecutors are facing wage growth in 2018, not wage losses.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U108	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U109	Good waitress! Good manager! Of course, the pay goes up. Actually, it's none of my business to fight here for an increase in prosecutors' wages. But I don't care how one system is replaced by another with a light fingertip, and there's no justification. In fact, the lower the position of prosecutor, the less he will receive nominal pay compared to the first plan that Minister Reinsalu came up with.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U110	Yeah. I'm staying with me. Growth is in hundreds of euros compared to today's salary. The difference between the initial proposal and the current one before you is a few dozen euros. This is due to the fact that the coefficients are taken to an accuracy of 5% and have not been made any more subtle in this system. I gave you an example of the salary of a member of the Council for Development Monitoring, where we have reached a coefficient of 0.04, which sounds a little weird in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U111	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U112	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear waitress, Perhaps on behalf of the Commission, you will explain whether crime is higher in Ida-Viru County or what. I read that there is an opportunity to raise the salary of the prosecutor to be transferred there up to EUR 1 000, etc. Is the situation so bad or why is there so much more to pay?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U113	This trend is characteristic of the whole legal system. This also concerns, for example, the remuneration of police officers in the prefecture. The reason is very simple. Indeed, this situation may not differ from that which looks back on us in Tallinn, for example, but for some inexplicable or explainable reason, people are not prepared to go to Ida-Viru County for the first choice to do their work.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U114	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Marko Pomerants! I'm opening negotiations. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U115	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure it's nice that this indexation system was fixed, it was a failed system, and I put my hand on it too. However, among other things, this 20% system of representation costs has come in from some corner to change the salaries of these senior civil servants. We have repeatedly said in the Free Party that the system should be clear and understandable. When people get paid, they get paid and there shouldn't be any sideways. Whether it's a little higher, all kinds of representation expenses, expenses and all that other stuff could be gone, or it could be all compensated very clearly and clearly. Rather, it should have been done "on the contrary," either to abolish the system of cost benefits and representation costs completely or to make it simple and understandable. Therefore, because this is a matter of representation costs, let's say, coming in from around the corner, or from the Commission itself, the Free Party Group proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft 513. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U116	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U117	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm actually talking about the same subject Arthur Talvik was talking about, mostly this representation expenses thing. You see, in our changing world, the earlier meaning of words is forgotten, and we are introducing new words to celebrate new phenomena. During the past year, there has been a need to point out in several cases that the Constitution states that elections must be uniform in Estonia. This word has had historical meaning in politics. Estonia has had uniform elections since at least 1918 if we exclude Soviet time. Right now, no one remembers what was the problem that was once celebrated with the word 'one-size-fits-all'. That is why people's creative fantasy has begun to work, giving this word completely new, unprecedented and unheard of meanings. These representation expenses are more or less the same thing. In principle, representation expenses have been the kind of institution used when a person's work includes certain representation functions which require his or her representative appearance, special representation clothing. That's what the word is to cover the cost of that outfit. Somehow, there's an analogy here with the uniform and the uniform-like outfit that belongs to one profession or another. As a rule, we in Estonia have resolved these things in such a way that the uniforms, or also the tolars, like the judges or anyone else, are allowed to do in the respective tailors' workshops. Usually, the employer pays for it. Even I once had a very high-quality green uniform that I got because I was a forest watchman at work. The ranger had a uniform that wasn't really needed anywhere, but it was a very nice uniform. There you go. The thing about representation expenses is that we come here to work with the understanding that our salary is big enough to buy our own clothes for the job, for our own pay. This is generally the case in these professions today. There are very few occupations in Estonia where special clothing is needed to perform the representative function. This is most strikingly needed in the presidency, and indeed the President has representation expenses. Perhaps the Minister of Foreign Affairs needs them too, but I don't think the Defence Forces need a special parade uniform with a parade sword and other pretty things. The representation expenses have come into our law from the law of the Soviet Union. As far as I know, I haven't read it anywhere, but a fragment by piece I've tried to put together a picture, they came into more mass use after the October Revolution in red Russia than the workers and peasants and all the representatives needed to work in the authorities. And then, look, they needed their own outfit for this job. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U118	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U119	This was obviously absolutely necessary and justified. I have not heard that any special representation costs would have been in the Republic of Estonia before the Second World War, I do not know that. But after 1940, Soviet power brought us representation expenses, including representation expenses for members of the Supreme Council. As such, during the VII Riigikogu, this matter was passed on to members of the Riigikogu. So we, who came to this VII Riigikogu, should remember Mr Nestorg, also had some representation costs, although their substantive implementation was no longer necessary during the Soviet period and certainly was not needed during the VII Riigikogu. After 1992, the reduction in all representation costs started, and this money was gradually drawn down everywhere. At some point in time, I think it has something to do with the very same phenomenon that brought Res Publica to power in 2003 when various Soviet ages began to be revived on a massive scale and used in new functions. Here it was a function that, under the pretext of representation costs, an additional amount was added, but the conditions for its use did not exist and did not need to do so. Now we are talking about one such phenomenon, and once again we are trying to expand it. I do not know that any of the people to whom this bill provides for an increase in wages under the phony name of representation costs would somehow be able to use this money in a targeted way. Maybe we can come back to this and figure out who needs it. The argument that in 2009 or at any other time someone, such as ministers, will have representation expenses and should now extend this list, is, in my opinion, not serious. The statesmen should not think like this or express themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U120	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I support the proposal to suspend the reading of this draft and to reform it. He's in a lot of trouble. One is that the jacket is sewn to the button, but very little has been done with the jacket itself, and there is also, as Jüri Adams has already said, other stuff sewn on, various sheets of bed and other laundry that should not be included. Jüri used the word'representation expenses' to refer to the philological and historical background, but it also has economic significance, which is significantly different from it. I wouldn't mind that, I think that our group would also not, if those representation expenses, which are borne by members of the government, by the President and who still have, were to be added to the salary. They deserve a higher salary. Then we could forget about it. But as head of the institution, they actually get very well covered for their representation expenses. The performance of the representation function requires not only a uniform, but also a general representation in communication, even in my opinion, in the use of transport. However, I shall take the example of transport down, although it concerns the Riigikogu, those of whom we are talking about now have an official car. In fact, one way of communicating representatively is very often also work lunches and other things that should not cause a person to wonder too much. There could be an addition to the salary. The directors of the institutions are covered by these costs. In the case of members of the Riigikogu, I do not agree with this statement because the members of the Riigikogu do not have an institution that pays for transport and communication costs, we actually have economic costs. We don't have mostly so many, they're further on the passengers and in certain periods. As a result, a very large proportion of the benefits remain unused by very many. As far as I am concerned, members of the Riigikogu could also make this amount smaller and cancel the cheque economy, for example 20% without cheques would be close to actual economic costs. It means you can't eat for that money, but you can drive, keep in touch, and cover other tricks. In fact, no private accountant should interfere with the costs of the sovereign. This is actually our status, but we are trying to subjugate ourselves and forget it. Not to mention that there is no justification for the prosecutors, the Chancellors of Justice and other such people to have these costs added, as has now been done. It doesn't make any sense. They're covered. Let's raise the Chancellor of Justice's salary. I think we're already raising the Attorney General's salary. There's nothing to add to his salary. But it doesn't make any sense that these people get the 20% in cash, they're not representation in the sense of being a vigilante, if I can use that word. We have proposals that we will put to the vote. First of all, it has been sufficiently admitted in the cost maidens that eight years' salary freeze is too much and 12 years in fact too much. That is why we are proposing to increase this remuneration as well. We think Mikhail Kõlvart and citizen Aas, which he was, I think Taavi was, shouldn't be paid more than the president, but they are now. It's illogical, these people have different meanings in society. Judges could have a higher salary and members of the Riigikogu could also have a higher salary. I'm sensing some kind of cartel agreement after these cost-benefit discussions, that we keep the competition off the table, we're sitting on a smaller salary, but let's not let the competition get in the way. It's an exaggeration, it doesn't make sense. We should, however, maintain the dignity of this profession, especially as we are talking about the next membership, where one third of us are certainly not. What were those suggestions? We also have a proposal to change this scale. Here we do not have a common position in the group, but I would ask everyone to take their heart and stick to what has been said by several people in the costaars that the level of salary should be increased, the President's salary should be higher, the salaries of judges should be higher and, in essence, the level of pay should also rise for members of the Riigikogu, but also on the rest of this scale. We've been underdoging ourselves, and we could end this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U122	I don't see any more requests. There are nine amendments to draft law 513; we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the decision is to take full account of it. The second amendment is also from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the decision is to take full account of it. The third amendment is from the members of the Riigikogu, Arto Asa, Kalle Laanet and Lauri Luige, and the decision of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U123	Please vote on this proposal, which will increase competition in politics and other agencies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U124	That is what we do according to common practice. The chair is waiting to be asked to vote on the amendment. Sometimes the comments may be as long as my explanation now, and this hinders progress. In any case, we shall begin preparing the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the third amendment tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, Arto Aas, Kalle Laanet and Lauri Luik, the decision of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 29 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 40 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, Arto Aas, Kalle Laanet and Lauri Luik, the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U125	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U126	I shall put to the vote Amendment 4 tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, Arto Aas, Kalle Laanet and Lauri Luik. The decision of the Governing Commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 21 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 48 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Eiki Nestor, Priit Sibul, Artur Talvik, Martin Helme, Kersti Sarapuu, Enn Eesmaa, Jürgen Ligi, Hanno Pevkur and Kalvi Kõrja. The decision of the commission is to take full account. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take full account. The seventh amendment has been tabled by... Arthur Talvik, do you want a vote? You got ahead of yourself. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U127	We would like to put this to the vote, the seventh amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U128	You have every right to do so. Jürgen Ligi, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U129	I ask for seven minutes of intermission before the vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U130	Seven minutes break. We'll resume the hearing in seven minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U131	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 7 tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the decision of the commission is to take it fully into account. Please take a stand and vote, in complete silence, please! 41 delegates voted in favour of the decision of the commission, 33 against and no abstentions. The decision of the Governing Commission will stand. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, Arto Aas, Kalle Laanet and Lauri Luik, the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U132	I would like to ask for this good proposal to be voted on and still to be in favour.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U133	That's what we do. I mean, let's vote. Jürgen Ligi, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U134	Let's cut this horrible vote. It was a noise, I was given bad advice. Individually, this change no longer makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U135	Does this mean that you withdraw your original proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U136	Yeah, if I can have some more, I will.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U137	The motion has been withdrawn. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U138	Yeah, it was an empty proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U139	We have examined nine amendments together. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 513. However, the Free Party has proposed that the reading be interrupted, to which Jürgen Ligi responded in the same way in the oral way, speaking on behalf of the Reform Party Group. As this is a proposal on behalf of a group, it will lead to a vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to put to the vote the second reading of the draft proposal fixed by the Free Party in writing. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal of the Free Party was welcomed, but not given final support. There were 31 delegates for it, 44 against it. Therefore, the proposal of the lead committee to conclude the second reading of draft 518 is valid. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U140	Sixth item: Amendment of the Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related to other... How? I'm sorry! The chairman of the meeting hastens forward in time like Mati Talvik. We are going ahead and we are on the move on the fifth item: Second reading of draft Act 518 amending the Act on the Person Repressed by Occupational regimes initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act on Social Welfare. Call chair, Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U141	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! I would like to introduce to you what happened between the first and second readings in the Committee on Social Affairs just as a reminder, since it has been a long time in the meantime. This draft foresees an increase in the support of the repressed one from EUR 192 to EUR 230. Social support is also provided for more people who were forced into a nuclear disaster area to deal with the consequences of the disaster. I will also say right away that the draft law was at first reading with a second title than today. At first reading, the title of the draft initiated by the Government of the Republic was: 'The Act amending the Act on the person repressed by the Occupational regimes and amending the Act on Social Welfare'. Now one word of'modification' has been removed from the title, and the title is, as you can see, 'Law amending the Act on the person repressed by the Occupational regimes and the Act on Social Welfare'. The Government of the Republic initiated this draft on 27 September. The first reading was completed on 11 October. An amendment was tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union within the deadline. The Social Affairs Committee also sent the draft for opinion to the Estonian Chernobyl Society, the Pärnumaa Chernobyl Association Gamma and the Estonian Mermento Association, where no comments and suggestions on the draft were received. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 9 and 13 and 20 November. Everyone to whom we had sent a letter for an opinion had been invited to the meeting of the Commission on 9 November. Aare Uind, Member of the Board of the Gamma of the Chernobyl Association of Pärnumaa, Leo Õispuu, Chairman of the Estonian Mermento Association, Tiiu Teesalo, Vice-Chairman of the Estonian Mermento Association, Lidia Soontak, Head Specialist of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Susanna Jurs, Legal Adviser. We also invited the Director General of the Data Protection Inspectorate, Viljar Peebu, and the advisers of the Public Service of the Ministry of Justice, Merike Keev and Mirjam Rannula, to the meeting of the Commission, which took place on 13 November. Now to the amendments. The first amendment was to delete the word 'change', which I have already mentioned to you. The second amendment, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance, proposed to supplement the law with a new paragraph and to provide a legal basis for bringing out persons repressed by occupation regimes and also for giving them recognition. Since the processing of data on persons repressed by occupation regimes is a processing of personal data subject to the Personal Data Protection Act, it is necessary to introduce an amendment to the Act of Repressed Persons, in other words a completely new paragraph concerning sensitive personal data and their processing. As we requested confirmation from the Data Protection Inspectorate that this is necessary, as I said, we asked for representatives from both the Data Protection Inspectorate and the Ministry of Justice to attend the meeting on 13 November. And it was indeed clear that this was a necessary change, and the Commission supported this amendment. Amendment 4, proposed by the Committee on Social Affairs, is intended to complement the draft. The Commission presented it on a proposal from the Ministry of Social Affairs, as otherwise there would have been a situation where persons who had left Estonia for example to study or join the army would have been excluded from the list of beneficiaries of the relevant social assistance, but were directed to remedy the consequences of the nuclear disaster. This was not the purpose of the draft proposal and, after this proposal for improvement, these people will also have the right to apply for such support. The Committee on Social Affairs also took procedural decisions at its meeting on 13 November. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 22 November and that the second reading be closed, that the draft be sent to third reading when the second one is closed by 6 December and that the final vote be taken. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U142	Any questions for the Social Affairs Committee president? No, it's not. Thank you very much. As this is a second reading, I can open negotiations for all members of the Riigikogu. That's not what you want. In that case, we will examine four amendments together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment has been tabled by the Group of Isamaa and Res Publica, and the decision of the commission is to take this into account in substance. The third amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 518. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U143	Sixth item: Second reading of draft law 517 on the amendment of the Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Monika Haukanõmme, Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U144	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is a great honour for me to introduce to you the procedure between the first and second reading of the Amendment to the Family Benefits Act and the related amendment to the other laws of the Act 517. Since the first reading in this Chamber took place already on 11 October and it has been some time since then, I will introduce you very briefly to the seven amendments proposed in the draft before I go to what happened in the Commission. As I said, the draft aims to make seven changes to the family benefit system. The first is that it is possible for the father to stay on paternity leave for 30 days instead of the current ten working days and to exercise his right at the same time as the mother or separately. The second amendment is that the right to supplementary parental benefit for a father will no longer depend on his previous employment relationship or the contractual form of work. The third amendment: Parental benefit can be suspended and continued at the person's request until the child is three years old. Fourth amendment: At the time of payment of parental benefit, it is possible to earn up to half of the maximum amount of parental benefit in 2018 after the adoption of the law, i.e. approximately EUR 1544 per month, without any reduction in the amount of the benefit. At present, this amount is EUR 470. The beneficiary of parental benefit is guaranteed a full benefit instead of the benefit. The fifth proposal concerns the period on which the parental benefit is calculated and is dependent on the date of birth of the child. Currently, the basis is the previous calendar year, but today, according to the bill on your desk, the 12 months preceding the birth of the child. Sixthly, the parental allowance for triplets and multiples is set at EUR 1000 per month until the children reach 18 months of age. The latter amendment concerns the child care allowance, which will be terminated and the corresponding funds will be further integrated into the parental benefit scheme. It was a quick glimpse of what this bill contained. The Social Affairs Committee dealt with this draft at five sessions. The Group of the Reform Party and the members of the Riigikogu, Maris Lauri and Monika Haukamm, tabled their amendments by the deadline. Marko Udras of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Peep Peterson of the Estonian Trade Union Confederation were also invited to the first meeting of the committee where we discussed this. Both confirmed that they supported the aim of the law to make the parental benefit system more flexible. At the same time, Marko Udras, Head of the Policy and Legal Department of the Chamber of Commerce, pointed out that the so-called notice period is currently too short if the parent wants parental leave. It is 14 days based on the Employment Contracts Act and the General Order. It was proposed that it be longer. The members of the Social Affairs Committee also drew attention to this problem with the same concern. The Chamber of Commerce proposed in writing as well as in the Commission that the notice period be extended, ideally 30 days. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained to us that they have already agreed with representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and other interest groups that this issue will be discussed further and will certainly be on the table, because this is an important problem. But this will be done in the next stage with the next draft, which is expected to reach our tables in the spring of next year, according to the official about March. Peep Peterson agreed to the bill, but he also pointed out different topics. He raised the question, for example, that a provision extending the period of paternity leave could enter into force earlier, not only in 2020, because that is the flexibility we really need. But it turns out that sometimes things are easier than they seem to us. The reason why such a substantial change cannot enter into force earlier concerns IT developments. Peep Peterson also raised the issue of one third of the time of the parental leave to be reimbursed to fathers. Paternity leave could therefore be longer than a month. He also asked a question about babysitting. This is not related to a specific draft, but it raised the possibility that a mansion would be guaranteed from the age of one. Of course, it agrees with all the amendments referred to, as they make the system more flexible. In order for us to have more childcare facilities, so that we also have a more flexible early childhood education and care system and more in line with parents' wishes, the Ministry of Social Affairs promised to continue working with the Ministry of Education and Research. At our next meeting, we also reached amendments. Let me briefly introduce them here. The first amendment introduced by Maris Lauri has been made by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The group proposes not to lose the planned child care allowance. The reason was that the state's support for families who raise children up to 2 years of age will then disappear. What's the point? Since the 1990s, we have had a child care allowance and it has been treated as a substitute income. Such replacement income is no longer considered reasonable by the emergence of a parental benefit system. It is believed that this is a little bit out of the way and that regulation could be integrated into the general system. What kind of money are we talking about? The child care allowance until the child reaches the age of 3 is 38.36 euros per month and if there are children up to 8 years of age in the family, the allowance for other children is 19.18 euros. If there are three or more children up to 8 years of age in the family, the child care allowance is also EUR 19 and EUR 18 per month. The second and third amendments are made by Maris Lauri and are that we could change the support for so-called triplets and families with more children to support multiples instead. The draft that we are currently facing provides for a grant for triplets and multiples of more than EUR 1000 per month until children reach the age of 18 months. But the problem is how to cope when twins are born into the family. It's just as serious. Maris Lauri's proposal is that we could have multiple support starting from the birth of twins and including triplets and multiples, and it could be 300 euros a month for everyone. These proposals were also not supported by a majority of the Members of the Commission. Why? As usual, things are about money. Pirjo Turk, an official of the Ministry of Social Affairs, explained to us that if triplets and multiples are born twice a year on average in Estonia, for example, the twins were born 224 pairs last year and the number of twins increased from year to year due to better possibilities for artificial insemination. One amendment was tabled by me, Mrs Haukanõmme, and it concerns how long the employer must be informed in advance of the interruption of parental leave. If it is now 14 days, my proposal is 30 calendar days. In principle, no one argued against it because it is also understood that it is very difficult for an employer to find a replacement at such short notice. At the same time, it is also very good for a replacement worker if the period is longer. However, we bumped into this amendment so that it should not be regulated in this law but in the Employment Contracts Act and the Public Service Act. This, however, requires additional time to make this change to these laws. So we look forward to the next package. Next, we discussed the amendment of the Estonian Reform Party's Group on the accounting period for parental benefit. Under the current regulation, parental benefit is calculated on the basis of last year's income, which creates opportunities for fraud. The proposal of the Reform Party Group is to take the 21 calendar months preceding the accounting period. We had, of course, a very long debate on which option, either 12 months or 21 months, would reduce the possibilities for fraud. Well, I guess there's plenty left in both cases. Sometimes people are very resourceful. There are also well - known websites on the Internet that teach us how to do all of this. So we cannot, of course, minimize such fraud. However, for the sake of individual fraud, the law cannot be made to punish everyone. Fraud occurs sooner or later, certain investigative bodies are already involved in identifying them and recovering the aid received unfairly from the State. One amendment I tabled concerned the minimum length of paternity leave to be taken at once. The current bill says that paternity leave, which is 30 calendar days, can also be taken out for days. It would certainly be necessary to specify more precisely whether this period is at least five days or more long. Indeed, in agreement with the employer, this leave can be taken for days. Why, though, would a minimum number of days need to be recorded in the law? This is due to the fact that if we have 30 calendar days for this, but Dad takes out, for example, 6 × 5 days of leave, then the actual period of leave is knowingly extended. Again, the aim is to reduce abuses. In addition, I proposed that the date of entry into force of the law be brought forward so that the extension of paternity leave does not enter into force on 30 June 2020, but already in 2019. This proposal was also not supported. This is directly related to IT developments, as has been the case repeatedly in this Chamber, with the problems of developing the SKIAIS 2. However, all other positive changes will enter into force as early as 1 March 2018. On 13 November, when the Committee on Social Affairs was the third meeting and we discussed this draft for the third time, the votes took place and procedural decisions were also taken. These decisions were as follows: Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the agenda of the plenary session on 22 November and that the second reading be closed, that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is completed, by 6 December, and then put to the final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus. That would then be very briefly discussed at our meetings. I look forward to your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U145	The first question shall be put to the rapporteur by Mr Pikhof. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Did you also have a debate in the Commission to make the use of parental leave even more flexible? In Sweden, for example, there is a mother with a child for half a week, a father for half a week. Were such opportunities discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U147	Thank you for your question. In particular, we did not have such a proposal on the table. But as I said, the Ministry of Social Affairs will come up next spring with an additional package. The aim is to make the parental benefit system even more flexible, especially in terms of paternity leave. There's probably gonna be more changes, but I can't tell you that right now. But it is certainly the intention to make regulation more flexible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U148	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U149	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Of course, it is a pity to hear that the problem of multiples cannot be resolved better, because it would be a heavenly gift if we had more multiples born and the population really started to grow after 35 years. But the question is whether all of the opposition's proposals are really so poor that none of them could be taken into account, except for one of your proposals, which in essence could be taken into account. Otherwise, only proposals from the Commission or the Ministry went through.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U150	Thank you for your question. It's a democracy, isn't it? All the proposals were voted on in the Commission. Unfortunately, the opposition is outnumbered and certain decisions are going through, whether we like them or not. I believe that the issue is not always that the opposition's proposals are, in the coalition's view, bad. Decisions that are made often relate to money or to a specific issue being resolved by another bill or will eventually come to it in the future. I certainly do not believe that they will be voted down because they are bad proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U151	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U152	Thank you. You said in one sentence that fraud must be combated, and in the second sentence that fraud is still and cannot quite defeat them, but these cheaters will eventually get caught. When you presented our proposal, you said it last, but we are interested in why this proposal for a two-year reference period is poor. Why was it voted down? Clearly, fraud can go either way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U153	This point was a very long discussion in the Commission; these periods were discussed. For example, if a parent has started studying within 21 months or doesn't work at any time, if we divide that period by the number of months, would a person win if the period was 12 months, or would he lose? The position of an official of the Ministry of Social Affairs was that it doesn't really matter how long this period is. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U154	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U155	Thank you. I have more comment, good Monika! In fact, the first proposal made by the Reform Party concerned the abolition of child care fees, which would result in the loss of public support for families up to 8 years of age and not up to 2 years of age. That was the reason. It's just a note.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U156	Thank you. I guess it was a glitch I didn't notice. Thank you for that comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U157	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U158	Thank you. Good waitress! Did you in the Commission also discuss this possibility of extending the parental benefit period until the child's schooling? The Social Democrats have once proposed to the Riigikogu to extend this period. Of course, we are not thinking of increasing the number of months, but there might be a way to divide these months over a longer period. Maybe the kid could use a little more attention later, and it'd be good to leave a few or three months later. Was that what we were talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U159	Thank you for your question. We did not discuss this proposal within the framework of this draft. And there was no proposal to discuss this idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U160	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U161	Thank you. Are you afraid you're going to discuss this? Once, the parental benefit was applied to the idea that it would preserve the family's income at the most difficult time when the child primarily needs a mother, alright, as an alternative to the father, but in principle, in the child's fragile age, where the parent's absence is very justified. Is life really going in the direction that this compensation is simply taken as a package of money that can be recovered from the state at any given moment? And at the same time, they get to work next to a little kid. Do we have the hope that if the state has put in place some kind of policy, it will stick to it? Do we stick to the need for this support when a child is at the tenderest age? At other times, something else is needed. What's the common sense? Is it all going to the forest, or is there hope that the basic idea will prevail?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U162	Thank you, Mr Jürgen Ligi! We did not discuss this issue. And whether it comes to the debate or not, it still depends on the social democrats whether they are proposing it. If they do, of course the Commission will discuss it. The decision to be taken by the Commission will be clear once this proposal has been made. This is not on the table right now. This was not in the debate so far, and since the deadline for amendments is over, we are not discussing this issue with regard to this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U163	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The current law only partially serves its purpose by maintaining, with the support of the State, an early income for a parent whose income is reduced as a result of the child's upbringing. But the law does not fulfil its objective of reconciling work and family life, because the parental benefit system is unreasonablely rigid. When a child is born into the family, making work and family life together becomes the main concern of the woman. As a convenient example, only 8% of parents are entitled to parental benefit, and in the language of speech the benefit is called maternity pay. Why do we have these things? Is it because of rocked gender roles, time and age assessments, attitudes or even fathers' lukewarm interest in their own children? At the same time, the employment rate of Estonian women has been very high for decades compared to that of many European countries. The average level of education of our women also provides an eye for the education of a large part of the rest of European women and also of Estonian men. However, the pay gap between men and women, as we know, is shy and one of the main factors that narrows women's chances on the labour market is children. The employer knows that a woman, no matter how well educated and as good a specialist as she is, can have a child and thus fail her. Our parental benefit system is like forcing a young mother home with a child for a year and a half; in the case of two children born in a row, the mother stays at home for as many as three years, and this gives her a break in her professional career. Good fellows! For many years, the Social Democrats have been talking about the need to make the parental benefit system more flexible. As early as 2010, we submitted a draft reformating the parental benefit scheme to the Riigikogu proceedings, but then it was stuck. But one has to do it anyway. The government coalition has come up with changes in how to make the rigid regime more flexible and encourage fathers' contribution to raising a child. In the Nordic countries, for example, it is men themselves who are increasingly demanding the opportunity to work flexibly and part-time in order to balance work and family life. Family policies in these countries, including paid parental leave for only fathers, have allowed them to experience the wonderful emotions of caring for their children. Norway opened up at the end when it started to give parental leave for a month in 1993 only to fathers. More radical than others is Iceland, where there is a system that three months of paid parental leave is reserved for the mother, three months for the father and the remaining three months can be decided by the family itself. Here in Estonia, too, we have only told our father about three months. I think we'll be there soon enough. Studies show that men living with children, caring and caring fathers are less at risk, less often suffering from depression, are in a better tone at all. The results of a survey of Swedish fathers who took parental leave show that men who were at home with a month or two children reduced the risk of dying at that time by a quarter, as children create a solid structure for life and give it meaning. Estonian family policy has so far not emphasised paternity and has not taken gender equality into account. Active treatment of men with children also affects women and relationships. By sharing the responsibilities of caring for a child with a man, a woman can shorten her career and contribute more to working life. This would allow better use to be made of the knowledge and skills of our highly educated women, and if women move forward on the ladder, the gender pay gap will also narrow. The development of children of any age has a positive effect when a father takes time for them. However, as far as relationships are concerned, Swedish researchers have pointed out that in families where fathers took parental leave, the likelihood of a couple getting divorced was reduced by 30%. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U165	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U166	More other and third children were also born into such families. According to studies, 78% of Estonians consider it natural that their father is home with their children. What, then, prevents the father from staying at home with the child? On the one hand, the rigid use of parental benefit, on the other hand, time and time patterns, gender roles, according to which a man is a servant of bread, and a woman, a child in a skirt, a mover of a leme cub. I believe that the dispersal of the parental benefit period and the reservation of some parental benefit only to fathers will have a positive impact on the well-being of men, women and children, as well as on the permanence and birth rate of the family, and ultimately on the sustainability of the whole population and the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U167	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U168	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about a few aspects of this draft and perhaps also the amendments made by the Reform Party, which I personally did. There was a question of why the opposition party's proposals were not supported. I, too, cannot say that if there are, let's say, two similar proposals, why is the opposition voting down on it? But that's what happened. I hope that in the future, at least this proposal will be accompanied by a statement that it has been taken into account in substance. But that's it. I'd start with the parental benefit period. At present, parental benefit is calculated on the basis of the income of the previous calendar year and has led to a temptation for quite large fraud. Wages are artificially pushed up, in fact, the income of a pregnant woman may not increase at the same time. These frauds are significant and can also be observed. How do we solve this? The first option could be that we base the month before 12 births. The question still arises: if there is a desire to commit fraud, this fraud will be implemented. That is why the Ministry came up with a proposal to take account of the time of 21 months before the birth of the child, less nine months before the birth of the child. Since it is not known then that the child will be born, there is no possibility of fraud. We proposed that the counting period be 21 months, so that the nine months would also be included. The reason was that it could be very easy for a mother to find a job in that 21-month period, including the nine months of pregnancy before, at some point, but a little before she was pregnant, she might be able to earn a salary, maybe a very decent salary. The current solution essentially means a minimum benefit for him. If the calculation is based on 21 months, a longer period, then the possibility of earning a salary also guarantees him a slightly higher income. In fact, such a longer period would make fraud meaningless. There would be no point in raising the salary eight or seven months before the child's birth, as the long accounting period simply smooths out the end result. The effect of fraud would be to raise a woman's salary very hard. If it were done, it would stand out for every controller. Fraud is, as we know, forbidden and in such cases these benefits can be recovered. Maybe they don't want to talk about it, but the solution proposed by the Ministry that the calculation is not based on the income of the nine months before delivery actually allows the state to save money. And not a little. I believe that the solution we have proposed is much better, because it is fairer and more motivating and also reduces the fraud that we are concerned about. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U169	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U170	Now, from my second amendment. It is proposed to introduce a grant for triple births and more multiple births. Let us be honest, this proposal is emotionally linked to the fact that we were born four this year. This is a very nice event, but for me, there is a practical question of whether we have to deal with things when an emotional connection arises. I don't think that should be the case. Every child is great, every child is great, whether it's two, three or four at a time. Yes, four at a time must be very difficult, and it is also very difficult in three. Really, I don't know from personal experience, but it's probably hard to deal with twins, just like any of them. My amendment was based on the desire to discuss how to ease these situations when multiples are born. I was disturbed by the Minister's response to our questions at first reading in this Chamber and in the Commission. He specifically said that there are two hands, but we don't have a third, and that's why we're giving more support from the triplets. In fact, with two children, twins, it's very complicated and difficult. We have families where a mother raises twins alone, and not of free will. Don't they have the right to more support? At the same time, I believe that every community or, officially, the municipality should always notice when problems arise. Free will should help families who have multiple births and where material difficulties are likely to arise. Sometimes parents just need someone to help them sometimes because they can't. You don't always have to come to the aid of the state. I'd like us to notice these situations side by side. I am still convinced that it would be even better not to give this money, which is, like, meant to hire a family assistant. Yes, it is probably possible to find a guardian for EUR 1000, but I would remind you that taxes will also be paid for this EUR 1000, which means that the assistant's salary will be EUR 500.600. I want to know if it's possible to hire a human being. I suspect not. But maybe sometimes twin mothers need such a helper. Why aren't they allowed to do that? That is why we want to discuss how we support our people when they have multiples that undoubtedly pose major problems. Unfortunately, as regards paternity leave, I cannot tell you that we also have families where there are no fathers. It is not because some fathers simply do not participate in raising children. So if we only offer additional opportunities to families with fathers, it is, in a sense, unequal treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U171	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. 18 amendments have been tabled on draft 517, and we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. The second amendment has been tabled by Maris Lauri, member of the Riigikogu, and the decision of the commission is to disregard it. The third amendment has been tabled by Maris Lauri, member of the Riigikogu, and the decision of the commission is to disregard it. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, the decision of the commission is to take this into account in substance. The sixth and seventh amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take them fully into account. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U172	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U173	Please! Dear Riigikogu, as chairman of the meeting, I must say that Remo Holsmer, a neighbour of the MP Heidy Purga, has changed his appearance beyond recognition and has never looked so good. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I would add, however, that I do not take the vote into account. I shall put to the vote the eighth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. It is the decision of the Governing Commission to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. 26 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The ninth amendment has been tabled by Monika Haukamm, member of the Riigikogu. Pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, this amendment is not to be voted on. The 10th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, the decision of the commission: take full account. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, decision of the commission: disregard. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, the decision of the commission: take full account. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, decision of the commission: take full account. Amendment 14 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, decision of the commission: disregard. The 15th amendment was tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, the decision of the commission: take full account. The 16th amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, the decision of the commission: take full account. The 17th amendment was tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, decision of the commission: disregard. The 18th amendment was tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, the decision of the commission: take full account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 517. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U174	The seventh item on the agenda. Second reading of the draft law amending the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 512. Mr Helmen Küti, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U175	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! Before you, the Government of the Republic has initiated the amendment of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act and the related amendment of other laws Act 512. Since the first reading took place on 11 October, I would remind you that the purpose of the draft is to transfer part of the services financed from the state budget to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund as part of the expansion of the income base of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. This would reduce the fragmentation of funding and increase the efficiency of the healthcare system. The draft provides for the gradual expansion of the income base of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and the transfer of expenditure from the state budget to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. On 23 April, the government approved the expansion of the income base of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund in the framework of the negotiations on the state budget strategy 2018 to 2021 and will contribute 7% of it to the budget in 2018, 10% in 2019, 11% in 2020, 12% in 2021 and 13% in 2022 for non-working old-age pensioners. Now I'm going to give you an overview of what happened between the first reading and the second reading. For starters, I ask you to make an amendment to the explanatory statement on your desk. There is a fingertip, I am very sorry from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. In particular, the amendments tabled were not four but five. That's the mistake. You have four amendments in your explanatory memorandum. In the tables, however, all these five are nicely seen. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 25 September. The first reading took place on 11 October and five proposals were tabled within the deadline for amendments. The Committee on Social Affairs has dealt with this draft very much, it was on the agenda of five sittings. True, on 16 November, where there was also a plan to discuss this issue, there was no need, because on 13 November we voted through the amendments. There was therefore substantial work on this draft at four meetings. By 26 November, the first meeting of the Social Committee after the first reading, we also invited representatives of interest groups. Eero Merilind, member of the board of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors, Pille Banhard, members of the Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, Andres Kork and Katrin Rehemaa, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Association of Hospitals Urmas Sule, Deputy Chancellor of Health of the Ministry of Social Affairs Maris Jesse, advisers of the Health System Development Department Kaija Kasekamp and Kristel Siiman, Head of the Estonian Employers' Confederation Toomas Tamsar and Chairman of the Estonian Trade Union Confederation Peep Peterson. The various opinions that have been said are also very well set out in the explanatory memorandum, but I will mark some here. The Estonian Employers' Confederation considers that a major and fundamental change to the health care financing system with the draft requires wider involvement and reflection. Nor does the Central Union consider that health services organisations are involved. Substantial changes have reached the budget without the development plan or the social partners being involved. A representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs said that the financing of health care in Estonia has been thoroughly analysed since 2005. Both domestic and international studies show that the dependence of the income base of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund on social tax alone is not sustainable, especially given our ageing population. Additional contributions for pensioners have been repeatedly recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO) to Estonia since 2005. In addition, the Ministry of Social Affairs has already explained that the Government of the Republic decided to draft this draft without any intention of developing it, as different alternatives have been considered over the years and the draft has been presented to many health-related parties who have also submitted their proposals during the procedure. The purpose of this bill is not to change the principles of health insurance in so far as additional health insurance is granted to monks and nuns belonging to a monastery established in the register of religious associations. The Estonian Medical Association proposed that the funding of ambulances and HIV/AIDS medicines be left in the state budget, as these are strategic cost items for public health and internal security of the state. This requires appropriate amendments to § 9 of the draft "amendment of the Health Services Organisation Act'. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained that this draft is a complete package and that this means that there is a link between the application of the automatic formula for extending the income base of the Health Insurance Fund and the change in the financing of services transferred from the state budget to the Health Insurance Fund. Peep Peterson stressed that, in fact, it is essential to bring more money to health care, it is long awaited and long queues are not acceptable to anyone. The amendments were presented at our meeting on 7 November. Maris Lauri introduced the Reform Party's, while the Ministry of Social Affairs introduced those which they had submitted further. I will now introduce the amendments to you. Amendment 1, proposed by the Committee on Social Affairs: add one of the provisions of the draft so that, like the ambulance, the methodology for calculating the remuneration for the medical remote consultation service is established and the price of this service is set by regulation of the Minister responsible for the field, on the proposal of the Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. This would only apply in 2019. It is therefore time to develop a methodology and to make new price calculations in the first half of 2018. Amendment No 2 was made by the Estonian Reform Party Group: amend the law so that the cost of the Health Insurance Fund's budget is divided into health insurance costs, the provision of the state budget for the health care costs to be financed and the operating costs of the Health Insurance Fund. It is clarified that the proposed amendment aims to separate the costs financed from the various sources of revenue. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs did not support this proposal. He explained that the cost of the health insurance fund's budget was divided into health care costs and the cost of the health insurance fund's operating costs. Now the third amendment made by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party: the reserve capital of the Health Insurance Fund must continue to remain in the health insurance system in order to reduce the risks arising from macroeconomic changes. It is not right to extend it to meet other obligations of the sickness fund, which are financed from other resources of the state budget. The amendment relates to the objective of keeping separate funds from health insurance contributions and national budget allocations in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs did not support this. Amendment 4 was tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group. Its content is that the health insurance fund's risk reserve must remain in place to reduce the risks arising from the obligations assumed by the health insurance system. It is not right to extend it to meet other obligations of the sickness fund, which are financed from other resources of the state budget. The amendment relates, in particular, to the objective of preventing the funds received in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund from separate health insurance contributions and from the national budget allocations. Reserves would only be taken into account at first. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs did not support the amendment. Amendment 5 was tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs. It establishes a mandate standard to establish the methodology for calculating the remuneration for the remote medical consultation service and the price of that service. Amendment 6 was also tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs. This concerns in particular the tasks of transplantation establishments. According to the proposal, the tasks of a national transplant agency are directly divided by the content of the law between the transplantation centre and the transplant institution and one of the points of the law on the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs are amended. The Health Insurance Fund can directly finance the tasks assigned to the transplant centre by law on the basis of the list of health services provided by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. This transplant issue has been up for a long time in the Commission. Fortunately, a compromise has now been found and an agreement has been reached with the authorities involved in transplantation. Amendment 7 by the Estonian Reform Party Group also concerned Amendment 2. In fact, it is very much related to this proposal. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs did not support this proposal. Proposal No 2 is to keep separate funds from health insurance contributions and public funds in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund and an explanation of this is given in Amendment 2. Amendment 8 was tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs. This concerns the amendment of the Health Insurance Act and the related amendment of other laws, the same principle being followed by the next draft on the agenda 514. Paragraph 8 (11) of the draft law 512 is deleted. This is reflected in draft 514. Amendment 9, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, clarifies the mandate rule. The basis for payment of the provision is set out in § 51 (3) of the Health Services Organisation Act and does not require specific regulation in the Regulation. Amendment 10 was tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group. The aim is, according to the author, to clearly separate health care services financed from public budget allocations from health insurance benefits in order to avoid the financing of services arising from public obligations, such as ambulances, infertility treatment, transplantation centres, AIDS/HIV prevention and the work of consulates, from insurance premiums. Health insurance benefits may also be financed from the national budget allocation. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs did not support this amendment. He pointed out that the prevention of HIV and AIDS is already a health care service provided under the Health Insurance Act, both in hospitals and in family centres. Amendment 11, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, concerns the provision for the creation of an antidote reserve. In the course of the linguistic correction, § 572 (2) deleted the sentence 'which empowers the State to carry out its administrative task under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Act'. Amendment 12, made by the Social Affairs Committee, concerns § 667 (2) of the Health Services Organisation Act. During the negotiations with the Health Board, the Tax and Customs Board and the State Support Services Centre, it has become apparent that it is not technically possible for the Health Board to organise the replacement of family doctors in the coming years, but at the same time they are paid by the Health Insurance Fund. This amendment, as I said, is tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs. Amendment 13 seeks to amend the provisions of the law on the entry into force of the proposal to set the cost of the remote medical consultation service from 2019 onwards. The commission took the procedural decisions set out in the minutes of the meeting of 13 November. Then there was the vote on all these amendments. The procedural decisions were as follows: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 22 November and that the second reading be closed; to send the draft to third reading when the second reading is closed by 6 December; and then to hold the final vote on the draft. All these decisions were consensual. Furthermore, the Committee on Social Affairs discussed at its meeting on 20 November that, for technical reasons, amendments 5 and 13 need to be re-elected. There was also full consensus on these points. I gave you a brief overview of what happened in the Commission. For a longer overview, you can read all about the protocols. I'm waiting for questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U176	And there are. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U177	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable waitress! You mentioned several times in your review that the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs opposed the proposal on how to keep the money of the health-insured separately. This suggests that they should have a very clear scheme of how to avoid this risk and prevent money that, as the future grows, should go to a better service for the health insurance, including specialist medical care, for example, through the development of an ambulance or other service. As long as it was in the state budget, a certain amount of nominal increase was guaranteed in line with the increase in the budget. How, then, will it be avoided in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U178	Thank you very much. Indeed, this bill is presented in such a way that the money is jointly in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. This will ensure that, for example, the ambulance can react quickly if necessary, etc. The commitments aren't going anywhere. As regards the expansion of the income base, as I said, the percentages that are added are necessary simply to ensure that the funding of the sickness fund is sustainable. The draft had been tabled in such a way that the money was together, and therefore the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs was opposed to these amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U179	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U180	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I am asking about the proposal of the Estonian Medical Association. If the Estonian Medical Association makes a substantive proposal, it will probably be very well considered and reasonable for the medical team. How much did the Commission discuss the content and feasibility of this proposal, namely the aim of the proposal by the Estonian Medical Association?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U181	Thank you. These categories were involved at the meeting of the Commission on 26 October, where the representative of the Estonian Medical Association presented several proposals concerning emergency medical care and the financing of HIV and AIDS medicines. He proposed to amend § 9 'amendment of the Health Services Organisation Act'. A lot of questions were asked. It was also recognised that the financing of HIV and AIDS medicines has so far taken place from the state budget, as they must be available to everyone and, at the same time, whether the carriers or AIDS sufferers are insured or not. Their treatment should be guaranteed. And there will be a gradual transition, not all changes will take place next year. Consolidation of health expenditure will take place in 2018. For example, the costs associated with infertility treatment, tissue transplantation and long-distance medical consultation of seafarers, dental care and anaesthesia for persons with deep disabilities, dental care for adults, support for HIV consilium work and additional medical benefits, ambulance and replacement fees for family doctors will be passed. In 2019, many more costs will be passed, and in 2020 they will be phased out. Many questions were submitted to the Estonian Medical Association, but I must also note that the Association of Doctors commended the fact that additional resources have finally been allocated to medicine. Only tax money, or 13% of what is paid on the workers, will the Estonian state be unable to provide proper health care.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U182	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U183	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Since the Commission decided to oppose the Ministry and still keep the money in different parts of the bag, I ask: what were the reasons for the Commission's rejection?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U184	Thank you. Indeed, if you wish, I can report the results of the vote. Amendment 1, which I presented to you, was decided to take full account of and was a consensual decision. Everyone voted in favour. Amendment 2, made by the Estonian Reform Party Group: take full account. (meeting of 5), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the As you can see, there is a democratic vote in the Commission, decisions are made by the number of votes. Amendment 3, tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group: for 5, against 4. Amendment 4, tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group: take full account, in favour of 5, against 4. Amendment 5: Take full account. There was no need to vote on this because no one called for a vote. Amendment 6, once again it was a consensual decision, no one asked for a vote. Amendment 7, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party: in favour 5, against 5, therefore went into full consideration. Amendment 8, from the Committee on Social Affairs: a consensual decision to take full account. Amendment 9, from the Committee on Social Affairs: a consensual decision to take full account of. Amendment 10 from the Estonian Reform Party Group: for 5, against 4. Amendment 11: consensus. Amendment 12: Consensual decision to take full account of, and this also applies to proposal 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U185	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U186	Thank you. Good waitress! I am already listening to the fact that I do not know for many times that the problem of financing the health insurance fund has somehow been solved. Has the Committee on Social Affairs really not paid attention to the fact that he who resolves it is himself, figuratively speaking, bankrupt? Just writing money out of the budget to the health insurance fund doesn't mean anything! So do you have an alternative plan that the Health Insurance Fund supports the state budget? After all, the state budget is in a very serious structural disadvantage, according to the European Commission, it is less than 350 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U187	Thank you very much for your question. In this context, the Committee on Social Affairs did not discuss the issue of the state budget. We did discuss these percentages in the draft, which relate to the payment of an additional premium for pensioners to the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. I already mentioned that. I can also say the sums, maybe it's more illustrative. In 2018, 34 million additional funds will be allocated to health care, 46 million in 2019, 53 million in 2020 and 76 million in 2021. That's what the Social Affairs Committee was talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U188	Margus Tsahkna.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U189	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. I would like to begin by congratulating the work of the Social Affairs Committee. My colleague, Urmas Kruuse, mentioned a small concern, which I consider to be substantial when the services financed by the state budget are raised under the sickness fund and, in terms of finances, also become a small part of a large health fund budget. The Commission, I understand, has gone into depth and supported these amendments so that they remain in this large budget, either in small terms or in separate budgets, so that we can at least see that funding continues. Since I do not have such a large group apparatus behind me and I am here under the window, I ask you as Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee: do you recommend that I support the proposals of the Social Affairs Committee when there is a vote in this Chamber today?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U190	I suggest you vote by conscience. I must also say that there was no debate in the Committee on Social Affairs about how one or another member of the Riigikogu would vote, nor did the issue of Margus Tsahkna rise up there. However, this time was touched when Margus Tsahkna was a minister. There was another socialist minister next to you, but things didn't move and there wasn't any more money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U191	Thank you. Our rules now recommend that I open negotiations. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U192	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I came here to explain why it is important to keep the amounts from the state budget and health insurance contributions separate from the sickness fund. So first of all, I'm going to make a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a We are not dealing with the allocation of money for pensioners or for pensioners. We are dealing with a state budget allocation which is calculated on the basis of the amount going into pensions. Let us be correct! Correction first of all, because if we talk wrong, we think wrong, and then we make the wrong decisions. But now for the reasons why these sums must be separate. This is because, in the case of health insurance, as the word says, it is insurance, which means that the payer receives something in return for it. If I'm insured, I have a right to receive something in return. As we know, we have legal insurance for those who are payers of the state or who pay for their income. These are health-insured people. And we also have individuals treated as health-insured, the largest group of whom are pensioners. They shall relate to pre-determined costs. If you are ill, doctors will be paid for the service, you will be given medicines. You will get sick and receive sickness benefit at that time. This is what you insure yourself for. In addition, the country has a number of other health responsibilities, which have so far been mostly organised by the Ministry, as well as by the National Institute for Health Development and other bodies. They're in public finance. The most well-known and most important of them is the ambulance. Ambulance has been financed from the state budget because we are all entitled to this aid, no matter who we are and whether we are here temporarily or permanently. There's no insurance connection. Such things, which are absolutely necessary in any case, are the responsibility of the state. It's also in terms of concept, theoretically always has been. Now, if this provision is made to the health insurance fund and the money gets mixed up, then at some point, it could happen that there is no more money coming from the state. Indeed, these amounts will increase in the coming years. Let's put on the percentages and make it look like there's a lot of money. I imagine next year and the next year, there's gonna be an infinite amount of money at the Health Insurance Fund. But at some point, it's not just gonna come up. And at some point, the cost of things that are not linked to health insurance will be very high and then what must not be done will be done: the fulfilment of the state's obligations will be financed by contributions from insured persons. That's why we have to keep things separate. And that does not mean an increase in bureaucracy. We simply need to keep a record of the state's responsibilities in the health insurance fund and make sure that these state's obligations are covered by state funds, not by health insurance. That's all that's required. And when that money runs out, the state will have to put more money into it. I am very pleased that when we voted on our proposals in the Commission, these rational proposals were supported. I hope that this will remain the case if we are supposed to adopt it as a law on 6 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U193	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U194	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Draft 512, which amends the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act and other laws, has undoubtedly been drafted with the aim of ensuring better access to health care for Estonian people and the sustainability of health care. The aim is also to take steps to improve the functioning of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and to obtain higher incomes from other sources. We are in favour of this with two hands and we realise that maintaining health care through labour taxes alone is not sustainable in the long term. At the same time, this draft proposed by the Ministry is a little confusing, because it wants to change our healthcare financing system, which will lead to a proper conceptual confusion. I sincerely hope that the decisions made by the Social Affairs Committee on the basis of the proposals made by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party will also be supported in this large Chamber today. If we do not support these amendments approved by the Committee on Social Affairs and the vote should go differently, there will be more confusion than for the ruble. Why? Because the model for financing health insurance services is intended to decouple so-called health insurance and social tax revenues. This is actually the way the whole Estonian health care financing system is changed. If we do not support these amendments, the borders between health insurance payments and the services financed by the state will become even more blurred. However, we consider it important that health care is increasingly guided by the principles of insurance and personal responsibility, not to distance itself from them. It may also create a risk that cannot be accepted in any way, I mean the risk that the health insurance fund will be consciously put in place to cover the deficit in the financing of public services. There is one more thing that is confusing about this bill. The Ministry announces in its press releases that health care will be around EUR 200 million in the coming years. It's a kind of hat trick, and actually, 100 million comes with so-called pure money. But that's it. It has also gone wrong in this draft that, although these are very important changes to be made by the Ministry, they have entered the draft without the intention of developing and sufficiently involving the social partners. And it is certainly not acceptable for the responsible minister to take such an attitude that the intention to develop does not contribute at all to the quality of legislation. There's no excuse for that. And there is certainly no reason why this is an urgent draft. We know that these changes have actually been planned and prepared for a very long time. The aim of the proposal to ensure better access to medical care and medicinal products and the sustainability of the health system is certainly very important, very justified. Unfortunately, redeploying revenue from the state budget from one budget line to another does not contribute much to the sustainability of healthcare funding. There is only a blurring of funding limits and criteria, and I am not sure that this will actually improve the situation of the taxpayer. In conclusion, I hope that you will all support the Commission's proposals and the results of the Commission's votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U195	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U196	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a lot of talk about the details and the big problem at the edge. I just want to talk about the big one. It's not like the ambulance and all that redeployment is the key. The key issue is that it is said that the problem of health failure is solved by giving more money to the system in the budget. It's a scam! This is the same or even greater fraud than the fact that Monika Haukanõm said: that speaking of 200 extra million, we are talking about half the smaller amount of so-called "real money," the rest being borrowed. I mean, the budget's down. The fact that the budget is kept up on loans and reserves and put in place to support the health insurance fund is not a sustainable solution. That means the crippled supports the cripple. Let us now try to keep the focus on buying health care for a loan after us, whether we come or the Flood! This is the most serious issue of public finances. Health costs and their control are the biggest problem in all developed countries because they are exponential growth due to a number of factors: ageing of the population, costing life, increasing demand for wealth, as people start to think more about health and demand more. Health equipment and medicines are more expensive than other goods and people can be treated indefinitely. So the question of sustainability here is not solved in any way, fools are played and benefactors are played. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U197	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. There are 13 proposals for amending bill 512; we will review them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. A second amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U198	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U199	Let's vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal is 31 in favour of 41 members of the public, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The third amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U200	I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U201	Please! Is the Riigikogu ready to vote? Thank you! I am voting on the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. 31 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 41 against and no abstentions. The third amendment was not supported. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U202	I would also like to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U203	Please! Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. 31 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 40 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 6 has also been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 7 was tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Priit Onions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U204	I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U205	Please! I shall put to the vote Amendment 7, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. 33 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 41 against. There were no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 8 has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 9 has also been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 10 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U206	Thank you. I would also like to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U207	Please! Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the tenth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. 32 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 42 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, decision of the commission: take full account. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, the decision of the commission: take full account. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, decision of the commission: take full account. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U208	I ask you to vote on this. It seems that there has been confusion with these re-elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U209	Please! I shall put to the vote the 13th amendment tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs. The decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. 44 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, with 29 abstentions. The proposal made by Jürgen Ligi was supported. We have examined all 13 amendments together. The commission's proposal is to stop the second reading of draft 512, but the president's table has had to stop the second reading of draft 512 by the Free Party Group. As this is a group proposal, we will vote on it. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U210	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. I would like to take a five-minute break on behalf of the Free Party Group before voting on the proposal to interrupt.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U211	Break five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U212	I shall put to the vote the second reading of the draft proposal of the Free Party Group 512 to be suspended. Please take a stand and vote. 31 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 41 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 512 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U213	Eighth item: Second reading of draft law 514 on the amendment of the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Mr Helmen Küti, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U214	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen! I give an overview of what has happened between the amendment of the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the first and second reading of the draft law amending other laws. As the first reading of the draft took place on 11 October, a reminder to the extent that the draft provides for the reimbursement of a greater proportion of the cost of medicines they have purchased to people with a greater need for treatment than has been the case so far. This will improve access to medicines for people with high medical costs. As has been said, the first reading took place on 11 October. To remind you so much, the Government of the Republic initiated this draft on 25 September and the deadline for amendments was set at 25 October. The amendment was tabled by Maris Lauri, a member of the Riigikogu. I note immediately that this proposal concerned paragraph 13 of § 1 of the draft proposal, which seeks to replace 'EUR 100' with 'EUR 150', i.e. to increase the relevant price limit. As a reminder, the current rate at which 50% reimbursement starts is EUR 300. If the cost exceeds EUR 500, 90% of the amount exceeding EUR 500 shall be reimbursed. However, this proposal concerns an increase from EUR 100 to EUR 150 of the minimum proposed in the draft. What did the Social Affairs Committee do at its four meetings? First of all, the Social Affairs Committee asked the stakeholders involved to submit their opinions by 13 October. The Estonian Employers' Confederation also sent its opinion on the draft. The Ministry of Social Affairs presented proposals to supplement the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act and related amendments to other laws in order to bring a certain point from draft 512 into draft 514. The Committee on Social Affairs finalised the draft amendments on the basis of proposals from the Ministry of Social Affairs. The first meeting at which the draft was discussed was on 6 November. The following was held on 7 November, where Maris Lauri presented his proposal. We had one meeting on 13 November, where the following decisions were taken: to propose that the draft be put on the agenda for today, 22 November, to propose that the second reading be stopped and, when it is closed, to send the draft to third reading by 6 December and then to hold a final vote. All the decisions were consensual. I will now introduce the amendment tabled by Mr Lauri. As I said, it was discussed on 7 November. I will read this amendment to you: 'Change Article 1 (13) of the draft and replace 'EUR 100' with 'EUR 150'. ' The explanation was this: 'The EUR 100 limit is too sloppy given the long-term unsustainable nature of the resources of the Health Insurance Fund. It is known and predictable that medicines will increase and incomes will continue to rise. With the current solution, we can reach a situation in a few years' time where, in essence, all prescription medicines are free of charge and in a situation where, due to income growth, the availability of medicines has not deteriorated. The low level of additional reimbursement may encourage the purchase and sale of more expensive original medicines, which would be contrary to long-term policies that encourage generic medicines to be used in order to make better use of social and personal resources. " We discussed this proposal on 7 November. As a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Maris Jesse explained that setting this limit on the amount of medical benefits is a health policy decision. The Ministry of Social Affairs prepared the draft with a drug benefit limit, where many people with high medical costs would benefit. After all, the cost of medicine is the reason why people are not buying some drugs. The risk that people would start using more expensive medicines does not exist, as only the own contribution related to the maximum amount of benefit is taken into account in the medical benefit. Voting was also held on 13 November. Amendment 1 is to change the title of the draft: if you look, you will see that we voted to change one letter. The title now contains the word 'linkedly'. It was a consensual decision, nobody called for a vote, everyone supported it. Amendment 2, which was then proposed by Maris Lauri, a member of the Riigikogu, on point 13 of the draft, where he proposed setting a limit of EUR 150 instead of EUR 100, was in favour of 4 members of the committee, was against 5. The proposal of the commission is therefore: not to be taken into account. Amendment 3 concerns the wording of the draft, which is submitted by the Committee on Social Affairs itself. It was a consensual decision, there was no vote. All the members of the Social Affairs Committee, who attended the meeting on 13 November, supported it by Monika Haukanõm, Marika Tuus-Laul, Viktor Vassiliev, Maris Lauri, Liina Kersna, Tiina Kangro, Jüri Jaanson, Dmitri Dmitriev and Helmen Kütt. Amendment 4 concerns § 5 of the draft, which sets out the dates of entry into force. This decision was also made in consensus, and there was no vote. At our meeting on 20 November, the last meeting of the Social Affairs Committee in which this issue was discussed, we decided to approve the draft second reading procedural documents and submit them to the Riigikogu plenary. It was also a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U215	Honourable waitress! My colleagues have no questions for you. Thank you. Now we go to the amendments that are... Sorry, we have a round of negotiations before the amendments. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U216	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, As my amendment was presented in a very superficial manner, I will do it in a little more detail and explain the reasons behind the proposal. According to the current law, about 8500 people are entitled to additional medical benefits. However, it is used by some 2,500 people and the reason is very simple: the system is extremely bureaucratic. In this sense, it is good that the draft will make the whole system more flexible and less bureaucratic. There's nothing against that! There are currently €300 and €500 limits for medicines and these limits are now much lower. The Minister explained to us in the Commission when he presented the draft that he felt that the medicines could be free at all. Maybe if we were a very rich country. But we're not a very rich country. Yeah, well, there really are a lot of people who don't buy drugs. But would it be good if, instead of the 8500 people who could receive compensation now, 125,000 people received it, I am not so sure of that. I dare say that the Ministry did not discuss this issue in substance, it was a purely political decision. Just pulled a line where it seemed like enough people could be covered. It also seemed that there was money that could be distributed, because this bill was linked to the previous draft, in which this hall decided that the money that would be allocated from the state budget to the health insurance fund would have to be straightened out as a matter of urgency, with additional medical benefits. In fact, it means that there is not enough money to heal, for what we need to pay much more attention to. We have to take into account that medications are always getting high. If there is currently a relatively small number of people in need of additional medical benefits and there are at least 125000 people crossing the EUR 100 threshold, which is not a small number, then perhaps after two or three years there will be 250,000 or 500000. This number just increases because the drugs are always getting more expensive. In the end, we will indeed come to a situation where all medicines are fully reimbursed. You might think that if the limit is higher, people can buy fewer medications. But let us not forget that at the same time, people's incomes are growing. Increases in wages, increases in pensions, increases in net income, so that people's ability to buy medicines actually improves all the time. And let's be honest, if a person has a little motivation for paying for the medicine himself, it's more likely that he's actually using it properly. If the medicine is easily reached, or very cheaply, some will probably not use it. This question is much more complex than what is being said here. The thing is, we could discuss it. After all, the Minister in the Commission honestly admitted to drawing any line he likes, that the border is on this point. I would like us in the Riigikogu to discuss matters in essence, to discuss why this border could be here, there or in a third place, and to think about it economically. This cost is considerable: 3 million. But maybe in two or three years, it'll be $5 million, a little bit further to $10 million. And then the state budget hole is bigger than we think now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U217	There is no further wish for negotiation. We can go to the examination of the amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, and the lead committee has taken full account of it. The second amendment is the decision made by Maris Lauri, member of the Riigikogu, the commission's decision: not to take account of it. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U218	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on so that we can see who wants to straighten out the money from the Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U219	Got it! Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the second amendment tabled by Maris Lauri, a member of the Riigikogu, which the commission does not consider appropriate to consider. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was supported by 23 members of the Riigikogu, 39 against, 2 abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The third amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. No further amendments have been received. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 514. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U220	We are going to the ninth item on today's agenda. First reading of the draft law amending the Land Cadastral Act, the Land Cadastral Act and the Spatial Data Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 533. For a presentation please, Minister of the Environment, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U221	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of the draft law amending the Land Cadastral Act, the Land Underground Act and the Spatial Data Act is to complete the consolidation of the organisation of information technology services of the Ministry of the Environment. The aim of the amendments is to improve the provision of services in the field of information technology by the Land Administration, bringing them under the Information Technology Centre of the Ministry of the Environment, or KEMIT. Since the beginning of 2017, KEMIT has cooperated in the transfer of IT-related contracts and assets from the Land Administration to KEMIT. Since the middle of this year, all information technology procurements by the Land Administration are carried out by KEMIT. With the amendment to the Statute of the Land Administration, which entered into force on 1 June, the Information Technology Department of the Land Administration ceased its work, its functions being subsequently performed by KEMIT. Consolidation of ICT services in the country is a coherent approach and has been taking place for a long time. In addition to KEMIT, there are five other consolidated IT institutions responsible for IT development and management of the IT systems of the various ministries and their sub-offices. The concentration of services in a single institution reduces fragmentation and duplication in the provision of services and thus saves resources. Comprehensive development of services will also help to improve the quality of services. The information system shall have a controller and a processor in accordance with the Public Information Act. The controller shall be the authority which organises the deployment of the information system, ensures its legality and manages the development. The processor shall be the authority responsible for managing the information system and for carrying out the development work. The draft will move the appointment of a processor from the level of the law to the level of the regulation. In the relevant regulation, KEMIT is referred to as an authorised processor of the Earth Agency's information systems, i.e. it will continue to carry out information technology tasks related to the Earth Agency's information systems. Instead of the Ministry of the Environment, the Land Board becomes the controller of the land registry, as the services of the land register are essentially developed by the Land Board. After the amendment of the Land Cadastral Act, the Land Office is no longer an authorised processor of the Land Cadastral, but a cadastral holder, or controller. In the same way, it is necessary to amend the ground law, according to which a copy of the decision declaring the land to be harvested must be submitted to the Land Administration as a cadastral manager, i.e. to the responsible employee. This does not entail any change in substance, as a copy of such decision still has to be submitted to the Land Administration. In the Spatial Data Act, two terms of reference are added, according to which the controller and processor of both the Estonian geoportal information system and the data set of geodetic points are specified in the basic regulations of these information systems. Both information systems remain the controller of the Land Board and become the processor of KEMIT. In addition, the law amends so that authorised processors of the address data information system and the Estonian topography database are specified in the basic regulations of these information systems. At present, both information systems only have a controller, which is the Land Board, and in the future they will also have an authorised processor, which is KEMIT. As can be seen, a number of implementing acts will also need to be amended once the laws have been amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U222	There's a question for you too. Please, Raivo Põldaru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U223	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I ask this question: does the transfer of this IT department ultimately give savings to the state budget, or does it actually increase costs? How's that? It is one thing to lay off because some people can no longer be used, but another is to start working in the new administration. Is it essentially a change for the better, and are there any benefits in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U224	As a whole, this consolidation has often not resulted in savings in money, but has enabled quality to increase. As I mentioned, there are currently six IT institutions in Estonia where different ministries consolidate their IT services. In the field of the Ministry of the Environment, the situation is that all IT activities from all departments, as well as from the Ministry itself, are already concentrated in KEMIT. The Land Office is the last place it hasn't been done yet. It can be expected that in such a situation, apart from the increase in quality, it is reasonable to transfer the IT activities of this last subsidiary to a single centre in terms of efficiency. After all, this journey has been started and such a choice has been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U225	Good minister! No more questions for you. Thank you! Rainer Vakra will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U226	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to you the debate before the first reading of the draft in the Committee on the Environment. The draft law amending the Land Cadastral Act, the Land Underground Act and the Spatial Data Act was discussed in the Committee on the Environment on 13 November. At the meeting of the Commission, the Minister for the Environment and other representatives of the Ministry presented the draft and answered the questions put by the members of the Commission. As a result of this meeting, the Commission proposed to send the draft to first reading and to set the deadline for amendments at 16 a.m. on 24 November 2017. As far as the substance of the draft is concerned, the Minister has told us the same story that he has told us today. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 6 November. Its aim is to make the management and development of the information and communication technology system more efficient and information systems more secure in the area of government of the Ministry of the Environment. All these tasks will be transferred to the Information Technology Centre of the Ministry of the Environment. The positions of the Ministry of the Environment were defended by Minister Siim Kiisler, Deputy Secretary-General Margit Martinson, Head of the Department of Geoinformatics at the Land Office Mariliis Aren, Lawyer of the Land Office Egle Toomjõe and Director of the Information Technology Centre at the Ministry of the Environment Marko Arula. In addition to the redundancies of six people, which our good colleague has asked about here today, there was a particular interest in the quality of services. It was examined whether the changes would affect consumers of the services of the Land Administration. Margit Martinson pointed out that none of the services suffered as a result of this change. The content of the draft is a change in the organisation of work within the area of government of the Ministry of the Environment. Marilis Aren added that the quality of service has not been affected so far. Since February, however, support will be provided by KEMIT, which will apply different principles and the current support partner has warned against further price increases. In addition to these six redundancies, it was also discussed whether it was planned to take the jobs of the Information Technology Centre of the Ministry of the Environment out of Tallinn. The answer is that there is no such agreement, this institution will not be removed from Tallinn as a whole. In summary, please support this draft in the future in this Chamber. The Committee on the Environment left it open and supported it in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U227	Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, colleagues have no questions for you. Thank you. Now is the opportunity for the representatives of the political groups to say what they think about this draft. There are no requests to speak. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 533. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 533 amendments at 16 a.m. on 24 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U228	The last item on today's agenda is the draft Act No 528 on the ratification of the 2016 Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, initiated by the Government of the Republic, in Kigali. For the first reading, please speak to Minister for the Environment Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U229	Honourable manager! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Restricting the use of ozone-depleting substances has been an important global objective for more than 30 years. In particular, in 1985 the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer was concluded and in 1987 the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer. The Vienna Convention and the Montreal Protocol have 197 States Parties. Estonia acceded to the Vienna Convention and the Montreal Protocol on the basis of a law adopted in 1996. Since it has been ratified by the Riigikogu, the amendment to this foreign treaty must also be ratified by the Riigikogu. Last October, a meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol reached consensus on the amendment of the Protocol in the form of the so-called Kigali Amendment, which contributes to the Paris Agreement to keep global temperature rises well below 2 degrees above pre-industrial levels and to continue efforts to further limit the temperature increase to 1.5 degrees above pre-industrial levels. By the end of the 21st century, Kigali's change will make it possible to prevent an increase in global temperature by an estimated 0.5 degrees centigrade. The Kigali amendment introduces three main amendments to the Montreal Protocol. First, a new group of substances, HFC, is included in the scope of the Protocol, which are substitutes for substances that deplete the ozone layer with a high climate impact and are being removed from circulation. HFCs belong to fluorinated greenhouse gases and can have a major impact on global warming. HFCs are mainly used in refrigeration and cooling equipment, including air conditioners, aerosols, fire-extinguishing systems and foam production. HFCs are the main substitutes for ozone-depleting substances. Secondly, HFC reduction commitments are imposed. Developed countries will have to reduce their volume by 85% by 2036, while developing countries will have to reduce their volume by 2047. Third, since 1 January 2019, a system of import and export licences for HFCs has to be implemented. In the European Union, the HFC register prepared by the European Commission has already been implemented since 2015, and the required reports have to be submitted. The current Regulation ensures that the requirements of the Kigali amendment are met. This is therefore a formal change and will not have any significant impact on European Union companies, including Estonian companies. Thus, the approval of Kigali's amendment does not entail any additional need to amend Estonian law. The use of HFCs in the European Union is governed by a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council and its implementing acts, which are directly applicable to Estonia. The Kigali amendment itself will enter into force on 1 January 2019 if at least 20 parties have submitted their ratification documents by that time. To date, 21 countries have already ratified the Kigali amendment, so it will also enter into force on 1 January 2019. However, ratification will lead to an increase in the Montreal Protocol contribution tax and will increase the contributions of the developed countries to the Fund by starting to finance a reduction in the use of the added group of substances, i.e. HFCs, in developing countries. Our membership fee is currently EUR 58985, and it is estimated that the membership fee could be EUR 110000. When drafting this draft law, it was found that the source of funding for the compulsory membership fee should be decided in the process of drafting the state budget strategy 2019 Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U230	Good minister! Peter Ernits would like to clarify something. Please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U231	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! There's a lot of questions. It has been said that hydrofluorocarbons have an impact on regional development as well as on demography. How do these evil substances in refrigerators and fire extinguishers affect the lives of Estonians? Demographic effects have also been mentioned. Why don't you open them up?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U232	As far as I know, there's no effect on the disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U233	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U234	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. My question is motivated by the difference in the amount of the membership fee. In your oral presentation, you mentioned smaller numbers, the bill seems to be a little bigger. And second of all, please explain this connection! As additional substances will be included in the scope, will there be an increase in membership in this regard? Please specify a little!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U235	The membership fee mechanism is so structured that a new budget is drawn up every three years. The membership fee therefore changes every three years. Financing for the withdrawal of HFCs will start in 2021 and the actual membership fee will be available in 2020. The budget of the Fund shall be agreed by means of international negotiations between those parties to the Convention. The budget is now based on a report from the Montreal Protocol Technical Assessment Panel, which reflects possible scenarios for the elimination of HFCs, which may provide for the replacement of HFCs in companies against alternative substances, the closure of production, awareness raising and so on. As I said, the final amount will be the result of negotiations between the Parties to the Protocol. The amount of the Fund's budget and contribution shall depend, in particular, on the reduction commitments made by developing countries and the timetable for their implementation. In essence, developing countries and developed countries agree among themselves on how much money is needed to support developing countries' activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U236	Next, Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U237	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned that 21 countries have already ratified the amendment to the protocol. Are they already, or are they going to, approve the document by the great powers of the United States, China and Russia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U238	Among these 21 countries are nine European Union countries: Sweden, Malta, Hungary, Luxembourg, Germany, Finland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and the United Kingdom. There are 15 countries outside the European Union. These are Australia, Canada, Chile, North Korea, Maldives, Mali, Marshall Islands, Micronesia, Norway, Palau, Rwanda, Tuvalu, Comoros, Trinidad and Tobago and Laos.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U239	Peter Ernitsa has another question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U240	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Yes, the second question is also, even the third. You said that the membership fee could be up to EUR 160000. Well, I read here that the real top line is up to 187,000. But the necessary funds are large, the world needs 10 billion. It has been said here that the funding for withdrawal will start in 2021, but we will get a share a few years before it does. At the same time, it is already necessary to report to the UN Ozone Layer Secretariat on how much we have destroyed, imported, exported and so on. Will these two years be added to the membership fee itself for the destruction of these evil substances and only later will we be internationally funded?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U241	Thank you. I understand what's going to be the difference between this monetary number. I can now better answer the question of Urve Tiidus. I said the amount of EUR 110000 to EUR 160000, the amount of EUR 126000 to EUR 187000. This leads to a difference in numbers. But as far as who pays whom, unfortunately, we are counted among the developed countries. It's exactly the same with the Paris Agreement. The measures needed to achieve this were recently discussed at a major climate conference in Bonn. We're talking about how much we pay the others, not how much the others pay us. Estonia, together with the other countries of the European Union, undertakes, having agreed with the developing countries how much support they will receive from us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U242	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U243	Thank you. It shows how much switching to alternative substances and technologies costs. But have account been taken of how effective these new substances and technologies are and how much more expensive their application will be in the future? How much is that going to cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U244	The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states the impact on the economy; no such calculation has been made directly. This, of course, may mean clear additional obligations for individual companies, but on the other hand, we will try to assess the damage. This is the case with global climate problems. Scientists around the world are working very hard to assess the damage that climate change is causing in the world as a whole. Unfortunately, certain commitments must be made by everyone. Unfortunately, agreements will not work if some take on commitments and others do not. Now certain technologies are also moving to countries that do not take on these reduction commitments. I assume, in the end, that the financial impact on society will also be positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U245	Henn Põllaas, your second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U246	Thank you. In terms of climate warming, only recently did a group of scientists report the results of their research into the melting of Antarctic ice, not as a result of global warming, but as a result of the heat emitted from lava lava beds. What's your position? Which camp do you belong to? Do you even believe that the climate is warming, or are you in the company of opponents?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U247	I believe the climate has changed recently. This can be seen in various parts of the world. Many of our people also find that the climate in Estonia has changed in recent years. Of course, we can make different assessments that are the result of the changes, but the general view is that to some extent they are also man-made. When we look at the Montreal agreement, it was quite unanimous that, if the original idea was to replace the gases and liquids used in refrigeration, because it makes sense from the point of view of protecting the ozone layer, it is now a similar change. In my opinion, it is generally accepted that an attempt to conclude an agreement and thus reduce greenhouse gases has been correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U248	Good Minister, there are no more questions from members of the Riigikogu for you. Thank you. The Committee on the Environment has considered it appropriate that the report be made on behalf of the Commission by Meelis Mälberg. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U249	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who have stayed in the Chamber late at night! The Government of the Republic initiated draft Act 528 on the ratification of the 2016 Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer on 23 October this year. Siim Kiisler, Minister of the Environment and Kaidi Virronen, Chief Specialist of the Department of Ambient Air, were invited to the meeting of the Environment Committee on 6 November. The Minister introduced this one-phrased bill here so thoroughly that I will not rewrite it. Let me tell you a little bit about the debate that took place in the Commission. In principle, questions and answers revolved around two topics: the necessary money and the impact on Estonian companies and people. There's been a lot of talk about money here today. There are, in itself, very large sums of money behind this single-phrased law. It is estimated that the fund from which these changes will be financed could amount to a total of 6 to 10 billion by 2050. The main contributors to this are the USA, 32 million, Japan, 21 million, Germany, 14 million and France, 11 million a year. The amount of Estonia, as has already been said, is 110000 euros per year. In answering questions from members of the Commission, the representatives of the Ministry did not consider the impact on Estonian companies and the lives of Estonian people to be significant. Indeed, the HFCs we are talking about are mainly used in refrigeration, aerosols, fire-extinguishing systems and foam production. The reduction of these gases in Estonia has already been agreed in the European Union in 2015 and is regulated by a directly applicable EU regulation. This particular Kigali amendment concerns, in particular, the international level, so that developing countries also come with this European regulation. At its meeting on 6 November, the Committee on the Environment took the following decisions: to appoint Meelis Mälberg, member of the Committee on the Environment, as rapporteur for the 528 draft, to propose the first reading of the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 22 November, to propose that the first reading of the draft be completed, and to propose that the deadline for the draft amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 29 November. All decisions were taken by consensus by the Committee on the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-22_U250	Dear waitress, colleagues have no questions. Thank you. It is now possible for the political groups to say what they think of this draft. The political groups do not want to take this opportunity. The commission has proposed, as you have heard, to conclude the first reading of draft 528. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 16 a.m. on 29 November. Ladies and gentlemen, We have successfully passed the agenda that has been proposed to us today. I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00. Have a nice evening. Closure of the sitting at 5.58 p.m.
