ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 9th working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Date of delivery of the preliminary claim and enquiries. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Seven members of the Free Party will submit an inquiry to Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. This concerns the Green Paper on alcohol policy and Estonia's failed excise policy. In February 2014, the Government of the Republic approved such a basic document on alcohol policy. Among other things, it clearly envisaged a balanced, moderate increase in excise duty for the next four years, and a high target for such taxes in view of the price level of neighbouring countries and the potential emergence of a secret market. By the way, at the time the Green Paper was approved, the Minister of Social Affairs started reviewing this excise agreement and excise duties started to rise faster. And it got even more complicated when the government of Jüri Ratas put on the vunk. We are now in a situation where border trade, purchases by Finnish tourists are decreasing, the emergence of a secret market is also being re-sold, and the closure of country shops has become a major problem, as has the non-receiption of excise duty and the confusion with the state budget. In this context, we have some important questions for the Minister for Health and Labour, who has been involved in these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U3	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U4	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today initiating a draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Japan on the prevention of double taxation and on the prevention of tax evasion and tax fraud and related protocol. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste in the proceedings of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U5	I have adopted one draft and one inquiry, and we will proceed with them on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! Currently, there are 78 members of the Riigikogu. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 9th working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U6	Artur Talvik, Monika Haukanõm, Andres Ammas, Krista Aru, Külmiki Kübarsepp, Andres Herkel and Ain Lutsepp have submitted the first question on the agenda. Arthur Talvik, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U7	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Prime Minister! This inquiry was prompted by the situation in Catalonia, namely how, before the referendum and during the referendum, and now brutally even after the referendum, homepages and other Internet sources have been increasingly closed, including during the referendum, those with lists on the basis of which the referendum could be held. As the current Presidency of the Council of the European Union, Estonia has appointed its Presidency as a digital Presidency, and Estonia considers itself to be at the forefront of the digital sphere. The digital policy of the Estonian Presidency focuses on important issues such as free movement of data, e-commerce, e-governance. Estonia has positioned itself as a digital pioneer country. At the same time, the Estonian Presidency's programme strangely fails to take into account the problem of Internet freedom, which is crucial for the functioning of a free digital society. If public power can easily block websites and forums, monitor personal conversations on the Internet, collect information and otherwise intervene from a power position in the online exchange of information, the fundamental values of a democratic society will be at risk. In the worst case, such action could run counter to some of the provisions of Title II of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union: the right to freedom and security, freedom of expression and information, the protection of personal data, freedom of thought and conscience and freedom of religion, respect for private and family life. Violation of Internet freedom is sometimes hidden or confusing, but even if these violations are obvious, they are often not taken as real violations because they do not occur literally in the physical world. However, Internet freedoms are a reflection of fundamental rights and freedoms in the digital world and cannot be considered as secondary phenomena. And, therefore, we are also referring to the Spanish intervention in Catalonia issues and the restriction of Internet freedom there. The blocking of Internet sites was massive and still massive. Even today, many organisations that think differently politically than the Spanish central government have closed down their homepage or are banned themselves. The situation is actually crazy there, and the members of the former Catalonia government are in prison. On this basis, we have put five questions to the Prime Minister, hoping to get meaningful answers to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U8	In the same hope, I give the floor to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, who must answer the question. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U9	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, first of all, I would like to thank you very much for your substantive questions and for raising a very serious issue. I'm trying to be on the same level as the questioners. Of course, if this works, it's a question of its own. First of all, I note in a little more general terms that the introduction to the programme of the Estonian Presidency sets out the basic principles on which we base our political efforts. In pursuing these objectives, we certainly respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect the principle of better regulation, and consider the possibilities of using different e-solutions, of course. Freedom on the Internet is enshrined in the programme of the Presidency under human rights, because it is part of freedom of expression. Protection of personal data and privacy are dealt with in the chapter on the free movement of data in the programme of the Presidency. In the framework of the European Union's data protection reform, the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (EU-GDPR) was adopted in 2016, which will enter into force in May 2018. In order to complete the reform, we have set the objectives of our Presidency's programme to move forward successfully with the negotiations on the e-Privacy Regulation. What is this regulation about? In general terms, it concerns the confidentiality of messages, privacy and the protection of personal data for electronic communications. That's what we've done. The regulation has been actively dealt with in the working group and already this year on Christmas, 4 December the Estonian Telekom Council has planned a report on the work done. With the adoption of the ePrivacy Regulation next year, the European Union's data protection reform will be completed. In the Justice and Home Affairs Sectoral Programme, we aim to rapidly conclude negotiations on a regulation of the European Parliament on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the various institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the Union. Two weeks ago, negotiations began with Parliament. We hope to reach an agreement by the end of the Presidency. Data protection has also been discussed at various events, conferences, seminars, meetings. For example, a conference convened by the Ministry of Justice in Tartu took place in September, with the participation of European data protection specialists, representatives of large companies and, if so, an apology for the use of this word! In the best sense, the watchdogs of society. The main topics discussed at the conference were the use of data in e-governance, security versus retention of communication data and issues related to the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation, including in the private sector. Representatives of large companies and groups, such as representatives of Google, also participated in the conference. The second question: 'Although this is not the intention of the official Presidency, we ask whether you have discussed, or intend to discuss, with your colleagues in the European Union, the guarantee of Internet freedoms in Europe and the problems associated with it, and if so, what feedback did you receive? The digital era means that blocking forums without sufficient ground basically means the same as spreading a peaceful meeting by the police. ' Internet freedom and other such issues are largely dealt with by the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, where Estonia belongs to several working groups in this field. This is a multifaceted issue. It is quite natural that I cannot mention a specific draft of Internet freedom. At the same time, during our Presidency, there are on the table and these are also included in the main document of our Presidency, the programme of the Presidency, a number of drafts relating to guaranteeing freedom on the Internet, such as the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, which, among other things, addresses issues relating to access to audiovisual media services; the so-called Accessibility Directive, which facilitates access to the Internet for people with special needs; the Satellite and Cable Regulation, which aims to improve cross-border access to TV and radio programmes online. The Code of Electronic Communications, which is directly linked to ensuring freedom of the internet, should certainly not be overlooked, which should create the conditions for investing in ultra-fast networks and pave the way for the deployment of 5G mobile networks and the Internet of Things. The aim is to ensure that European citizens have access to fast and high-quality internet access. Estonia organised, as you know, an informal meeting of the Human Rights Working Group in Tartu on 19 and 20 October under the Presidency, where one of the topics was Internet freedom. The following question: 'What is your assessment of the events that took place in Catalonia, as Prime Minister of the Council of the European Union, where, in addition to street violence by the police, digital pressure has also taken place, where any debate on the Catalonia referendum on the Internet was attempted to prevent the incessant blocking of websites by the central authority? What must be done to ensure that restrictions on Internet freedoms in the European Union are not too light? " The answer is this. I have repeatedly confirmed and reaffirmed that Estonia naturally supports Spanish unity, Estonia supports territorial integrity. Spain is a democratic country based on justice and order. I am sure that Spain will resolve this situation on the basis of the Spanish Constitution and other laws. I therefore believe that all the measures taken so far are based solely on these principles. The next question: 'What problems do you see in the area of Internet freedoms in Estonia more narrowly and in the European Union at large? Will the legal regulations of Estonia and the countries of the European Union adequately protect Internet freedoms? What must be done to ensure that public authorities do not unduly monitor their citizens in the digital world and thus violate their fundamental rights? ' At EU level, a number of necessary regulations already exist, but some will be adopted soon. For example, the same aforementioned General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and e-Privacy Regulation (e-Privacy Regulation). Member States must focus on their implementation. The same applies to the implementation of the NIS Directive in 2018. The challenge that national law enforcement authorities are facing is the spread of extreme material, including that which incites terrorism, on the Internet. Estonia does not support rigid legislative regulation, but rather advocates a voluntary approach, i.e. involving large technology companies, especially the private sector, in order to jointly find ways to remove terrorist content and increase the spread of a positive counter-narrative on the Internet world. To this end, as early as 2015, the European Commission has called a European Union Internet Forum, covering both private and public sectors, to be held on 6 December. Estonia is represented there by the Minister of the Interior. As a chair, we also organised a separate event for input to the forum, where large companies shared their experience in combating radicalisation in the online environment. At this point, I would like to stress that Estonia believes that trust, as well as openness, must be the basis for the functioning of the digital society. Therefore, Estonia does not support the creation of 'backdoors' to access encrypted communication. The following question: 'What does Estonia intend to do as a digital state, to ensure that Internet freedoms are respected internationally and to help them become aware of their importance in the functioning of modern free society? How does the Estonian state support internet freedom monitors and defenders who operate in non-governmental organisations both in Estonia and in the rest of the world? ' For Estonia, freedom of the Internet remains important. This is also proven by the fact that Estonia has been at the forefront for several years in the analysis of freedom of the Internet prepared by Freedom House every year. The report 'Freedom of the Net 2017' was published on 14 November, in which Estonia shares 1st and 2nd seats with Iceland, as it did last year. Estonia is an active member of the Free Internet Coalition, founded in 2011, and belongs to the core group of the Community. In 2013 and 2014 Estonia held the chairmanship of the coalition. Important topics and areas were agreed under Estonian leadership, Tallinn Agenda for Freedom Online was also adopted, which is still an important document and is quite often referred to in international forums. This document also contains Estonian principles in this field. In 2012, the Freedom of the Internet Coalition established a Trust Fund for Defenders of Digital Freedoms, one of whose donor is our country. We also consider it very important to protect freedom of the Internet outside Estonia, because the internet is one, the internet is common. In June 2017, the 10th anniversary conference of EuroDIG was held in Estonia. It was a major European event involving 47 countries, all members of the Council of Europe. EuroDIG covers all Internet-related topics. All the results of the discussions are, of course, public and published on the website. The parties to the discussions in Tallinn have been NGOs, the public sector, the private sector and the academy, and the results of these discussions will be presented at the World Forum on Internet Governance under the auspices of the UN in Geneva in December. Estonia has always been actively involved in drafting resolutions on Internet freedom in the UN, and we certainly want to keep this line in this area. Thank you once again to the heirs! If there are any further questions, I will be happy to answer them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U10	There are further questions. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U11	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! In order to answer questions in the Riigikogu, of course, a certain format is usually prescribed for the minister. In general, his helpers prepare the answers. That is why, Prime Minister, I am not picking on you, but your assistants basically failed to prepare an answer to the third set of questions. But I know you can answer questions like this. Please try humanely, as easily and unambiguously as possible, to answer this third set of questions again. I'm really asking!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U12	You see, this is what happened: I told you there were very good, substantive questions. There is only one question: is the respondent on the level? But thank you for trying willingly to create this bridge between us and have not given up hope! We all understand that the subject of Catalonia is complex, very difficult. But I'm gonna stick to a hundred percent of what I said to you. But, of course, there is also a facet of humanity. I do not think that any of us want to see riots on the streets in one, another or third country, including a Member State of the European Union, and the police must intervene with force. No one really wants that. But what I told you, I can't say in any easier language. Spain is an important partner for Estonia, an important partner in the European Union and NATO. Spain and I are associated with a large number of joint activities related to the defence sector, such as the air security that is taking place in Ämari. Only a while ago, the Spaniards were in Ämari. Having also personally communicated with some of his acquaintances who live in Spain, I know that these opinions differ greatly. Some say that there has been a step beyond regulation, that the police have used too much force. Others say it has been done in accordance with the Constitution and other laws, just as much as is needed, and as little as possible. I have been actively communicating on this subject with the Spanish Prime Minister. I haven't sent out a press release every time I say that I don't think that all business phone conversations have to be recorded in the press release. No, you don't! The Spanish Prime Minister is concerned, I last saw him in Gothenburg, Sweden, on Friday last week. I think we all want him to have the strength to solve this issue. However, it is clear that we accept Spain as a democratic state, we accept the Spanish constitution. In the meantime, there was an issue about whether Estonia could mediate the resolution of this conflict in any way. As a matter of fact, it has never actually been on the table. We have not been asked for any mediation, this is a national issue. I can't explain this to you any better. But I come back to what I started with: this is a very complicated subject, including emotionally. Of course it is!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U13	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U14	Thank you, President-in-Office. Thank you, Prime Minister. You said that Estonia stands and must stand for the freedoms of the Internet, that it is even like our duty. That was one of the last sentences you said in your answers. And that the internet is one, the internet is not multiple. It is still unclear why Estonia does not take advantage of its so-called IT tigger position or digitalisation. Why doesn't he fight for Internet freedom to the end? If Internet sites are blocked on a mental basis in one European country, why does Estonia not make any small beeps? Tell me, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U15	Thank you. I am absolutely certain, and I also said this to you when I told you about all these working groups, forums, workshops, that, of course, freedom on the Internet is very important for Estonia. Of course this will be the subject of attention, we want to protect it, we want to develop it further. I do not agree with the statement that Estonia is not reacting in any way. This issue is currently very strongly linked to one country, one part of a country, Catalonia. It's an inquiry, it's mainly a concern, and I don't blame it. But in this case, we are based on a very simple logic. I will continue to repeat this in every response that Spain is a democratic country operating within the framework of its laws and its constitution. No country in the European Union or the European Commission has questioned this in any way. Estonia stands for Internet freedom. I don't know if I can answer a little more broadly, but there was a digital issue here too. The digital sector has clearly been one of the cornerstones of our Presidency. Among our four priorities, this is a very strong priority, very strongly at the forefront. What could show it? What could in a good way make that sound? It has not been the custom of the Presidency to hold a summit, that it has somehow been included in the rules. Rather, it has been customary for the leaders of the countries and governments of the European Union to meet in a very specific format, the European Council, in Brussels. Yeah, I know it's been Bratislava, I know I went there in person, and I know it's been Malta. And it was actually one of our wishes not only to show everyone that the European Union is also present here in Tallinn, in Estonia, I mean September 29th, but also to show it in substance. We wanted to give this input to ensure that the digital approach, the digital society, is united in Europe, so that no one asks whether it is needed. That question shouldn't be on the table anymore. For us, the problem is what the trans-national infrastructure will be like, what the trans-national rulebook will be like. We want to move forward in this area in order to provide as many solutions as possible, operational and credible solutions, which will certainly also reduce corruption. We want to achieve this by using e-solutions. On the one hand, they are intended for their own residents, who have 510 million here. On the other hand, they are intended for the European Union as an economic environment, as an entrepreneurial environment, as a job creator. We are not competing in this within the Union; we are competing with the United States and China, after all, it is a question of who is ahead of the digital sector. And there has always been another important question for Estonia: it is cyber defence. In this area, we want to be one more step ahead when we are in the field of different e-services. I'm sorry, the answer's a little long!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U16	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U17	Thank you. Prime Minister! You will master these adjoining topics, but there will be no answer to our fundamental question. It seems to me that the author of your answer, who basically failed to answer the third question, suggests that freedom on the Internet is not the subject of the European Union for us. You pointed out that the Council of Europe in Strasbourg was dealing with this. Yes, he is. Estonia, too, is a Member State of the Council of Europe, and indeed, when a country restricts freedom of expression, it is brought to quite a close attention. In which European Union meetings have similar problems been raised? I assume that this is clearly an issue at the Eastern Partnership Summit. Does it turn out, then, that the freedom of the Internet is an issue for the Eastern partners, but is not the case for the Spanish Catalonia? In this case, it is a double standard. Please, what's your comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U18	Thank you. First of all, thank you for your question. It should be noted that if we do our job in the government, whether as Prime Minister or Minister, we will do this as a team. Officials and other servants aren't there just to hang out. Of course, this work is done as a team. And if you come up with such a meaningful and good line of inquiry, you're not kidding! Then, of course, they must be answered with the help of the best specialists in the Estonian state. But the Prime Minister or the Minister will also contribute. So I don't think it's worth making fun of. And I only say congratulations on the public sector in Estonia. Now about double standards. There are no double standards, there can be no double standards! I will also personally prepare the Eastern Partnership meeting, as this is also the top event of the Estonian Presidency. This will take place in Brussels at the end of this week. I prepared it yesterday in the Bundestag when I met my German colleagues, and I have also been on the phone with the leaders of the European Union. We naturally need the outcome of the Eastern Partnership Summit to be a concrete final solution and to succeed. I assure you there are no double standards. And if you ask me where these issues are raised, I already answered that question. I said that be it the ministerial meetings, be it the conferences, be it at ambassador level, at all these meetings, this topic will rise in one way or another. If you want to know the dates, the times and how the topic has risen, then, for God's sakes, this information can also be provided to you. But I don't think that's what you want. You want a comment in principle. You yourself have done so much in the area of the Eastern Partnership. Let's take the same Georgia where you've really done a lot. In this Eastern Partnership summit, the very fundamental question is whether it will be a failed meeting or a successful meeting. I do not know whether this has to do with the event taking place in Brussels, but many of the leaders of the Member States are coming, so the assumption is quite good. I have always stressed the need to be present at these bilateral meetings. Since the early months of this year, when I began to meet the various heads of state bilaterally, I have stressed to them that it is important that you personally come there. I'm gonna keep doing this. It is now known that the leaders of about 20 countries will be there. Of course, we would like the leaders of 28 countries to take part in the event. However, further on, the question is what is the final outcome of the Eastern Partnership meeting. We know very well that this issue is seen differently within the European Union. And the role of Estonia is, in any case, to move this issue forward strongly. If we look at the Eastern Partnership Centre in Tallinn, we can see that these six countries have managed to launch very specific cooperation projects and other cooperation solutions. I think that the European Union's Eastern Partnership must offer real solutions, not allow things that one or the other party cannot or will not fulfil. Whether the solutions that the Eastern Partnership Centre has come out of Tallinn, be they journalists' trainings, top-level recruitment trainings, etc. These are all the measures that our Eastern Partners have proposed in cooperation with the Eastern Partnership Centre in Tallinn and that we can share our experiences in implementing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U19	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! It is a fact that Estonia is one of the leading countries in the digital world. Estonia is currently holding the Presidency in the European Union and the fact is that we do not know what is behind it, but there is limited freedom on the Internet in Spain. Why could Estonia not have told Spain that freedom on the Internet is something that is not being tackled? What would have happened if it had been said?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U21	Thank you for your question. Estonia has always based itself on one principle on the issue of the Catalonia conflict. We have said that Spain must act within the framework of its constitution and its laws, and that is our position today. Now they're starting to think that Spain isn't gonna do it. The question then is what is relied on to argue that Spain will not do so. That the situation is not good, we can all see. I see it, too, and I think it is seen by both Catalans and those who live in Spain and are not Catalans. Of course, the situation is not good, but the question is whether the law has crossed the red line. That's not the opinion we've had so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U22	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U23	I didn't want to speak, but you just brought in the subject that we've been based on Spain's constitutional behaviour. He acts constitutionally only in the sense that he complies with the Constitution as a written text. As we know, only one part of the constitutional order has been written, not anymore. That's why I'm asking you this question. Spain has declared freedom of expression and political freedoms, including the right of the peoples to self-determination, etc. Do we really consider it acceptable to send police forces and so on to peaceful demonstrations from the point of view of the Spanish constitution? Really?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U24	Thank you. When discussing constitutional matters with the Honorable Professor, I'm sure I'll always be defeated. But I've been asking the Spanish Prime Minister to put the police in order. It was not his order, it was under Spanish law. He said he didn't give the order.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U25	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! My question is driven by Mr Herkel's question and by such a somewhat duplicitous attitude towards Internet freedom. If the People's Republic of China bans, for example, the entire Google search system and if Russia restricts access to the Internet, then we say it very clearly. Now we say that we are based on whether the Spanish Constitution or other laws are being violated. It's like everything's okay in Spain. However, Spain, as a Member State of the European Union, may be violating some of the European Union's fundamental documents, for example, the Charter of Fundamental Rights. Do you think it's reasonable and justified that we're actually a little duplicitous?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U27	No, I don't think we can be two-faced. It doesn't make any sense to me to be two-faced, especially in such international matters. You referred here to China and the Russian Federation. I do not know what cases you are referring specifically to in these two countries. In the case of Spain, I understand clearly what the focus of the theme is now when we are discussing this issue. But you mustn't be two-faced about that, after all, you asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U28	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Arthur Talvik, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U29	President-in-Office of the Council. Thank you, Prime Minister. According to the website of the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, supporting freedom of expression on the Internet is as important as all other activities related to the protection and promotion of human rights, and that Estonia considers the report by the UN Special Rapporteur on Freedom of expression, Frank La Rue, as one of the most important international documents for Internet freedom since 2011. The main message of this report is that the freedom of virtual expression is a human right, like any human right that needs protection and extension. On the one hand, we are talking about how we stand up for Internet freedom so much that we equate it with all other human rights, but on the other hand we are still maintaining double standards. We are arguing with those countries where the internet is restricted, if they are not members of the European Union, but if a website is closed inside the European Union, we will not. It is not quite clear at the moment which law has shut down almost 200 websites that reflect a mind that is not pornosaid and does not call for anti-humanity acts or I do not know what other legitimate reasons in Spain that would allow these pages to be closed down. They are not radical sites, but talk about national culture, Catalan and other such things. I do not understand the constitutional clause or the law under which such pages are closed. Now Estonia's position. If we are proud that we are a champion of Internet freedom and a digital tiger in the world and, I don't know, an IT state or an e-state and what all these wonderful things are, then we should also be champions of the freedoms associated with them. As the Prime Minister said from this remote, it's as if we want to stand up for these freedoms. But then we have to stop! If we see anyone making a mistake in this area, because we are the spokespersons for it, in any case, whether we are the Presidency of the European Union or not, we have a duty to speak on this subject and say, 'Hey, guys, you there, don't mess around!' If you pull the Internet pipe a little bit, it could mean a reduction in global internet freedoms worldwide. And it's very easy to do. You can use the sentence that we don't interfere with territorial integrity, but that's the crap about Internet freedom you have there, we can't agree with that. At least do it if you dare not stand up for the self-determination of the nations! It's kind of sad. Several options have been shown to us from the same remote control, in which way Estonia would have been able to express itself completely freely and without arguing with the Spaniards in such a way that it should not be ashamed of what has been expressed. It is particularly sad that such statements have not been made on the Internet. We consider ourselves to be one of the leading countries in the field of e-commerce, but we do not stand for what we have promised to stand for and what is proudly written on the website of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U30	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U31	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, So, local government elections. One of the most difficult problems in the municipal elections was that we knew a lot of people who were always awesome and could be involved in local life and community in one way or another, but many of these people were not ready to apply. This phenomenon, in my opinion, was experienced by all political parties. And actually, there's a motive here. I'm running or not running? I'm going down, it's embarrassing. I'm running or not running? The headmaster lets go because I'm in the wrong party, I'm running and I get in, but then there's gonna be trouble with this guy. Jne. In short, there are a zillion comforting reasons why not apply. As ambassadors, we have often encountered the question that the court decided this way, and there it was done how this administrative reform, and not any other administrative reform, went through. But you can't ask: "But what did you do to make these things work? " Didn't do anything! This 'nothing' often happens, but behind it is not only laziness but also fear and fear. If we continue on the same subject, the Estonian Government will behave in the same way as those people who do not dare to say their opinion, because the headmaster lets go. We are very proud that we are the Presidency of the European Union. By the way, it doesn't take any favors, it's just in the alphabet the line gets to you, and that's the Presidency. So it's not really a big achievement. But we have declared ourselves leader in many other ways. Well, for example, budget balance is one of such topics, internet etc., etc. I mean, we have declared ourselves a leader. By the way, sometimes maybe even if we don't deserve it, but we just want to be a leader. And the leader means we're on TV, it's on the last page of the Telegraph, somewhere else. You see, we're small, but we are sometimes! Better than the others! But we forget that if we are better than others and if we declare ourselves as Europeans, and Europe is not a word of speech, so let us say, to some Member of the European Commission, but Europe is really a matter of heart for us, and if we really have a heart on something, be it budgetary balance, a smart economy, innovation, anything, then we cannot only have it in the way that we allow ourselves to be shown on television. We must make decisions for ourselves and we must dare to make proposals for decisions for others. A leader who dares not tell anyone what to do is not a leader. I think that the various positions of the Estonian Government in the European Union have not been leading but sluggish. How do you say everyone's happy? But it's not possible to be a leader without you making negative decisions. That's what the owner of every gas station tells you. It doesn't just mean that you count profit, but it means that sometimes you let a drunk off, that you sometimes apologize for bad production or ugly behavior, for not doing anything. It means you dare to do it. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U32	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U33	Thank you. In short, I'm afraid our government has not understood one thing. Thanks for the good fortune that this Presidency will pass, I think that the government is happy at heart that we will never have to do anything in Europe again, because doing something means having to say something and to be, to stand up. For the first time, we talked about it here with Juku-Kalle Raid when talking about the ESM and when Estonia was the only country with a normal budget and fulfilling the Maastricht criteria. Yes, we cannot order anyone, but this is the remote control, the only one in Europe that could have said: the economy is done like this, listen! Just as we should say today: this is how the internet is done, and that is what freedom on the Internet means! This is the country that shot down ACTA, which was supposed to be terroristly restricting all kinds of Internet freedoms. We have reason to be proud of it, and we can do other things. Well, what else can I tell you? What I'm saying is, we have some wisdom, we have some reputation, it's not good with courage. There is no courage and, as I understand from the Prime Minister today, there is no coming. What choice do we have? If we do not have a bold Prime Minister, if we do not have a brave government, then we could have a bold Riigikogu. I understand this was bad news right now, but you see, there's no one else in this country except us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U34	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to speak, the Prime Minister does. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U35	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! I hope that I will not break the Home and Working Procedures Act now, but I would first of all like to say that I am absolutely convinced that the issue raised by the questioners is very important. Even these darts of criticism at me, I totally accept them. But why did I say that I might be breaking the Home and Rules of Procedure Act? Because it's like I have nothing to say to those who ask this question but to praise them. I have now come to the Riigikogu Chair because the last negotiator who spoke in the course of this inquiry spoke of courage. Is the brave wolf's breast greasy or not greasy? What I'm saying is, I don't know if the Presidency will be over for luck or not. But I want to say what I have always thought during this Presidency. At any bilateral meeting involving the Presidency, whether with the Prime Minister of Slovakia or with the President of France, and in every performance in the European Parliament, the European Commission or the Bundestag, for example, I have always thought that the leaders of our country and the people of Estonia at one point said that Estonia's direction is to integrate strongly with Europe, that Estonia's direction is to join the European Union. In the best sense, I will take my hat off before the Estonian people, who are the highest power in the Estonian state, and before those Riigikogu members who have been active since the 1990s, before their governments and prime ministers. Because I think it was the only decision I could think of. I, too, during this Presidency, have thought that one thing is what the Presidency must do, and another is how the Presidency can make itself pay more, assert itself more, and thus make Estonia bigger, stronger and stronger. I cannot say such a sentence that, fortunately, the Presidency is almost over. Estonia bears the Presidency's responsibility until 24 o'clock on the evening of 31 December and contributes 100%. I know that there are 1,200 Estonian officials here next to me and behind me who have worked every day to ensure that the Estonian Presidency is successful, for my sake also bold, and to bear the idea that is actually needed in Europe. We have Brexit, but what Europe really needs is for the European Union to be as strong as possible, as uniform as possible, as safe as possible, as powerful as possible. If we look at the economic indicators, at how many jobs have been created, we will see that the Member States of the European Union are showing growth lately and that unemployment is falling. These are all very important emphasis, theme setting, nuances. In any case, the Estonian Presidency has been brave. We were expected to solve quite a number of things. I will give just one example of this courage. The Minister of Health and Labour of the Estonian Government had to reach an agreement on posted workers. As the interests of the countries of the various corners of the European Union were at stake, it was extremely difficult to conclude this agreement. But that agreement was born. There is also an example in the field of the Minister for the Environment. It has been teamwork and it has been the work of the Estonian people. So I cannot accept this criticism. In summary, I think that the greatest value of the membership of the European Union and Estonia is what really caused the European Union to be born. This alliance was born primarily as a peace project, and its peace has been guaranteed by it. I think that's the most important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U36	I will close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U37	The authors of the following inquiry are Anne Sulling, Kristen Michal, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Igor Gräzin, Laine Randjärv, Remo Holsmer, Hanno Pevkur, Aivar Sõerd, Maris Lauri, Urve Tiidus, Heidy Purga, Eerik-Niles Kross, Meelis Mälberg and Terje Trei. Anne Sulling, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U38	Good Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! It is no coincidence that the world's most prosperous countries, unless they are oil nations, are a diligent contributor to R &amp; D. Countries at the top of the global innovation index are mostly the same countries whose GDP per capita is among the largest in the world. This is also logical because, thanks to R &amp; D, companies reach the creation of new products and services with higher added value and find ways to make processes more efficient. Thanks to improved competitiveness, they are able to increase their turnover. And, as we know, if companies do well, the state's tax revenues will also grow and, ultimately, the people's lives will improve. This has been well understood by our northern neighbours. In fact, recently the Finnish R &amp; D Council reached a unanimous decision to increase Finland's R &amp; D expenditure to 4% of GDP in the long term. The state's contribution represents a third of it. At the same time, our similar R &amp; D council, under your leadership, has decided to freeze R &amp; D expenditure as a share of GDP this year at the level of the next four years, in a situation where R &amp; D expenditure represents only 1.5% of GDP, of which the state funding represents 0.81% of GDP. You are probably aware that such a decision goes directly against the Estonian R &amp; D and innovation strategy approved by the Riigikogu in 2014, which unambiguously sets the target of increasing R &amp; D expenditure to 3% of GDP by 2020 and increasing state funding for R &amp; D to 1% of GDP. In this regard, the members of the Reform Party Group have three questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U39	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U40	President of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! In fact, there are two ways: do I open this question and give you an overview, or do I not do it and tell you what I mean? I'll do both. I'll tell you what I'm thinking first, and then I'll give you a more substantive answer. First of all, I would like to thank you for asking me this question. For me, it is, in a way, a follow-up to this, I am very sorry to mention it here. What Krista Aru has been asking for. We have discussed the funding of science several times here, talking about this magical 1%. If it were only within my power, I could also allocate 1.5 or 2 or 3% of GDP to R &amp; D. I'm talking about public contributions. Our current contribution depends on what we can get into the state budget thanks to our businesses and our taxpayers, and it is not even an ounce more. In my opinion, there is also a problem with statistics concerning the private sector. Having met a lot of Estonian entrepreneurs, I am absolutely convinced that they contribute quite a lot to research and development every day, invest in innovation, but this is not reflected anywhere. If I've asked, but why don't you cover it somewhere, it's been said that we have no motivation for it. What motivates us to show some kind of data in statistics somewhere? I think there could be something in the Estonian country that would motivate these institutions-businesses, and it would most likely be to allow some kind of differentiation. You know what has been the principle of differences in tax policy in Estonia for the last 17 years: no distinctions! No distinctions! Yeah, now we're changing that principle, and I think that's right. Secondly, the honorable representative of the heirs and the heirs, you speak of how badly everything is. You have already brought out your document here in 2014. Then why hasn't that percentage been raised? But I'm not against that principle. I think this principle is very correct. But I'm about to get to the word 'freeze' that you used, saying that now the TAN has decided to freeze that percentage. Let's see if it's true or not. The first question: 'Why does your government fail to comply with the principles of the strategy approved by the Riigikogu and you have abandoned raising state funding for R &amp; D to 1% of GDP by 2020? " The decision not to give up the goal has certainly not been made. I don't know that decision. I do not know that the Scientific and Development Council, which I have chaired, has decided that we are not moving towards this goal. At the same time, both the current government and previous governments, which have also had several members of the Riigikogu who have signed an inquiry, have to admit that this is a very ambitious goal. I think this is the right goal, but very ambitious. A similar objective has been set by a number of countries in the European Union, and it must be said that this has not proved to be an easy objective in many countries. According to our team's 2016 data, this would make Estonia an absolutely first-place European Union country in terms of funding for R &amp; D by the public sector. According to data from 2015, Estonia exceeded the European Union average: if Estonia averaged 0.78% of GDP, then the European Union average was 0.74%. Estonia's 2016 figure fell to 0.61% of GDP, but this was largely due to the start of a new period of structural funds in the European Union. So don't read the criticism of the then Prime Minister's party. Investment in R &amp; D must increase, as this is an extremely important area for the development of our economy. It is essential that these investments continue to grow. The R &amp; D Council, which advises the Government of the Republic, has recommended that the proportion of public R &amp; D funding to GDP should be maintained as a minimum at the level of 2017 until 2021. This means an increase in R &amp; D expenditure at the same pace as gross domestic product. I would like to stress here once again that this is not a decision of the Government of the Republic, it is a recommendation from the Scientific and Development Council. The aim of the Scientific and Development Council was to set a minimum level, a minimum threshold, without abandoning more ambitious, larger targets. I am pleased that next year's state budget will increase public investment in R &amp; D by EUR 19.5 million compared to this year. Based on public budget and growth forecasts, public R &amp; D expenditure will increase from 0.78% of GDP in 2017 to 0.89% in 2018. Honourable heirs! You were talking about freezing. This increase certainly does not reach 1% of GDP. But 0.78 and 0.81 are different numbers. And 0.81 is greater in this comparison. Question 2: 'How do you think delaying the state's R &amp; D expenditure growth targets will contribute to improving Estonia's position in the global innovation index? ' I believe that the only motivation for our actions can never be to improve the rankings. We need to look at things more broadly, we need to look at things more substantively. However, according to the index you mentioned, Estonia's weaknesses are mainly those in which we find it difficult to make major changes ourselves. These are the shortage of R &amp; D companies with global coverage, the small size of the market, reduced foreign direct investment, the shortage of researchers in the private sector, etc. We are therefore in a weaker position according to indicators that are not necessarily improved by increasing R &amp; D expenditure in the budget. One of the objectives of the Estonian strategy for R &amp; D and innovation is to improve the position directly set in the EU Innovation Union Scoreboard. By 2020, we have set the target 10th place. Right now, as you well know, we're 15th. According to this Scoreboard, Estonia is lagging behind in the area of innovation activities of companies, which do not necessarily require high state R &amp; D costs. I'll come back to my introduction one more time. There is a need to motivate the private sector, also to involve it in the transmission of statistical data. In my opinion, Estonian companies contribute to this activity, but it is not included in the statistics. The question is why we do not motivate them to do so. I think that allowing for certain distinctions could start to motivate them. There is a clear lag behind innovation leaders in the amount of R &amp; D expenditure in the Estonian private sector, which is linked to the low level of innovation activity already mentioned and the low volume of knowledge in the general Estonian economy. Of course, we want to move forward in this area. In the business sector, R &amp; D activities are quite limited. Their total expenditure in 2016 was less than EUR 140 million, namely EUR 139,2 million. At the same time, I am convinced that private sector research and innovation can certainly be driven and encouraged by public intervention. I have already said twice that there is a need to motivate the private sector to do so. After all, it is common knowledge that R &amp; D returns are often not attractive enough for the company The cost of R &amp; D is not always known in advance and the risks are high. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, for example, supports the product development activities of companies that have not done this before with EUR 1 million from the 2018 budget. The desire is to expand the circle of R &amp; D companies. Question 3: 'In your recent visit to the Stanford Research Institute (SRI), the members of your delegation examined how Estonia could cooperate with the SRI. The management of the SRI indicated that they generally cooperate with countries whose R &amp; D expenditure is at least 2% of GDP. Estonia does not reach this point. Why don't you make sure that Estonia is an attractive cooperation partner for the world's research centres? ' Of course I will. What else did I go there for? I didn't just go there. Still because to get Estonia on the map better, it's still because we meet these SRI people, these scientists, and do some serious work there. There was a meeting table, there were presentations on my presentation, others' presentations. Everything was very busy and polite. So I take this very seriously. At the meeting with SRI representatives, there was never any understanding that SRI did not want to cooperate with Estonia. On the contrary, they repeatedly acknowledged Estonia's success in e-governance. And we've been in contact with the SRI people since my visit, working in a format of course. I do not exclude at all the possibility that we will include somebody there in the review of the Estonian strategy for research, development and innovation. I remember this SRI meeting very well. SRI has worked with Lithuania and Poland, for example, as far as I know, where the level of R &amp; D expenditure is also below the 2% you mentioned. And I would also like to say about the SRI that after their presentation they showed on the flags of certain countries, there was no Estonian flag. I asked then what we should do to get the Estonian flag there, so that we could have this cooperation format. So I raised this issue there, raised it proactively. I was talking to a person who was at the table today, and he said that he didn't think they said that 2% was some kind of threshold, but then they'd talk. No, it wasn't! I was accompanied by a business delegation there, and I do not deny it at all, but, on the contrary, I proudly say it. And we were with this business delegation in America, right there in the SRI, trying to build this cooperation, this bridge. Like I said, contacts go on, business relationships go on. If you will allow me, honourable heirs, I will only add another sentence on a subject that I think is actually very much involved in R &amp; D. It's the same membership of CERN. The current government has actually decided that we are going in this direction, that the money must be found. It offers many opportunities for innovation in Estonia, gives Estonian entrepreneurs opportunities to participate in competitions, gain new knowledge, new experience and raise their level of research and innovation in the field of various advanced technologies. Thanks for asking me about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U41	Questions for the Prime Minister. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U42	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! A while ago, there was a Auditor General in this remote area to present an overview of the year. The most painful issues in this year's review were the situation that happens when the European Union's support money starts to decrease. The review revealed that we do not really want to think about that time and are therefore not prepared well enough for that time. What about this in the area currently under discussion? R &amp; D money also comes, I do not know the exact percentage, but more than half of the European Union's structural funds. Does the government and the Estonian Research and Development Council have a plan that will happen then? Will the missing part be compensated for our own state budget money or what will happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U43	Thank you for that question. If I may, I quote the former member of the government, the current member of the Riigikogu. Why am I doing this? I don't want to put his words in my head. Sven Sester has said that he wants to work for it, he said this when he was in the office of the Minister of Finance, but I believe that he now wants it as a honourable member of the Riigikogu, so that Estonia will no longer receive any grant cents from the European Union, would not be a net beneficiary. It may seem odd. Why would you work for that? Should work in the opposite direction in order to receive more and more different forms of support. But of course I understand his philosophy, and I think it's very right. The more we can improve our living environment and move our economy forward, the less subsidies we really get. And if we don't get them at all, then our economic environment and our living environment will be very well off. So I agree with that objective. Is there a plan? The most long-term plan that the country has in monetary policy is its fiscal strategy. Is it accounted for? Yeah, it's accounted for. Now, let's get a little closer to the subject. The long-term plan is also a country's fiscal policy strategy, a country's economic policy strategy. Since politicians belong to different political parties, some say it's good, others say it's bad, and it's a debate about how it really is. For example, there is a debate as to whether or not differences should be allowed in the maritime sector in order to bring more ships under the Estonian flag. I think we have to allow differences. As far as the R &amp; D funding is concerned, it is important to start thinking about what to do in order to direct companies to contribute more to R &amp; D. I think there might be some differences on the table. Don't hit everyone with one hat and say it's easy and understandable. The aim is not simplicity and comprehension; it is important how much we can contribute to research and innovation. The substance of your question was that if European funding is reduced, will the percentage of R &amp; D go down? I don't think there's any way you can go down, it's less than 1%! My answer is that this is certainly not an area where the country should start cutting spending. On the contrary, I see that the glass of water in Estonia is half full, not half empty. The Estonian state is moving forward, Estonia's survival is improving, Estonia's economic position is improving, Estonia's incomes are increasing, and this, of course, gives impetus to the fact that we can increase the funding for research and development. I think there's a plan in that sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U44	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U45	Thank you, good Chairman. Prime Minister! I almost got my answer to both of my questions from your answer to Andres Ammas. But I had another question on my mind. Recently, entrepreneurs talk a great deal about the influx of working hands into Estonia. You note that, at the same time, they want to invest little in development. How can we still try to encourage businesses to invest more in innovation and research to tackle labour problems by making work more effective and not by bringing in work?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U46	Thank you. I wouldn't oppose these measures. There has been a strong signal from the business sector that there is a large shortage of labour in Estonia, and this is true. The relevant threshold or quota, whatever we call it, was filled at the end of the summer. Already at the beginning of the summer, it became clear that more people could not be employed. In fact, labour shortages are a major obstacle in a large number of business sectors, sectors of the economy. It's true. I think we need to consider one more thing. In a certain business sector, the total workforce is not used for 12 months, but for example four or six months. These are seasonal works and this area should be specifically mentioned. What are they arguing about now? I know that some economic specialists believe that, for example, the construction sector could be recognised as being seasonal and that these workers could be excluded from the quota. In my opinion, this is a very sensible idea which should be discussed further. The government will discuss whether or not to increase this quota no later than the beginning of next year. Now this second issue: automation, transition to new technologies. I went to a company in Imavere on Saturday morning, which has made very large investments across Estonia, not only in Estonia but also in Latvia and Lithuania. It's a big factory, you don't have to name names, and of course I asked how many people they have at work. And I was told this number how many people are there to make this factory work and, by the way, another energy venture in the southeast corner of Estonia would work. I was told that the company has made more and more automation and technology-enhancing investments, not hundreds of thousands but tens of millions of euros. And this is because to be competitive, also competitive on the world market, because it is a company that exports a great deal. I think that, on the one hand, the market regulates its contribution to innovation and technology. Anyone who does not loses very strongly in competitiveness. I'm sure entrepreneurs understand that very well. If you choose your direction, then it is most likely that whoever wants to play the game of export and sustainability in a good sense will in any case have to invest in innovation and technology. Really, Reverend Asker, in that sense, I do not contrast these directions. One direction is inbound labour from third countries and the other is investment in higher-level technology. I think both of them are needed in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U47	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The fact that R &amp; D is a little weakly linked to the challenges facing society and, on the other hand, as you yourself have said today, to entrepreneurship is correct in the analysis of R &amp; D. At the same time, efforts have been made to take certain steps by drawing up specific programmes. An example is a major programme such as the Estonian Research Infrastructure Roadmap, which seeks to open R &amp; D infrastructure to business. How successful would you have such an infrastructure road map, and how do you assess the objects built on it and their opening to business here in our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U49	Thank you. I remember a little less than a year ago when this R &amp; D review was here. I then had to prepare a report and attend both the Committee on Culture and this House. After all, this area has been on the table very strongly all along, it has been discussed to what extent and at the same time how R &amp; D is beginning to interact with real life with the so-called street image. Your question was how much I appreciate it. I think that, as we approach positively, there is much potential to bring more R &amp; D into our daily lives. Businesses, people and organisations must be convinced that if the public sector contributes to this, it will take a lot of time and time, but these and these things will happen either in medical technology or in any area that we actually encounter every day. How can you do that? It can't be done like the Prime Minister says we're gonna do this. It is clear that this is a tripartite cooperation that is public, let us say cooperation between the public sector, the private sector and universities and various institutes. The latter, in my opinion, dominate this cooperation. So bringing R &amp; D together with real life is, in any case, a job that has to be done all the time. This potential is quite substantial and needs to be exploited.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U50	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U51	Good Prime Minister! In your answers, you highlighted the tax distinctions quite a number of times. Would you be more specific about what you mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U52	How to motivate companies. If they contribute to R &amp; D, they will have a reduced tax burden. Whether it's just for a while, it'll have to be discussed. I cannot tell you here that this is a complete solution, and please do so. I understand that this sentence itself is already creating a political conflict. After all, the Reform Party says no distinctions can be made. At least it's been your position, I don't know what it's like right now. At the same time, there are parties who say that, in fact, we can motivate, support or at least test certain sectors with the help of differences, that maybe this solution will work. What I meant was that, by allowing for certain differences, the private sector is willing to contribute more to R &amp; D. It's on the one hand. On the other hand, I meant that the company should show that it has contributed to research and development, that it has given it some real tangible benefit. He should be willing to bring out these statistics. The state is asking you to let me know how much you're betting, and this isn't putting a little bird somewhere in Statistics, it's a pretty big job to figure out these sums. But the private sector is asking what our interest in producing this statistics is. I have to motivate entrepreneurs, so they are interested in it. The shipbuilding sector is quite well developed in Estonia; we cannot say that the shipbuilding sector is not involved in research and development. Yes, it is! But when I ask the owner or manager of this company how much you contribute to research and development, the members of the Riigikogu ask me this question, he says, "What? Where? No, we're not gonna record it. ' And if I ask why you don't sign it, he says that we should have some motivation for it. That's what I meant. There is no ready solution. If you're asking if we have this formula, I'll say no. I think it could be discussed, really discussed, seriously discussed. You could put aside a policy for a second and see if we can propose some, I don't know, formula or scheme or solution to motivate our private sector. It's very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U53	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Very dear Prime Minister! There may be a slight contradiction in what you're saying. Before you pointed out in your statements that R &amp; D would benefit the company. This raises the question of why it should still be motivated by tax differences when it is known that companies that invest in innovation will benefit workers at one point in the form of higher wages. But you promised, or at least you marked it in this Chamber in the autumn before the budget debate, that you would monitor the agreement between the Minister for Education and Science and the Minister for Rural Affairs on funding veterinary education at the University of Life Sciences. What's the result of that surveillance? I did not notice that this was positively reflected in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U55	I must admit that I have already begun to prepare this report for the honourable Riigikogu, and one thing I want to touch on in this speech is thanks to you, Mr Kruuse. I took up last year's notes on how I appeared here in front of you, and I saw that you were referring to your question at the time that I never mentioned a country university and a veterinary training that you were genuinely concerned about. How I am going to monitor this, I will certainly give you an overview when I come to the Riigikogu to give a speech about research and development. So I'm filling in the gap that I didn't touch that training at the University of Life Sciences at all. I will now try to bring this issue to the Riigikogu better.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U56	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U57	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Prime Minister! You rightly stated that the potential for cooperation between businesses and researchers is untapped and there are very many opportunities for development. Have you discussed this in the government in the coming months? If you have discussed what your initial tasks have been?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U58	Thank you. We last discussed research and development on 17 November when the TAN meeting was... Or, I'm sorry, we didn't discuss this on 17 November; the debate on research and development was on 14 November, three days earlier. Sorry I was wrong! But R &amp; D is under constant surveillance, seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U59	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U60	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You dealt with the tax distinctions of companies here. But has there been an opportunity in the government to introduce tax distinctions by region? We Southeasters are a little bit jealous that in Ida-Virumaa certain developments are supported by extra money. But South-East Estonia is also in a rather difficult situation; we also expect such tax distinctions and subsidies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U61	Thank you. I fully agree that South-East Estonia must not be left hanging, and that has certainly not been done by the government. Given the specific characteristics of these three counties, Põlva-, Võru- and Valgamaa-, it is clear that this is important. I recall the issue of administrative reform, for example, Setomaa, a culturally unique region. You asked if the tax distinctions in South-East Estonia have been discussed. We have not really discussed additional tax differences in any region in the government. I think if there were good friends here from Hiiumaa or Saaremaa, they might say they're sorry to say so, but Urve Tiidus from Saaremaa is looking at me from the hall! The fact that there is also a need for tax distinctions. I don't know what to say. But yes, there has not been such a debate. And if we also look at the political reality, I think that before 2019 there is little chance of finding a consensus in this XIII Riigikogu that regional tax distinctions will be introduced. You gave this example of Ida-Virumaa. However, while you have already opened up this issue, I think that the tax debate could be very seriously on the table before the elections. I believe that the main issue of these Riigikogu elections will be financial and fiscal issues, economic policy at all, as well as issues related to the living environment. This will be the backbone of the election debate very clearly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U62	Prime Minister, there are no further questions for you. Mr Kruuse now wants to take the floor, which is why I am giving the opportunity, because I am opening negotiations. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U63	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Actually, I'd like to make a small mark on the latest issues. To a good colleague from South Estonia, I can say that the tax distinctions already apply to the South Estonians. It takes a little effort to use them and drive to Latvia, but I think the government has done very well, and people are taking advantage of this opportunity. We don't know how this ends... I also became the reason for what honourable member of the Riigikogu Igor Gräzin said in his previous speech. I listened to him attentively, and one point I would certainly like to repeat to the Prime Minister is that, of course, we recognise the Spanish Constitution, but no one at the same time prohibits us from talking about freedom on the Internet and making a comment when we notice that the voice of the people is being shut down on the Internet. We can continue to respect the Spanish Constitution in this regard. You were very busy with this subject, and the answers to the following questions were very dynamic, but there was some subtext that ran through these answers that carried a certain emotional charge. Part of your answers, including what you gave to Anne Sulling, I think it was a certain arrogany. It would be good if this did not happen in the future, because all the members of the Riigikogu who are in this Chamber are to answer these questions. There must be no bad, pointless questions for any member of the government. That's probably all we have to take into account if one of us turns out to be a member of the government at one point and has to stand on this remote control, no matter how painful or difficult it is. When it comes to R &amp; D, indeed, the motivation of the company to provide statistics really depends on how easily and conveniently it is organised, not on how much tax refund is received for this one hand movement. No one prohibits us, although the law does not directly oblige us, to be a patriot of the Estonian state and to give back something to society if we are a successful entrepreneur. I really believe that very many companies are contributing to this. But I would be more careful about making tax distinctions in order for companies to contribute more to R &amp; D, innovation. Those operators who have found out how much they will get back when they contribute to it are obviously of no use for tax distinctions. Here, some parallels can be drawn with free public transport, where we forget the main goal of why we need one or the other step. People who are satisfied with the service and ready to pay for the service should not receive an additional gift in the form of a free ride. Rather, investment should be made in places where buses do not drive and there is no activity at all. The same is true, in my opinion, of innovation and research. At the same time, I would certainly like to support the Prime Minister, because it is certainly in the hands of the Prime Minister to promote the reasonableness and sense of this action. He will be able to address this issue at various meetings and convince companies to believe in it. This faith is difficult to come, I dare say, having met different entrepreneurs myself. So I very much hope that our main objective will not be forgotten, so the right decisions will come. Good luck! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U64	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U65	Mr President! Prime Minister! Good people's representatives! Prime Minister, I very much like one of your sentences: investment in science is not a luxury, but an obligation. And I really want to encourage you to follow that line I said. Our state budget for next year is prouder and more extensive than ever: over EUR 10 billion. And in the light of this ambitious sentence, I would like to encourage you, Prime Minister, to contribute not only to research and development, which will be added next year, and which will really contribute to the easier and certainly more innovative development of basic science in research institutions, but also to add another EUR 10 million so that we can move forward from the current research and development basis. We have excellent science, we have great opportunities to participate in science all over the world. I am thinking here of our IT field, materials technology, nanotechnology, medical science as well, and many other branches. But as a small nation, we must never forget that our top science needs a solid foundation, that we need horizontal diversity, where, for example, soil science, where timber constructions are further dealt with, boat building, is also a science at stake. But this responsibility and responsibility should be assumed by the state. The Estonian education and research system has always been able to maintain courage and ambition, and so can you now. Secondly, bureaucracy should be boldly reduced in science. The question cannot be whether every 10 cent or 1 euro has been used correctly. We have allowed a huge army of bureaucracy to be built in science. One controls one thing, the other controls the other, the third controls the previous controllers. It's a stupid waste, and it actually eats power in science. Not to mention it takes a scientist time. And there's never time in science. The idea is important, not that some euros have not been written exactly in the budget previously planned. It is all right if these euros are used for the same idea, but perhaps in another area. As a country, we have the necessary measures and tools to really boost cooperation with business. We have a road map of the infrastructures of research institutions, i.e. all kinds of laboratory equipment. Let us analyze it and update it. The new Roadmap for 2018 should give us the opportunity to deepen this cooperation, which society very much needs. We must never forget the sciences of national culture. If Estonia has a place in world culture in the form of science, then Estonia also has a place in world culture in the form of science! Then we have this one branch to ourselves. The parts of this branch are Estonian soils and Estonian butterflies and Estonian worms, as well as Estonian language. Maintaining this branch is no one's concern but the concern of the Estonian state. And to this end, all this diversity of R &amp; D, as well as the excellent skills, knowledge and capabilities it brings, need to be further developed not only at the level that we maintain stability. We must courageously take on major tasks. The Estonian scientific community is capable of carrying out these major tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U66	On behalf of the heirs, Igor Gräzin, please! [[Someone's laughing in the hall.]] There's still a long night ahead, so it's worth stretching a little bit, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U67	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Let's do it in five minutes. In short, there is a difference between science and science. And that is reflected, among other things, in the way science functions. The famous Thomas Kuhn book 'The structure of the scientific revolutions', paradigms etc.' it all is. At the same time, a distinction must be made between, for example, physics, chemistry and, on the other hand, economics, philosophy, etc. on the basis of what the mechanism is, how it works. As far as physics is concerned, there they stare at something and then something explodes, and then everything is described as a scientific achievement. When they look at whether something stinks or not, it's chemistry. And just like Murphy said, when something is green and wiggles, it's biology. But what's important is that things happen outside of us, they're written down, they're debated and discussed, and that's how science goes on. However, there is another block. These are humanities, of which I would specifically mention such sciences as economics, law, semiotics and philology. When we talk about physics, it is not hard to understand that one accelerator can be made on the gang, for example, in CERN, Switzerland. Indeed, the countries are putting together money and we are getting a supercollar with which we are able to carry out major experiments. Mankind's putting together money and we're sending missiles to Mars and anywhere. You don't have to be in your chemical labs, your experimental fields, etc. everywhere. Doesn't have to, it's really possible to do this together! But I am saying that Estonian economics will end at the moment we have only one Faculty of Economics. We have already gone down the road that it has been said that there should be a law school in Estonia. We are beginning to say that the whole philosophy could be concentrated in a single research institution. I would like to remind you that the essence of philosophy is the discussion between different people. This means that philosophy must be present in Estonia in at least two or three places. We are now talking about three completely different and hostile economic theoretic concepts in Estonia, one of which is then at the University of Tartu, the other is at the EBS and the third is at the University of Tallinn. There are already enthusiasts who say that in three places there is no need to teach economics. But if we centralize social sciences in one place, we'll get an institution where only one theoretical doctrine is represented, and everything else will be taught in the light of this one doctrine. There's no one to argue with! This statement that Estonian economics could be one science does not go. So where would we be discussing? Kennedy School of Economics? This perspective is bullshit, because Kennedy School of Economics will never deal with the Estonian economy and kroon, for example. It can treat Estonian macroeconomics as microeconomics of an American company from the point of view of profits and losses, not macroeconomic indicators. In other words, if we want to have language science, ethnography, history, economics, law in Estonia, all these subjects must be taught in at least two places, but it is even better than in three places. And the worse they get along, the better. Because science is not passed on by humble consent. Science is carried forward by this little snot, who, as it turns out later, is a genius and who dares to say something and who we do not kill, just as we often kill young teachers and young politicians. We all become polite, etc., but the consequence is that our consciousness, our national scientific consciousness, has disappeared. That is why I call: please, gentlemen, do not unite humanities into one humanitarian centre. As soon as the discussion ends, the humanities end, the humanities end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U68	Prime Minister, you will still have the opportunity to speak after you have finished your inquiries, and that is what you would like to do, as you are now in the role of the addressee of the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U69	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! I really humbly asked for another word because I wanted to say a few things. First of all, thank you very much to the inquisitors for raising this subject! I also want to say thank you to Krista Aru. And as I said to Mr Kruus, I remember how he raised his concern about the University of Earth when the R &amp; D overview was on the agenda last time. I also remember very clearly that there was talk about the national sciences, and I would also like to pay attention to them in the end of this year. But in fact, I was brought to this chair by the subject of Mr Kruus' speech. I would like to confirm that I agree with you that there is no place here in the Riigikogu's chair of speech. On the contrary, as a member of our government, I have always taken the Riigikogu as a partner in a good way; I have always come here, to say it in plain language, happily fucking. A member of the government always wishes to come to the Riigikogu, listen to your thoughts, your views, your opinions, but also to debate at political level. So I want to overconfirm: the attitude of the government is very respectful and it must characterise all members of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U70	Dear Riigikogu, I consider the second question to be closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U71	Third question: An inquiry by Riigikogu members Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsep, Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõmme, Artur Talvik, Ain Lutsep and Jüri Adams about corruption in local governments and elsewhere. It's number 387. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U72	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! I don't think that's an arrogance, but a bit of an attitude like this has been felt since we've been discussing corruption in briefings lately. Every time I bring it up, you say I want to make the Centre Party better. And once you've invited me to join the Central Party. I think that this is not a subject and, in the case of this inquiry, would put it off at the outset, that we both are responsible for ensuring that corruption is as low as possible in the Republic of Estonia and that all the measures we are trying to avoid it are effective and effective. As for the fact that corruption has often been associated with the members of the Central Party, as we express in our inquiry, these are the stables of your Augeias. We can only help to raise awareness and raise these issues. It has also been pointed out in this inquiry that in Estonia's largest municipalities, both in Tallinn and Tartu, the assistant mayors and mayor Savisaar have been very busy with the accusations of corruption. These things have come to the investigative bodies and to the court. And even if there is no judicial solution yet, they very clearly cast a bad shadow on the functioning of the local government and on our overall political culture. Seeing Mr. Stalnukhin walk into the hall and approaching, I recall that things are even more strange in Narva. In Narva, there are people who have been candidates for elections on the list of the Centre Party, who have been convicted of corruption, and some of them have even proved elected. This problem is latent there and I would say, probably much worse than in other Estonian municipalities. But I don't just want to stay on that surface. Still, this question is largely motivated by the desire to define what we are doing to prevent such bad situations. One starting point is certainly the audit by the National Audit Office, which was completed in June this year and which has indicated that neither the current government nor its predecessors have been able to solve two problems that have been up for a long time. Firstly, the guidance material for risk assessment and internal control would be useful. The audit of the National Audit Office reveals that the anti-corruption law in general cannot be observed in local governments. It is not necessarily malicious; it is also a lack of legal literacy and sometimes stupidity. And two: for a long time now, it is expected that an "e-tool" will be completed, enabling the continuous monitoring of transactions, money movements, made by local government and its sub-offices, on the Internet. This review should be accessible to all, as it would probably ensure the most effective public scrutiny. By the way, last week, with his written presentation, the honourable Chancellor of Justice raised the same problem for the Riigikogu. Those questions are black in white here. We hope for meaningful answers and a meaningful debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U73	The questions must be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U74	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! In replying to this question in one sentence, I assure you that corruption has no place in the public sector. By adding another to this first sentence, I would say that we must all make an effort to achieve this. But if you respond further to your questioning, unfortunately, there is corruption in the public sector. Of course, it must be resisted and pointed out. I hope that there will be more and more people in the Estonian public sector who say that we are not dealing with a matter called corruption. The first question: 'What steps are the Government of the Republic planning to ensure better compliance with the anti-corruption law, transparency of the work of local authorities and public authorities and the effectiveness of their internal control? 'The Government of the Republic is guided by the tasks set out in the Anti-Corruption Strategy in the pursuit of better compliance with anti-corruption law. The main actions are to raise people's awareness of corruption and to shape attitudes, especially in the public sector, to ensure greater transparency in public sector decisions and activities, to support a culture of prevention of corruption, to increase transparency in grant decisions and public procurement, as well as to develop the research capacity of research institutions and to increase the analytical capacity needed to investigate corruption crimes. Several experts in corruption investigations and the recent audit of the National Audit Office that you have referred to have pointed out that it is primarily the awareness raising of officials and awareness of the risk of corruption that needs to be addressed in order to prevent the occurrence of corruption. In order to meet these objectives, the implementation plan for the strategy drawn up by the Ministry of Justice for the period 2015 to 2020 provides for a series of concrete steps and measures. Examples of activities aimed at avoiding conflicts of interest, such as the production of information materials, mentoring, training and subsequent analysis, the establishment of an internal control system for local authorities, the disclosure of local government transactions by legal entities governed by private law, and the launch and deployment of a detailed planning information system integrated with national information systems in local government. So there's a lot of different activities. I mentioned only a few of the most important things, because it is simply not possible to read all the steps here. It must be made clear that in the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy, the Ministry of Justice, the founder of the strategy, cooperates continuously with other ministries and state agencies, including the Police and Border Guard Board and the National Audit Office, as well as with local authorities, training local government officials and advising them on corruption prevention issues. The second question: 'What stage of development is ensuring full transparency of the transactions of local governments and their agencies on the website of Public Money? ' The public money page developed by the Ministry of Finance contains data on the accounts of entities belonging to the general government, i.e. not only the local government units. The solution is available and usable, but it still has the potential for development so that the benefits of the solution are greater. In particular, it should allow for greater cross-use of data. The reasons why this potential has not yet been used relate to the organisation of the financing of national databases. The deadline for the implementation of the website application developed by the Ministry of Finance is 2018 in the Anti-Corruption Strategy Implementation Plan. Preparation and search for solutions are underway. The current situation is that by the end of next year the application should be completed for local governments. Moreover, with the approval of the Minister of Justice, it has been decided to provide Opener with a database created outside the government for the prevention of corruption, for a limited period of time. Opener is a user-friendly environment, but there is not as much data as on the public money website. Question 3: "How do you assess, from the point of view of corruption prevention, the awareness of corruption among top political leaders at local level (mayors and parish elders, deputy mayors and parish government members)? What is the background check of politically appointed local government leaders to minimise the risks of corruption? Does this control even work, who does it and how? " Awareness of corruption and the risks of corruption is indeed also a problem in the public sector. In this respect, I agree with this question, in any case. This is confirmed, for example, by the 2017 Corruption Survey. I will bring an extract: in a hypothetical situation, 7% of officials do not consider corruption when a procurement officer orders computers to the institution from a company whose partner is his son. It is a good thing that, for example, in 2010, there were 10% of officials, now 7%. At the same time, the public sector is more aware of corruption than the private sector. In a fictional situation, just over a quarter of the population, about a quarter of businesses and only 5% of officials would be prepared to act corruptly. The leaders of the Corruption Bureau of the Central Criminal Police have recently stated that, unfortunately, the risks of corruption in rural municipalities or city authorities are not well assessed and that if the rural municipality elders and mayors themselves highlight the problem, the situation would be better. The role model effect would be created. According to the Local Government Organisation Act, the local government councils elected in free elections choose local government councils, under the conditions and in accordance with the terms and procedures laid down in the Act and the basic decree of the municipality or city for up to four years. So we are going to get back to the need to shape attitudes and raise awareness of corruption issues across society. Fourth, the final question: 'The Public Service Act precludes the employment of a person who has been convicted of a criminal offence committed intentionally (§ 15 (1)). How will this restriction be fulfilled and controlled, and whether the recruitment of Alar Nääme to the Sõle Sports Centre is legitimate? ' Sõle Sports Centre is a branch of Kristiine Sport, a branch of the Tallinn Sports and Youth Board. The Agency carries out the tasks assigned to it by the state and Tallinn legislation, guided by the state and Tallinn legislation and the statute in its activities. The Agency is required to report to the City Government, which directs and coordinates its activities and supervises it in the service provided by law. There is no reason to believe that local governments do not comply with the restrictions laid down unambiguously in the laws adopted by the Riigikogu. So much is known to me, however, that the development manager of the Sõle fitness centre, Alar Nääme, is not an official and does not exercise public authority. Question 5: 'According to § 127 of the Political Party Act, political parties receive support from the state budget. The amount of this subsidy is decided on by the state budget and has been EUR 5.4 million in recent years. However, the requirements for the use of funds have not been specified. The vast majority of this money is spent on election advertising, sometimes paying off debts and other debts caused by former party leaders. What is the position of the Government of the Republic of Estonia on whether the use of this money should be more clearly targeted in order to ensure that training, including anti-corruption training, is carried out in political parties? ' The government, in the coalition agreement of the three parties on which it is based, has expressed its will to increase transparency and to strengthen the monitoring of political party funding. The aim is that the funding of political parties not only seems legally correct, but also in practice. The Minister of Justice will shape his position on these proposals in the near future. Yes, according to the law of the parties still in force, one legal source of funding for parties represented in the Riigikogu is a provision from the state budget intended to meet the objectives of the parties. These objectives are the expression of the political interests of members and supporters and the exercise of state and local government. The law does not define specific purposes. However, political parties are obliged to indicate expenditure in their reports under three headings: costs of political action, labour costs and management costs. In addition, the costs of political action must be even more detailed, showing the costs under different subdivisions. Indeed, all political parties could consider whether, for example, the costs of political action should be allocated resources to increase the awareness of corruption among members of the political party and to shape attitudes, why not also carry out relevant studies. As far as possible amendments to party law are concerned, this would certainly require a broader political agreement. I consider it very important that this agreement also be concluded between opposition and coalition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U75	The round of questions will be opened by Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Honored Prime Minister! Here's a big question, the nature of which maybe comes out of your assurance that the recruitment of Alar Nääme was probably legitimate. Yet, it has staggered the public's sense of justice. My constituents wanted me to raise the issue of the resignation and compensation of the leaders of the city of Tallinn in this question. The former mayor, who has been removed from office by the law enforcement authorities, will receive compensation; the mayor, who will continue after the elections, will receive compensation; the deputy mayor, who will continue as Chairman of the Council, will receive compensation. Do you agree with the view that this is also political corruption? Very many people see it that way, and I think that this position is also justified. If the minister comes back from the ministry to the Riigikogu, he will not receive such compensation. Or do you think it's the right thing to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U77	Thank you. As far as I am aware, it really is not a practice that ministers are being compensated for this. Point one. In Tallinn City Council, it has been more customary for people who have left the city government to receive compensation or support for the work they have done, according to the council's decision. I assure you that there must certainly not be corruption in such allocations either. You used the word pair 'political corruption'. But if we follow the Constitution, it is the free will of local governments, it is the decision of the councils whether they consider it right or they do not consider it right. In Tallinn, such grants have been paid to former city leaders in the past; this has been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U78	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U79	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Prime Minister! You are the Prime Minister and the Chairman of the party, and it is certainly important for you to have a uniform understanding of the Estonian legal space and laws. But why are there so many cases of corruption in one party? I don't mean to argue that there are no other parties, but the Centre Party has somehow excelled. Why, as Prime Minister and also chairman of a party, have you promised to reward such people for new jobs, for new benefits and I don't know what else? Is this recognition for the work done, or is it still happening?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U80	At the moment, the Riigikogu sits here and answers to questions. I'll answer the question to the members of the Free Party, but you didn't ask what was going on here. You didn't ask a rhetorical question, you're asking what you asked before. In the case of claims such as those you have now put forward, very specific examples should be given or specific persons should be mentioned. There is no room for corruption in the Centre Party. We have worked as hard as we have, with this board, which was elected on 5 November 2016, to solve a number of legal problems and also to bear sanctions and financial responsibility. The truth is that in some cases we have had to do so by paying very large sums of money. Of course, it is our desire to finally put these disputes behind us and, in my opinion, the party has moved in the very right direction. This has also been one of the reasons why the Centre Party has sold its former office building. It's like you're saying that there's someone in the Centre Party who's been promoted under my command because he's been convicted of corruption. I'm sorry, that's a very strong statement. In that case, you should also say who the person I have promoted who has been convicted of corruption is. I don't think it's nice to say such sentences, you shouldn't do that. But your focus on the Centre Party is that we should improve ourselves. Of course, there is a way to change, we know that, and that is the way we are going. I think that we are taking a pretty strong step there to get out of these disputes, and I hope that there will be no such disputes and action in the future that has caused them. In Estonian it is said that the surface in the other eye we always see, but the log in our own eye is sometimes not. I say to my party, the chairman of which I am, that we are working every day to ensure that such matters are no longer on the agenda in our party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U81	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U82	Mr. Prime Minister! You asked for examples. In my opinion, the example of Alar Nääme is instructive in two respects. First of all, there is a phenomenon that has been called 'joke' in Estonia, or legally everything is correct. Therefore, everything must be fine if everything is legally correct. However, the Chancellor of Justice recently presented a series of proposals that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has discussed. Basically, we are talking about born in local governments. The Chancellor of Justice had quite a lot of examples of what might be called the circular defence of corruption. These are examples of people who have lost their jobs because of corruption offences being re-elected until the person who has served the sentence in prison is taken back on the local government bread. I mean, that's supposed to sound like a mockery of justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U83	Thank you. I don't know if it was a line or a question, but honestly, it's not like the Prime Minister is hiring sports centers, I don't know, builders or coaches. This is not the case in Estonia at least at present. It is true that it must be fair and appear fair, and that is what I fully support.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U84	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U85	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! Do you have any good suggestions in a situation where the local government should support its entrepreneurs, but the competition is won by a larger company located in Tallinn, for example, and the local government does not have the opportunity to support its entrepreneurs so that they can develop and offer work on the ground? Often, the great from far away wins. Do you have any good advice or are you gonna keep it that way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U86	Our public procurement competitions are public. If you ask for a good recommendation, I think it ties quite well with the research and development that was the subject of the previous inquiry. The more we can invest in innovation, the more we can ensure that the firm's fixed costs are lower. And as a result, the company will certainly be more competitive than the market offers. This is, I think, the company's opportunity to develop and be competitive. Perhaps the idea behind your question was whether we could have a place in local governments for protectionism in some sense and apply the principle of proximity. However, we do have the principle of public procurement. It is based on who makes the best offer, and the very important factor in this offer is, of course, the price. However, in my opinion, it is often the case that when a larger company wins, an on-site company can become a subcontractor so that it can still implement its own machinery fleet, its own knowledge, its own people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U87	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U88	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! The subject we are talking about is crucial. In this sense, I very much liked your answer that this issue must not be lax and we must be very precise, very correct when assessing corruption on both sides. My question is divided into two parts. It has already been mentioned in this Chamber. One issue is the recognition of local government leaders who have completed their work. For administrative reform carried out throughout Estonia, the law has been passed in this very hall. This administrative reform law provides that local government leaders who go back to work or stay in work receive a bonus for their work. I don't think it can be considered corruption, because that's what we've legitimized. Yet, this does not seem right for many people. How do you rate it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U89	As I said, I respect the autonomy of local governments very much. I am in favour of the view that once we have elected councils, they have the right to make these decisions. Whether we reward someone or not, what is the salary of the head of one or another or the head of the third local government, I am very confident that a very large majority of Estonian municipalities are doing their job with a heart, seriously, devoted and enthusiasm. Unfortunately, corruption is in many places. We see it in local governments, but we also see it in public administrations and in very different organisations. But I repeat what I began to answer this question: corruption has no place in the public sector. And I added another sentence: we all have to deal with the fight against corruption. And I really do.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U90	Arthur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U91	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! At national level, the manning of the boards and other managements of state companies and public authorities has been taken very seriously in such a way that party membership is not taken into account. This is one of the ways to avoid political corruption, so that people do not get into management from 'party services', but thanks to greater competence. In Tallinn, however, it can be seen that the manning of municipal companies and municipal institutions continues on the basis of party membership, not so much on the basis of competence. Is there plans to change this approach in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U92	Thank you. I do not know if I should begin the answer with the words'very respected Tallinn City Council'. I cannot say this because this is the Chair of the Riigikogu, the most important chair in this country. Honourable Riigikogu, I think the government coalition made the right decision when it decided to set up this so-called "nomination committee." But what I want to say is that a party ticket must not be an obstacle if someone is to be appointed to a national council, but it must not be a prerequisite for this designation either. It is true that the Nomination Committee has done its work very well. He is based on what you called it: he is primarily based on competence, on how competent a woman or a man is in a particular field. In my opinion, this should also be the case in local governments. I really think so. I understand where this attack is coming from again, but the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia does not say to put this person in that council and that person in that council. That's not how it works. So in any case, I think that competence has to be, be it the council of a local or public undertaking. In any case, competence should be the main keyword.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U93	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the time being, there are no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Since we have such a custom that, first, those who have made a specific inquiry will be given the floor, Jüri Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U94	Mr President, it would not have been necessary for me to be the first to speak here now. Mr Stalnukhin has probably been waiting a long time, and it wouldn't have been bad if he could have canceled his words. But I want to draw attention to some of the problems that we should be aware of or at least not to pretend they are not there. It's been a while, but it's taken some time to become aware of them. First of all, what is the concept of corruption? When we talk about it here, we talk about it in the broadest possible sense. We can't talk about it like we're defining it in a very narrow way. In the 1990s, for example, certain lawyers had the understanding that corruption can only be spoken of in cases where it is illegal or unjustified economic gain, namely for that corrupt person himself. If there were cases where there was no benefit, then it wasn't corruption, or if it was someone else, it wasn't. I don't know, it's kind of hard to talk about political corruption. My own experience in this field is that once, when I was not a member of the Riigikogu, I organized a club event, and at the start of this club event there were very many participants who served at various places in Tallinn City Government and belonged to very different political parties. When I finished this matter three to four years later, there were no other people on my list who would have belonged to another party, not to the Centre Party. There were some people who were still part of their old party, but they were no longer serving the city of Tallinn. This is not, frankly, a formal corruption phenomenon, but I think we should talk about this too. Now maybe the most important thing we should understand. One miracle of reporting or statistics was born in Estonia. What's that about? Corruption itself is not the main thing that is being measured around the world. It can also be measured, but it is methodically very difficult. That's how you measure your sense of corruption. There is a CPI or corruption perception index. Estonia has dealt with an incredible hat trick, for which there is no explanation how this is possible. According to this index, there has been a decline in the perception of corruption in Estonia over 25 years. This is the case in the international report, while we have increasingly developed corruption facts in the country and the perception of the domestic one has been different. How is that possible, I don't know. Maybe some future detective can figure out what's been behind this phenomenon. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U95	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U96	A little bit of other terms. There are theoretically three different types of corruption. One is political corruption, or corruption in politics. Under it are classically meant, for example, when political decisions are made in exchange for a favor or for money. These things have certainly been in Estonia, but this is not the central topic of corruption in Estonia. We mainly have the issue of official corruption on the agenda. And the third area is corruption in the private economy. There is, too, but it has been dealt with less. So if there was a pair of words going through here before 'political corruption', it was a little bit broader than the American definition. With regard to our areas of corruption, it can now be said that corruption among officials in the central government of the country is remarkably smaller than among local government officials. However, corruption among local government officials does not exhaust what we call corruption in local governments, because officials are formally not concerned, for example, with phenomena such as the creation of friendly private clubs for the "dominant party." These are informal clubs that, with their donations, maintain a certain party on the ground. It's basically corruption, too, but it doesn't go under the corruption of officials. The last point I want to draw attention to is that the expression 'combating corruption' is the same in all the most important Western European languages and has been translated directly from there into Estonian. The use of this expression has caused great confusion and it is not the fault of the Estonian language. Indeed, corruption, as a phenomenon, is not something that can be combated. There's no front line here, you can't say that somewhere on the other side of the front line are the bad guys you have to fight against, and there's some good guys out there fighting. There are two important methods of dealing with corruption and both have been used. One method is that every effort is being made in the country to prevent corruption. This is a method of preventing corruption, which was also included in the first version of the Corruption Act. About 2003, when Res Publica won a major election victory, another doctrine was introduced: let corruption work as it does, while our law enforcement authorities subsequently discover and punish. I think it has been a major accident in Estonia, but it also needs to be dealt with. But the main reason for reaching the current situation is certainly that, in the meantime, there has been no prevention for almost 15 years. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is now thinking, among other things, about how to create one of the drafts requested by the Chancellor of Justice and whose main problem is how to prevent corruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U97	Mikhail Stalnukhin! Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U98	Thank you. Eight minutes isn't enough, either, but let's get started. A few years ago, the president said that corruption was rampant in local governments. I decided to check it out. I picked up the Annual Journals of the Ministry of Justice, and it's pretty well accounted for. Took me three years before. On average, about 170 cases of corruption were reported per year, of which 16 to 18% were reported by local authorities and 48 to 51% by public authorities over a three-year period. As we are constantly talking about Narva, I gave the task of checking through the court register how many truly proven corruption cases are Narva cases. It turned out to be less than 1%. But I'll come back to that. The question now is that if we live in a democratic country and if we live by the law in our lives, who has the right to say about one person or another that he is a corruptant, that this is a corruption case. In my opinion, this right is limited to the Estonian court. If that is the case, I do not understand the demagoguery that has been heard here from both the remote and the locations. You can talk about supposed corruption, you can talk about any corruption, but you have no right to be baptized as corruption. It just isn't! There are currently three people in this Chamber who have listened with me to several of the National Audit Office's reports. I would remind the people who were in the previous composition that I raised three questions about objects built without a building permit. Among them was a four-storey street built in Harju County with three stairwells built in the devil knows what. Can I just say that if this house was built without a building permit and its apartments were sold and people went to live there without a permit, then it is corruption? You could, but I can't do that because I'm not sure about it because there is no judgment. Another case that came to us through the report of the National Audit Office: how the Government of the Republic allocated a total of 102 million to Estonian Air. Who paid attention to that? How many times was this said in this Chamber, and with what result? In fact, it happened as the Auditor General told us: the head of this institution came in, drew something on paper, the cabinet of ministers had no documents, they did not have a draft on it in advance, but they allocated this huge amount of money that subsequently burned away. Henn, you remember that! One funny example of how European money is used. A businessman with two very old ships managed to push them under the Ministry of the Environment. He got a million euros for them, and then the same Ministry of the Environment gave him permission to buy a new ship. I mean, in the end, instead of two old slobs, a man had a brand-new ship plus a million euros. This is something that has been said immensely here. But what's the point? What's the point of the National Audit Office? What's the point of me talking here, if nobody cares? That's one. I call political corruption, above all, that there is no attention to very specific cases, that they are not wanted to see them. Why touch them could be unpleasant! But you can open your mouth any time you want to talk about Narva. I don't want to offend anyone, and I won't even be offended if you, Herkel, call Narva a city of latent corruption. I hope you're not offended, either, if I'm explaining the same thing, I'm gonna call you latent, for example, what? - pedophile. Do you like it? But it could be. [[Summing in the hall. Someone's commenting.]] Stop it! You're insulting 59000 people, that's how! Latent corruption! You don't like being insulted. (It is said: 'Here is the difference... But try, you will have the opportunity to speak from here! Corruption is what it is. Yes, its level in Estonia is one of the lowest in the European Union. But what's interfering with zeroing it out? Our legislation. We'll take the procurement procedure. I've been on the Procurement Committee for several years. It's always the price that counts. No one dares to accept any proposals that are above the minimum price. Nobody! 'Cause right after that, there's a statement going to the popos, one to the economic police, and the other to the court. We do not have a system that would allow us to choose a really useful offer so that it does not create problems for those who do this work. And the procurement moves forward and forth. Some hang upstairs for years until they're finally one. People who work in local governments know that this is true. What made corruption so popular? There's nothing to do. No need to think. I don't care who it is. There's no need for a reason! You have heard something, and for you, one third city of Estonia is a city of latent corruption. Is that right? And you think we're going to swallow it. I won't! Understand, after all, that insults do not fight corruption! Legislation needs to be addressed. It is important to think about what measures can either force or convince people that some or other transactions are illegal, unacceptable. I only came here to hear if I really did again. And it was again! We've had five of these cases in the last seven years. Five of about 800 or 900! Leave Narva alone for once! When I'm talking about the problem of Ida-Viru, I mean, Ida-Viru is just a black myth. You're doing it! You're doing it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U99	Andres Herkel, you have the right to reply. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U100	Thank you, Mr President. I do not want a reply, I would like an explanation as to why the President did not intervene, hearing Mr Stalnuchin's way of expressing himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U101	I was going to do this now, before the next speech. Let us try to keep separate from the general one! Please, Mr. Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U102	Does it specifically concern Herkel, that there is nothing to be said about him, or is it also about other subjects and objects? Is it possible to blame here in the Riigikogu Hall, stamp one whole city, one big and beautiful city with nice people, so no comments can be received? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U103	My reply was based specifically on the logic of the speeches you represented, not in general. Individual and general problems are extremely important from philosophy to any subject, but Narva was currently being discussed and my rejoinder was specifically for one person. I mean it. I do not want to repeat the words that have been said about Andres Herkel, and which is undoubtedly not a good tone in this Chamber. Please, Helmut Hallemaa!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U104	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I'm not actually asking by accident. For the second time, I will ask the Prime Minister about the same subject in the course of an inquiry or Question Time. Corruption is a very serious issue. Corruption is a serious issue in the public sector at national level, in the public sector at local government level and in the private sector. In fact, it also exists in the private sector. Here, no matter how, we'll ruin the important thing ourselves if we're torn apart. There was a lot of talk about this during these very last elections, and it was as if the people didn't understand, but I'm afraid that's why they don't understand. I asked about the municipalities. In fact, the National Audit Office did the right thing: it appreciated that not all the rules were followed, and we finally understood where this assessment came from. But it was taken around this way that 2/3 of the local governments in Estonia have been corrupted. You shouldn't do things like that. Similarly, I do not believe that such large generalisations must be made, whether they are Narva or a region of southern Estonia. There is also a very important difference between the question of whether there is a conflict of interest. I agree with Küllik on that. He has, for some reason, addressed criticism to one political party, but I think that both the Free Party, the Centre Party and all these six political parties and many politicians at different levels need training so that there is no unintentional confusion on the face of conflicts of interest. It's perfectly natural. I myself have not been wrong in this sense, but I have been in a situation where I have withdrawn from the board or stopped my activities there. These things are being dealt with in the judicial system for some reason for a very long time. And here's the situation: how is it? I've justifiably stopped all my things, but I haven't made a decision, and it's as if formally I've broken something. These things are very important. And one more thing is bad, that he now comes in this way in the example of one person, but in fact, there must also be the opportunity to work for people who have been wrong and who have been told through court that they have been wrong. They must not work in public sector positions for officials or other servants, but they must work somewhere. I don't think such things should be confused. It's very important. As my good colleague, Jüri Adams, has said, indeed, this topic package is on the table in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and it is very important that we deal with this very seriously by all the political parties represented here. One of the issues we raised today in the Commission was the question, which the Ministry of Justice said, in fact, that it is simply not possible to approach it. It is the same question who can work in what place. I really enjoyed, Jüri, that you have the example of Finland at hand, and I hope you will bring it, but we could also know examples from other countries about these positions. I wouldn't really say that a council can't be a person who's a project manager for some kind of agency. This isn't the place to be responsible, he's got a bunch of bosses. In fact, it should make a very clear distinction between the places we are dealing with. This ban must not become trivial, so we practically rule out all people in councils and create a new decoy party at local level: the right to stand as a candidate cannot be taken away from anyone, but they cannot work on the council immediately. The system must be absolutely clear, it must not be possible to interpret things in two ways. It must be known that these and these places are such that there really must be neither a council nor a municipality in any other capacity. I think this is a subject where it should be extremely precise. And it must also be very precise when assessing whether Narva, Viljandi, Tallinn or any place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U105	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U106	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! I already thought that Mr Adams's speech was enough to bring this matter together, but it does not seem to be the case. The concept of political corruption undoubtedly extends corruption to those areas which are not directly linked to any judgments, to any convictions. Indeed, it expands and it is clearly there. When it comes to issues that could still be linked to political corruption, one of them is certainly funding political parties, taking money from the state to restore its political power to ever more expensive campaigns. One question that I was asked to raise in the course of this inquiry is how roofing money is used. There is a huge opportunity for political corruption. As far as this example of Narva is concerned, no one will doubtless think that the inhabitants of this city are suffering from latent corruption. This proved to be the case for the central party power of this city. I am aware that the Prime Minister was actually not very happy about the situation where people convicted of corruption decided to apply on the list of the Centre Party, but they did. They were elected to the council, followed by some things that are very serious, very alarming. In fact, as the only local government council in Estonia, council committees were formed in Narva in such a way that the representatives of the opposition were not appointed. Several opposition council members were simply not appointed to the council committees. I don't know what to call it. Is it corruption, is it political illiteracy, is it an absolutely different political culture that I cannot comprehend? Obviously, this goes against Estonian law, but it was done. And it has to be called something, Mr. Stalnukhin. As far as the answers on Tallinn are concerned, which the Prime Minister has given here, no that the appointment of any compensations and the appointment of officials in Tallinn are not relevant to him, it is, in a sense, relevant when it comes to the Centre Party. And this reasoning is not very credible to me after Aivar Riisalu said with a "child's mouth" that it was you, Mr. Ratas, who proposed to him to become a deputy mayor of Tallinn. Therefore, you are still coordinating Tallinn's affairs with a wide range of arches. I will also say two words about the fact that today, in the Special Committee against Corruption, there were also representatives of the city of Tartu, unfortunately, not the mayor, but the city secretary, Mr Mölder, and the head of internal control, Mr Bachmann. What can be done differently so that such things do not happen? First of all, it seems to me how quickly to mark the importance of training to control corruption. Training should be aimed at officials, but certainly also at politicians and council members. By the way, they expressed a very clear awareness that the rules of lobbying have been established in the Estonian Riigikogu. I had to grieve them because it was the commission that developed these rules in the leadership of Artur Talvik, but in fact it would be necessary for the board of the honourable Riigikogu to approve them for all of us. But it also turned out that the rules of lobbying, especially in the large municipality, where it is about allocating financial support for different purposes, are necessary, because some people tend to confuse things and maybe with power someone goes to thank with a cognac bottle. Sometimes it is difficult to draw a line between such a gift and corruption, and that is why these things must be regulated. Finally, the teeth of audit committees, their ability to work, their political will, the involvement of experts, the powers of experts, all this is also a major problem and this work can be promoted primarily by the opposition councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U107	Well, Hatter, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U108	I would like to ask for a statement on the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U109	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U110	Thank you. I consider our inquiry to be a conscious awareness that there are problems in our society. And this problem is certainly not linked to just one municipality, one political party. Through the media, we have addressed this issue in the context of members of different political parties. And that is why, as one of my fellow Members has already pointed out here, we really need to be aware of whether we have allocated enough resources to deal with legislation. Do we have enough resources to identify cases and, above all, to deal with them? It takes a very long time to deal with the case-law. Do we have enough resources for prevention? After all, today we recognise that there are large-scale shortcomings on these issues. After all, the fact that we talk about various doubts in society is a warning to all of us. We need to eradicate these issues, or rather this problem. We must not put our heads in the sand and say that since the court has not made a decision, we cannot talk about it. On the contrary! Then we must talk so that these doubts do not increase. We must be aware of all this in our society. The problem is not solved by any comment that accuses anyone of a crime against humanity. On the contrary, it wants to ridicule this issue, but we, as a society, must not allow this to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U111	Henn Põllaas, is there also a speech on the subject? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U112	Thank you. This is a very serious issue and it is very good that it has been highlighted. But actually, we have to look at ourselves in this hall. Not the people who voted in favour of the disclosure of the VEB Fund's material, but the majority who opposed it. What was it that happened at the VEB Foundation? Was it fraud, was it theft, was it corruption, abuse of office, the activity of a criminal group that harmed a very large number of investors, Estonian entrepreneurs, Estonian people? It was all that. And I want to emphasise here the totally irresponsible activities of the Riigikogu, which tried to wipe out the disclosure of this whole thing under the carpet. When we put forward a draft that the materials must be made public, to bring all the matters of this ugly incident to light, there was no necessary support in this Chamber. Nor did the proposal to lay down in law exactly how to force people to come before the Corruption Commission to report and answer questions. There was not enough political will to do this in this Chamber, too. I say it's also corruption, not only from somewhere below, but it's right here. I will put it to you all: let us put an end to it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U113	Thanks, everybody! I consider the third question to be closed and the questions answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U114	The fourth question is a question submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Ain Lutsep, Külliki Kübarsep, Monika Haukanõmme, Artur Talvik and Jüri Adams concerning the programme of Ida-Virumaa (No 378). Please, on behalf of Krista Aru's heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U115	Mr President! Dear Minister, Good people's representatives! Seven members of the Free Party Group have submitted an inquiry into the Ida-Virumaa programme. I ask in advance an apology from all elected delegates from South-East Estonia, Saaremaa, Hiiumaa and other places in Estonia that Ida-Virumaa has been refocused. There are two very clear and real reasons for this. First of all, let us not forget that 70% of the environmental and pollution charges received by the state budget come from Ida-Virumaa. The second reason is that the Ida-Virumaa programme, which has been constantly updated and modified since 1992, is now taking new turns again, setting a new focus, but no one understands what the focus of this programme is. What is the volume of this program? What are the objectives set for this programme? Are we trying to do something, or are we going to see that some of the work is done through the ministries anyway? Does this programme, also considering that there has been a reform of municipalities and new rural municipalities in Ida-Virumaa, better, more precisely and also more spectacularly appreciate the value that Ida-Virumaa really has, both in small places and in large cities of Ida-Virumaa? We are interested in the volume and focus of the programme and in the purpose of the programme as a whole, i.e. what are these major national objectives. Of course, we are also interested in smaller things: what has been done, for example, to launch the EUR 300 promised grant for educated staff working in the region in the form of a scholarship, and whether the Commission of three ministers (Ministers Reinsalu, Aab and Ossinovski) has been able to reach an agreement on the funding of the programme. This process was reported to have been completed in mid-October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U116	The questions must be answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! Good heirs! Thank you for the opportunity to speak about the Ida-Virumaa programme, both a more general concept and more precise activities, its objectives and its aim. The subject has really been up for a very, very long time. Ida-Virumaa is special in many ways, given the nature of the jobs there and the industrial enterprises there. When something happens there, problems are usually bigger than in other regions. I do not want to say, as Krista Aru began, that another region would be less important in Estonia. But specific problems, as we know, still have to do with Ida-Viru County. I will answer the questions in the order in which they have been put. Question 1: "Is the Ida-Virumaa programme ready and its financial volume? What are the specific actions of the programme? ' I will answer the first question a little bit more, then perhaps some of the following questions have been answered in part. The approach that the Ministry of Finance took to the development and support measures in Ida-Viru County was that we map out everything that needs to be done in different areas. Basically, it's mapped out. I went to the office with this package in October and introduced it. One part of this was that we tried to understand how much investment has already been decided in different areas, or how much investment is coming in the near future, and what these plans are, be they infrastructure sites, public authorities investments and job creation in Ida-Virumaa, employment and business programmes, industrial areas or industrial parks. We appreciated the period 2017 to 2021, and after we had put the entire country's contribution to this region together, we got a pretty good number, about 200 million. The second part of this big programme for the government, when we are talking about this larger, wider programme, was the impact of which support measures could be further enhanced in Ida-Viru County. If we speak more specifically, it can be said that some things have actually been decided. For example, the programme to strengthen the competitiveness of the regions has increased the amount of Ida-Virumaa, which is a priority among the regions. In addition, several other measures have also done so. However, the study also said that ministries were reviewing their action programmes, also as regards the use of the Structural Funds, because at the end of the funding period there was always a performance reserve or no use of certain funds. Here I cannot give orders; sectoral ministries should submit their proposals, whether there are other things that can be done in the framework of major projects and programmes in Ida-Viru County. The third part, now taken by the press as this Ida-Viru programme, is certain concrete actions and proposals, which are in fact additional activities in the development and support measures of Ida-Viru County. Here we have become as specific as possible, we have not taken these proposals from the ceiling. Much work was done by Mikhail Korb, who gathered proposals from entrepreneurs, municipalities and the Association of Municipalities of Ida-Virumaa. In the course of this work, there is always a financial limit to how much we can make of the proposals that could add the most value. The volume of this programme, launched in the second half of next year, is about 5 million, which is still being spelled out, in fact the budget resources are basically available in this size. The future outlook is 10 million a year. Since this programme, or this programme of accompanying measures, is planned for a longer period of time, as this effect is unlikely to be achieved in the short term, these activities, as well as the more precise figures for funding, can certainly change according to the achievement of these objectives. These additional activities are in principle intended, on the one hand, for the business environment, for job creation and for young professionals in Ida-Virumaa and, on the other hand, for improving the living environment, which should support the same objective. Something has also been done, for example, in the budget, as you have pointed out, a programme to support the urban environment, which has a total volume of 29 million since 2014 and will last until the end of the funding period. Some projects have been carried out and some are being carried out, others will be. Mapping has shown that it is the towns of Ida-Virumaa that are actually the worst in terms of living conditions. There is, for example, one problem with apartments that the owners have abandoned. If the number of inhabitants in the area decreases, this problem arises in the apartment buildings. You know the example of Kohtla-Järve, where people and housing associations give up apartments. The municipality has taken advantage of this possibility, which is in the law that the apartment can also be transferred to the State. Since this matter has not been settled and agreed, I do not want to reproach the city of Kohtla-Järve, for example, who has given up the most of these apartments. The municipality alone cannot cope with this problem; it is such a resource-intensive and labour-intensive issue. I think that, since it has been raised like this, the state should somehow find ways to solve this problem or, if we agree, we should help the municipality to deal with it. The topic of abandoning housing is highlighted in these specific activities. I have proposed that this could be financed by funds from privatisation. What else could be supported? One of the proposals concerns the housing programme, which is carried out by the Minister for Enterprise and the first round of which has taken place, but also my proposal in the office was that we should review the conditions and possibilities that might exist in this programme, so that municipalities can build rents and rental homes in order to be able to help at least in parallel to solve this specific problem. Measures to support entrepreneurship are important. In Ida-Virumaa, there is a need to diversify entrepreneurship, because it is large-scale industry-based there. We could find ways to support small and medium-sized enterprises, also given that the state has already allocated quite a lot of resources to the creation of industrial parks. Unfortunately, the filling of these parks is what it is. Nor should we expect such a measure to create an industrial park, and at the next moment, the whole industrial park will be full of companies. Speaking to the carrier of the industrial area programme, it turns out that companies are coming, they are coming in a row, but there is one barrier that is also in other parts of Estonia: entrepreneurs are hindered by the fact that real estate costs relatively little there. I'm gonna go and invest, I'm gonna bury half a million in it, but when the real estate evaluator comes, he's gonna estimate the cost of this potential new construction at 200,000. How do I get a loan from the bank? There could certainly be some kind of supporting financial instrument or investment support for businesses as one measure. The idea of a scholarship has sounded, and it has been discussed very vividly in the government office as to whether it is really needed and in what size it is needed. I am a strong supporter of this measure. I hope that this will be supported. There have been proposals that the state should suddenly deal with the public sector and encourage it there. We know that certain wage subsidies or higher wages at national workplaces exist in Ida-Viru County. There have been thoughts that maybe this should be harmonised or paid a scholarship when going to work in the public sector. But it doesn't solve the problem in general. I think one of the biggest problems in Ida-Virumaa is related to young people studying in vocational training institutions. The VET centre has really developed a lot. A hat for entrepreneurs who themselves have come along and helped to shape the learning content of the VET centre in order to meet the needs of the entrepreneurs and to build on the jobs they have to offer. But it often happens that a young person in Ida-Virumaa stops a vocational education institution and goes on to Tallinn or Finland. Whether he or she is not satisfied with the conditions there, or this living environment is not satisfied with these questions. I think that such a measure could, however, help young people to stay in the region and why not go there from elsewhere in Estonia, if there is a suitable job and such support. Okay. Now to the next questions. I think I've got a broader bottom figured out. I'm not ready to say the exact figures here, because they have to be confirmed in the office. Although I can tell you that there is a cover for the volumes that are scheduled for next year. 2.8 million is the volume of the Ida-Virumaa programme and 1 million of the administration of the Minister of Public Administration has been added to it. There is also the money from privatisation, which concerns these empty apartments or semi-empty houses in particular, so that we can contribute to solving this problem. The choice is whether to do so through the municipality or by the State itself to take a measure, but it is likely that the municipality should be present there. The second question: 'Which entrepreneurs and municipalities of Ida-Viru have been involved in the drafting of the programme? Has the programme been approved by the Association of Ida-Viru Municipalities? ' As I said, these proposals have come mainly from there. There is much more of these proposals. If we had the capacity, the resources and the possibilities, we might be able to do more. But when we talk about the concrete proposals I went to the office with, I can say that I met with the Ida-Virumaa Envoy Group, I met several entrepreneurs, I went to Ida-Virumaa several times during the summer, and that was a constant theme. In most cases, the measures that I proposed in the office were highlighted, in the order of priority, in front of everything. Mikhail Korb, too, did a very big preparatory work just to collect these proposals. The third question: 'The work option of the programme drawn up under the leadership of the Minister of State Administration M.Korb provided for the annual allocation of approximately EUR 20 million to the Ida-Viru programme. Why has the government coalition retreated from the offer? ' I actually described it as not being able to say that there was a retreat. If only those additional measures that are specifically mentioned and look at this volume, it may seem that this amount is lower. At the same time, the leverage of existing investments will have a much greater impact than EUR 20 million per year. So we certainly haven't retreated from it. As a representative of Krista Aru's heirs, it has long been said in Ida-Virumaa that you collect pollution charges and resource charges from here, but you give back relatively little. Something goes back there, as you know, the municipalities also receive a part of the resource fee back. These things must be distinguished from pollution charges; we cannot put them in one pot at the Environmental Investment Centre. Among my proposals was the proposal to the Minister for the Environment to review whether it would not be possible to support projects in Ida-Virumaa from pollution charges, to make a separate application round or in any way to distinguish this region. Since there is still relatively more pollution occurring there than elsewhere in Estonia, more money could be used to solve these problems. The Minister of the Environment has promised to bring these proposals into the office. Speaking of the longer financing model, it has to be said that the resource fee is now more expensive, because of the price of oil on the world market. In fact, the issue of resource fees has also passed through the government. You know that there is currently one formula that takes into account the price of oil, there are other options under consideration, in 2018 it will remain the same, but in fact, because of the price increase, the resource fee will be higher in the state budget. It is proposed that a certain amount per year could be allocated to the Ida-Virumaa programme, as this money has in many ways been received from Ida-Virumaa. Next question: 'What is the planned source of funding for the Ida-Virumaa programme (as environmental charges, in what proportion?) so that the program does not become another belletism? ' I very much hope that he will not become a belletristian, which is why I am making these concrete proposals. I have described what the proportion of environmental charges could be: part of the pollution charges will be used by the Environmental Investment Centre, from which more and more money will be channelled to environmental projects, and the other part will be the resource fee from which the Ida-Viru County programme could be financed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U118	Dear Minister, Your call time is up. We all know that an excellent opportunity is also to answer those questions that have not yet been answered in the future round of questions and answers. Given our rules, I'll give you the first chance to ask the question to the inquisitors. Hatter, please! Prepare Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U119	Thank you. That's a whole new rule I heard for the first time. I want to ask the minister this way. The Committee on Legal Affairs has also often raised the issue of no lawyers being found in Ida-Virumaa, for example. We ourselves legalised, during its composition, that more should be paid to the judges there. Has there been any analysis of the impact of these measures? In one way, is it better to find employees thanks to these so-called wage supplements, and then how these people have been received at local level? Is there a problem when a local person feels that he or she is not valued as much as the person who came in, even though he or she could receive the same salary?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U120	Thank you for your question. If this local person goes to work in the corresponding structure, he will also receive this higher salary, I mean the Police and Border Guard Board, the prison structures, the teachers of the Estonian language in certain schools. Yes, I have to say, unfortunately, that as far as prisons are concerned, for example, the vakants across Estonia are large and also in Ida-Virumaa it is relatively large. Despite even higher wages, people don't tend to go to work there. Rather, what matters is what cannot be resolved in one moment, but what local governments have done in Ida-Virumaa: there have been many recent projects to improve the living environment. We are taking Sillamäe or Narva were actually very much tried here, and the country has come to the aid of some money. If we don't get a better living environment and if we don't get public-paid jobs there... There was a big argument with the National Defence Academy, and eventually it was decided to do college there. This is one of the topics that the Minister of Public Administration has to deal with, the removal of state institutions from Tallinn. Ida-Viru County does not look bad on the basis of current, say, inputs that have come from ministries. The Police and Border Guard Board is planning to take more jobs there, the Ministry of Justice is planning to take quite a lot of jobs there, the Integration Foundation is going to Narva. These proposals will come in a row. The training centre or college of the Estonian National Defence Academy will also be there. There may be a certain concentration required. At the same time, one of the proposals of the Minister of Justice is that the state should not also think about the housing of public employees. That sounds interesting. Why not think about it with the municipalities, too, because the current housing programme is aimed specifically at the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U121	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U122	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. What part of this programme is tourism? Is there already a programme of specific actions or specific objects? I ask specifically and give an example such as the Polar Manor of Kukruse. It is of special significance to a Russian tourist, thanks to those to whom it is dedicated and to this era, but it does not work as it might, for the reason that this work is unfinished. Are such objects foreseen in this program? I'm not talking about the next or the next year, but in the long run.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U123	Thank you for your question. One of the main concerns that Ida-Virumaa has is that we have a lot of measures to develop tourism and entrepreneurship through the Enterprise Development Foundation, but projects coming from Ida-Virumaa that receive relatively few grants. One of the suggestions that sounded was that, in cooperation with the Minister for Enterprise, one could think about how to support the capacity to raise money from national programmes where projects compete with other tourism and business development programmes for support measures of the Enterprise Development Foundation. I'm sure you could use some help here. It is often said that an Ida-Virumaa operator may not be so competitive as to apply for and receive these projects compared to other regions. It's a serious issue, and I can't tell you the final answer either. But tourism is a sector that can be said to be in very positive development, also in Ida-Virumaa. The number of accommodations has increased by about a third over the last few years. Despite even all the collapses that have taken place in relations between Estonia and Russia and the attitude of Russia, tourism is still growing quite strongly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U124	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U125	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! If I am correctly informed, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Education and Research, for example, will pay an extra fee to go to work in Ida-Virumaa, but it will not be paid in all ministries, for example, in the Ministry of Culture. Why is that, and does it have to be that way? How would you do if it were in your power? I am also interested in your answers to the fifth and sixth questions of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U126	Thank you. I'll try to answer it then, now I have a good chance. When answering the Hatter's question, I guess that principle sounded like there were other conditions besides pay. Even higher wages have often not enabled jobs to be filled, as I said, in prisons, for example. As regards this proposal by the Minister for Justice, so that we can analyse whether we should not think about a certain wage supplement for public sector professionals in different areas in Ida-Viru County, that is the case and that is the case. Here, too, the idea that there are many other regions, rural areas, where life is not much better in many respects than in Ida-Virumaa. And will this salary alone help? Supportive measures should always be seen. When I prepared these proposals and programmes, I rather felt that, on the one hand, the question of housing and the living environment was why young people are leaving now. We're not gonna solve this in an instant, but we're gonna have to think about it and start solving it. If it improves, it is likely that the same public-paid people will go there and that this raise will be needed. But the issue is topical because we are doing this analysis, from the Minister of Justice, that was the suggestion. The fifth and sixth questions I'm trying to answer as much as I can. There's no roofing money in that program. Everything is meant to be done with open rounds. There are different implementers, but this money is divided into open rounds. There is no specific investment measure for municipalities in this programme, specifically among the additional measures I have mentioned. One topical issue where cooperation with local governments is certainly needed is empty apartments and housing. There is currently a programme to strengthen the region's competitiveness and a programme to develop urban areas in Ida-Virumaa. It is worth considering that this urban development programme will continue in the next funding period, that there will be rules, that there will be calls for proposals and that better projects will be supported in these regions. I'm sure you should think about that. I don't see the money in this program. The sixth question states that two regions have developed in Ida-Virumaa: the northern region and the southern region. The northern region is where the cities are located with their industrial companies and with certain specific problems (there we are talking about the living environment), and then there are municipalities where there are perhaps not so many problems with the living environment, and there is probably not much oil shale mining there either, when I look on the map. I do not know how specific it is to support small businesses in one region or another, how good they are, but as Mr Stalnukhin pointed out, certain places are very attractive to tourists. You could think about that and maybe negotiate with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. It was mentioned here that certain structural instruments could be used if they had not been identified for their purpose during the current programming period or had a tendency to remain unexploited. This could be one area.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U127	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, thank you for your answers. In one of your responses, you said that next year EUR 2.8 million will be planned for the Ida-Virumaa programme. At the same time, you and Minister Samson have said in the past that the cost of the programme will be EUR 5 million next year. I would like to know which amount is competent or the last or right that will come into this budget, and for which activities this money is specifically intended. You've already mentioned a number of activities today, but maybe you're just repeating it in terms of clarity and specificity. What are the activities for which this EUR 2.8 or EUR 5 million will be channelled next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U129	Thank you for your question. That's 4.95 if I say exactly. 2.8 million are separate for the Ida-Virumaa programme and the administration of the Minister of Public Administration is, let's say, a certain amount of money left over in connection with the termination of rural governments, which, I hope, the office will allow me to use for this. In addition, the money from privatisation is what I was talking about and what is meant for the problem of these empty apartments and apartment buildings. One answer to where the money is spent is that the money from privatisation is planned there next year. I must say that these proposals have passed through the government, in general they have been accepted, but we talked about further measures. The ambition is bigger in the office. Whether we can get these concrete things in there is also a question. In passing, I can reply that yes, these three ministers have met and talked about where they are spending and what these objectives are and about funding. I can certainly say that the resources deriving from the resource fee have not created a dispute that could not be used in Ida-Virumaa. This has been one principle, but it can be formally decided in spring, as you know, when there is the drafting of a national budget strategy. But there's 5 million next year. I want to launch this programme in the second half of the year, and this 5 million will also be transferred to the next few years. I don't really want to go into the details. All these things should be fully approved by the cabinet, one hundred percent. But, as I said, there are two plans here: one is the living environment and the other is the business environment, jobs, and also the support of young professionals. These are the basics. I think I've actually described them all once in my discussion of Ida-Viru County issues. I do not want to say numbers from the euro until they have been approved by the government office. But in this panic, I propose.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U130	Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U131	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. For many years, there has been a system that local governments, where oil shale is mined, receive quite a lot of money from the resource fee, some build wine cellars, etc. But the story is, it's only one half of this question because this oil shale comes to the Viru Chemistry Group and our power stations. We're gonna mine 15 to 16 million in one year, and we're gonna have to dump the oil shale that's been through the power plants and the Viru Chemistry Group, somewhere. It is essentially Kohtla-Järve and Narva territory. We have never talked about these local authorities suffering from what is being deposited on their territory, they have never received support for it. Has anything been discussed about this, or is everything going to stay the way it was?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U132	Thank you for your question. I can't tell you where or what specific depositions are. In fact, through various funding, the state has directed money to solve these very big problems. Let us think, for example, of the Sillamäe waste facility, which is a basically resolved issue with state money, where the Baltic Sea countries and other European countries came to the aid. In fact, the money goes on these environmental projects, also through the Environmental Investment Centre and several major projects, it cannot be said that nothing goes back there. But this general principle, as I said here, is that environmental charges are received by the Environmental Investment Centre and, in order to address pollution problems, Ida-Virumaa should receive funding from the Environmental Investment Centre as a priority for these projects, because these problems are greater than in any other region. In this respect, the Minister of the Environment also promised to make his proposal to the cabinet. Another thing is the resource fee, which has become part of some municipalities where oil shale has been extracted. What have they done for it? I think they've improved the living environment, haven't they? Some other municipalities may be upset that these municipalities have been relatively rich, they have received a resource fee, but according to recent legislative changes, the remuneration has decreased considerably; these municipalities no longer receive that much resource remuneration. Other developments should be seen on the basis of the revenue side of the state budget. The pollution charges received by KIC should support environmental projects if these problems have arisen there, which you have described, and resource charges could finance measures to develop and support Ida-Viru County.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U133	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for all these clear and logical answers. I will return to the committee set up by these three ministers for a moment. As I understand from the press, you really took your proposals to the government office in mid-October, and this resulted in the creation of a working committee for three ministers. Were there any differences of opinion that made it necessary to set up this special committee, or was it rather that some of the problems needed to be dealt with more thoroughly? Is there any really new objective or target to be hoped for from this Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U135	Thank you for your question. There's a very formal word for 'Commission' here, actually it's a standard form of government work. If ministers have questions, if there are proposals that ministers want to include in this programme, or if they want to solve certain issues, these things will be worked out. I can say that when I went to government with the original proposal, no one opposed these measures. Rather, they wanted to get more information about what was planned, and they also wondered whether there could be greater ambition, so that they could still look at the resources of the funding period, as to whether there could still be some other Ida-Virumaa business. I know that the Minister of Health and Labour, for example, is very concerned about hospitals that are in a really relatively poor state there. As former Minister of Social Affairs, I know that the hospital problems in this region are unresolved in terms of investment. Rather, there was greater ambition, and we mapped out whether we could accomplish it somehow. I guess that's where the monetary limit comes in. Now it's up to the office. I hope to go there with the amended proposals, mainly with the improved proposals, and nothing has been taken. I hope this will happen in December, not in November. We have this material together, but we don't have much time until the end of November. I very much want this to be decided, because if we want to launch it in the second half of next year, we need to prepare, because all these measures have many applications, there is the Enterprise Estonia, the Centre for Ida-Viru Entrepreneurship and the municipalities that should be partners. It's gonna take some time to prepare it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U136	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable waitress! One of the topics that went through here was the so-called housing fund and the transfer of its problems, figuratively speaking, to the state. I'm interested in how you intend to do it. In fact, I would like to know what the role of the municipality itself has been here. If we are just talking about people not being able to pay for heat, then in general a normal government will monitor these families and find a solution. Could this set a precedent? You yourself mentioned in your answers that Ida-Viru County is certainly not the worst region in Estonia on its income and perhaps on certain economic conditions. Does it create a national precedent for the mere transfer of these responsibilities at some point?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U138	Thank you for your question. Ida-Viru and Kohtla-Järve are certainly not just the issue of abandoning apartments, there are apartments all over Estonia, there are only a few such apartments elsewhere, but Ida-Virus has a larger number of apartments. On the issue of housing abandonment, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance are currently preparing a way forward. The Ministry of Justice has this role there to consider the legal bases for how it can be regulated in the first place. There are property issues that are not very easy to regulate. If there are three people living in one house who own the apartment, and then there are a lot of apartments where no one lives, but what has someone bought, how do you solve it? The house is half empty and falling apart, not even half empty, but almost completely empty. It's a complicated question. The last time I went to the government with the topic of abandoning apartments, it was agreed that the ministries would bring this topic back to the office in cooperation by the end of the year, proposing solutions, possible legislative changes, etc. So it's not just an Ida-Viru County problem. This issue must be resolved across Estonia. On the responsibility of the municipality, I think this problem is more concentrated in Ida-Virumaa. I can see that too. If you have been to Ida-Virumaa yourself, you know that there are certain areas where the loss of industrial plants or the loss of jobs in one place has been the cause of this problem in a concentrated way. I think that if things like this have happened somewhere else in the region, they have still not been so large. The population in this region has fallen very much more than in other regions when we look at the last decades. That's why these empty houses and empty apartments. The solution must be legally and perhaps legally clear who will then be responsible, whether the municipality or the state, and how we will solve this problem. One solution must be found across Estonia; it is not needed separately for Ida-Virumaa. However, since this problem is concentrated there, we may be able to help solve this problem with these programme activities. That is the question that there is this problem more than in other regions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U139	Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thanks for the answers. I'll open negotiations if I have a call to make. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U140	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for correct and meaningful answers. Honourable representatives of the people! It was very necessary and nice that the Minister explained the large volume of the Ida-Viru programme, the longer term perspective and the additional measures intended to be implemented this year. I'll go over it again. We do not want to say here in any way that another region of Estonia is less important and should not be dealt with, as if Ida-Virumaa alone was important. But, above all, it is precisely because many environmental and pollution problems of great importance to Estonia as a whole have indeed concentrated on Ida-Viru County, that we, as well as the government, need to look at the prism of Estonia's whole development. I listened carefully to the Minister's answers, but I still think there were several questions left in the air. First of all, the same resource fee. So when will it be decided? When could it be that we no longer talk about the need to set a specific unit, size or percentage of the resource fee that would go back to the region of Ida-Viru County? Secondly, it is true that red tape is increasing and creating a burden on businesses, it is either industrial park or tourism, because at least a large proportion of these additional measures currently require calls for proposals. This means an application and, inevitably, bureaucracy. As you yourself said very nicely, writing project applications is not a core activity, and I do not think that it should be one of the main activities of business. As a country, we should be able to manage these measures and subsidies, and we should also be able to channel them so that they do not become a new form of enterprise. Unfortunately, in Estonia, bureaucracy is producing itself and bureaucracy will soon kill many initiatives. Industrial parks. Indeed, the country has tried, it has supported and built these industrial parks, there are many surfaces. We all know what the industrial park managers there are complaining about. They were hoping to get Russian companies there, but we can say they're not coming right now. Consequently, this problem needs to be addressed and the use of these industrial parks must be helped. People. The big question and problem of Ida-Virumaa is people, educated workforce, who would not drive from Tartu or Tallinn to work there, but who would build their own home in Ida-Virumaa. Here, of course, the environment is really important, not only in terms of cleanliness, but also in terms of functioning, in terms of social security, social appeal. Here is a completely unused resource for all Ida-Viru cultural institutions, their potential, their readiness, they are libraries or museums, and their people's lively will to preserve and develop the environment of Ida-Virumaa through culture. I strongly encourage you to think like the Minister said that there must be greater ambition for Ida-Virumaa. We cannot list these measures again in 2017 and the instruments that have worked all the time, but we should still have a broader view and a longer perspective, just as we dared to dream in 1928. It seems to me that in almost any area, we do not dare to set a big goal and then implement even half of it. The goal of a large, bold and powerful Find it in Ida-Virumaa! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U141	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U142	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to talk long about what's been done to implement this program somewhere in spring. We discussed two large blocks with which we worked and on which we made proposals from Ida-Virumaa. First, the living environment. Another direction that we would like to see developed is jobs. If we can handle this, I think it's the real program we could work with. But one more thing I would like to stress. Since there was little money and it is not enough in these years, we should think about where we put the money when we create this programme, where are the basic points that we want to finance. I would point out that ten or more years of hard work has been done on industrial parks. If you drive towards Narva, you will see that on one side there is Narva Industrial Park, if you look at Jõhvi, you will see that Jõhvi Industrial Park is ready, soon-to-be the Kohtla-Järve Park will be ready, but the worst thing is that we will see that there are, say, two large or smaller companies that exist there, the rest of the fields are empty. We put a lot of money in it to have water, sewers, electricity and heat. We would like it to have a higher value. Maybe you don't need a big program, 100 or 200 points, this program could be smaller, one third of what I called it, but it would be more useful. I believe that then we would see the implementation of this programme from a completely different perspective and would applaud what ministers and our country have done for Ida-Virumaa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U143	The members of the Riigikogu have no further requests for speech. The Minister doesn't have one either. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U144	The following is an inquiry on our agenda by Külliki Kübarsepp, Monika Haukanõm, Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Artur Talvik and Ain Lutsepp. In the name of the heirs, Külliki Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U145	Good Chairman! Good ambassadors! Indeed, on 25 October, we presented an inquiry to the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, Urve Palo, regarding the transfer of the ultra-fast Internet to the rural population. In fact, we know that everyone has this problem in their hearts, that there are few people in the country, and the increasingly priority question is how to create conditions for people to continue to be in the country and for those who can go back there to their roots. But it takes jobs to be created there, or conditions to be met, for example, in a city where work can also be done in a country. One key word is the spread of the Internet. However, service providers have been operating in more or less satisfactory ways in large centres so far. Of course, there may be problems there too, but it can be said that there is an internet there, but there are also so-called white areas in Estonia where there is no Internet in essence. In order to find a solution to the problem, first and foremost to raise awareness and inform local people, the municipalities put their backs together and formed an NGO, mainly as a project by the municipalities of Harjumaa, Läänemaa and Pärnumaa. Their activities started last year. We also adopted the relevant draft in the Riigikogu at the beginning of the year and dealt with this issue. Unfortunately, the municipalities announced through correspondence that they were concerned because the Minister no longer contacted them, and they do not understand what is happening, because in the spring, when the minister and his party associates were walking around Estonia, they understood very clearly that the Ministry was ready to help them with 20 million euros a year so that they could deal with the issue of Internet distribution, and they should cover two thirds of the costs. They were also willing to take out a loan. But on 24 October, a scandal exploded through the media, and it turned out as if the minister alone had decided to turn his back on the local governments. The municipalities were left in a helpless position. The reason was a press release from Elektrilev and Telia, who announced that they were finally ready to provide the service, although for example, the obligation to provide this service should have been in the electric field for a long time. We have therefore asked six questions to clarify the matter. Last week I spoke more actively to the media people who were in trouble because the Minister was unable to provide answers on this issue in the last two weeks. Now is this opportunity, and I hope that the Minister will be able to answer these questions in public from now on. The three main questions are as follows (I do not put them in order of priority). Firstly, local authorities are concerned because they have incurred real costs but have not received a satisfactory answer as to why they are not prepared to cover the costs incurred. After all, it was about coming to the state to help. Secondly, why is one major winner preferred rather than, for example, a regional number of winners who could distribute online services on land? This would give the same NGOs the opportunity to participate. Is there a guarantee and who gives this guarantee that, for example, Elektrilevi or Telia is a better service provider and that the internet will definitely reach the country? What time does it get to that country? So we expect answers from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U146	Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U147	Good evening. Dear Chairman, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'm responding to an inquiry that was just mentioned. The first question: 'We have understood that the idea of additional support for municipalities was to develop an internet connection network where large telecoms do not do so due to economic inefficiencies. Why has there been no obligation to establish such a network for incumbents so far? Why is their work now rewarded with EUR 20 million? Who is responsible for this? ' Neither I, as Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, nor any other minister in the Government of the Republic, has any legal possibility of ordering communication companies operating in Estonia to establish networks. The telecommunications sector has been open to market competition in Estonia since 2001. This area is governed by the Electronic Communications Act, which transposes five directives in force in the European Union. In particular, private enterprises rely on profitability, which in turn depends on market competition, as well as on the wishes and solvency of customers. I don't think any communications company would miss the opportunity to find new customers and revenues, if it makes any business sense. A few years ago, a sufficiently large number of consumers did not consider it necessary to have fast or ultra-fast broadband, even less being prepared to pay every month for higher speeds. However, modern technology solutions and the consumer's desire to transmit video content have also led telecom companies to invest more in both mobile and fixed networks. The government doesn't reward anyone for their work. The objective of the government is to ensure equivalent infrastructure also in areas where the communication undertakings themselves are not prepared to invest for economic reasons. It is our responsibility to ensure a balanced regional development, and for this we are using EUR 20 million (i.e. EUR 2 million for two years, 10 million for both years and not 20 million per year, as has been said earlier, it was a mistake) for the construction of NGA networks in areas of market failure, i.e. only those areas where the private sector itself is not ready to go. So it is not possible for the state to contribute to where the private sector is contributing, which is contrary to state aid rules. We don't want any cases like this to be repaid. The second question: 'One of the reasons for the withdrawal of 20 million allowances from own governments is that, in the European Commission's view, it is probably prohibited to apply for State aid that is time-intensive and labour-intensive. Why was it not clear to the Ministry at the beginning of the year when the amendment to the Electricity Market Act was adopted whether or not this method would be subject to prohibited State aid? When did you start preliminary negotiations with the European Commission? When did you realise that your initial funding scheme wasn't competent? " First of all, I would like to stress that no one has been taken away. The government discussed the last mile topic in February. Then EUR 20 million was allocated for the construction of broadband networks in 2018 and 2019, 10 million for both years, and I was authorised to develop a support measure. All state budget institutions should know very well that they do not own the money until the measure has been developed and the aid has been obtained from it. Secondly, I certainly do not want to emphasise that it was prohibited State aid. There would be no way in which prohibited State aid could be granted by the European Commission to obtain a State aid permit, no matter how long it takes to work. Support for rural projects would have gone under the so-called 'direct investment model', i.e. the public sector itself establishes and manages the network. This has been the case in a number of Member States of the European Union and the broadband State aid guidelines published by the European Commission describe this model with the restrictions on it. However, the implementation of this model is unfortunately not possible under the Block Exemption Regulation and would necessarily require an application for a State aid authorisation, in which the European Commission would be able to verify that the proposed measure still complies with all the rules laid down. Perhaps it is not clear whether it would have been allowed or not, but we should have applied for it. There is no direct link between this support measure and the amendment to the Electricity Market Act adopted at the beginning of the year. The amendment to the Electricity Market Act reduced the existing excessive administrative burden of installing the broadband network on existing electricity poles. The support measure was developed in the Ministry of Economic Affairs after the discussion of the Government of the Republic on 23 February, which confirmed the principles of the support measure. The first version of the Ministerial Regulation was completed in May this year and was sent to various parties, including members of the Riigikogu and the Ministry of Finance, for an informal opinion. In cooperation with State aid experts from the Ministry of Finance, it was considered that limiting the number of applicants to legal entities owned solely by local authorities would not allow this measure to be included in the scope of the European Commission Block Exemption Regulation. In June, the Ministry of Economic Affairs informally contacted officials of the European Commission's Directorate-General for Competition to clarify further matters, and in July we received final confirmation from them that it was necessary to apply for a State aid authorisation. The preparations for the application for State aid authorisation were then started. We also informed the local authorities and the leaders of the projects. Question 3: "Why were the local authorities given a very clear hope and promise that they would carry out these works? What are the costs of preparatory activities carried out by municipalities from the beginning of the year to October? Will the government cover the damage caused to the municipalities by the misleading promise? ' Until this autumn, both municipalities and the state had the opinion that the so-called regional model was the best option for developing broadband in rural areas. The assumption of this model was to cover dense and diffuse settlements simultaneously in a way that the network of densely populated areas would also help to subsidise the network of distributed areas. Both local authorities and the Ministry of Economic Affairs worked on this. In the autumn, however, both Telia and Elektrilevi informed about their plans to increase investments, which, for economic reasons, naturally focus on densely populated areas. It was then clear that the regional model that had been planned so far was no longer viable, since the state budget was no longer sufficient to intervene where companies were already making investments, nor was it allowed, and the viability of the regional model was no longer sufficient. Speaking of the costs of the municipalities, we asked the county councils to provide us with a detailed overview of the expenditure incurred. We received written answers about five counties, which were involved in three projects: the digiTee project was a Pärnumaa project, the digiMaa Harjumaa project and the Digikond joint project of Lääne, Rapla and Järvamaa county. The total costs incurred by these five counties in 2017 are estimated at around EUR 198000, according to the information provided to us. In Pärnumaa expenditure was started already in the summer of 2016, when there was no government plan to support the construction of access networks at all. I have said so before, and I stand firm: no harm has been done to anyone. Municipalities have used the budgetary resources received from these taxes for a useful purpose, they have informed people and collected their requests for high-speed internet access. Thanks to this wide-ranging work, it is clear that the government's decision to support the construction of 20 million broadband networks in rural areas has been right. Citizens want to be built. These preparatory costs would not have been reimbursed by the State even at the beginning of the plan by means of a measure intended solely to cover the costs of investments, i.e. design and construction. Now the situation has really changed; municipalities no longer have to take on large debt commitments. However, information and requests already made can also be taken into account when launching a public competition and building a network. Since time is short, I will not read any more questions. I will continue with the answers immediately. Answer to question four. With regard to the last mile, our only objective is to ensure high-speed internet access for all residents of Estonia and to achieve it as quickly as possible and cost-effectively for the taxpayer. A high-speed internet in rural areas is an important accelerator for local authorities, which allows for the development of entrepreneurship, tourism and teleworking and the provision of modern infrastructure for local residents. The ability of the private sector to invest itself is a very good message to the local taxpayer and will enable us to achieve the end result significantly more effectively. If we had initially planned to cover between three and four counties with high-speed Internet according to the county financing model, taking into account the investment plans of the communication operators and also the new part of the communications market for Elektrilevi, it is estimated that it will be possible to cover almost the whole of Estonia with a high-speed Internet if the state co-finances distributed areas. The figures are still preliminary, but we currently calculate that we will be able to cover the whole of Estonia within 20 million in five years. However, the model of support for local authorities envisaged a total investment by the State in the order of 70 million, with no more than 20 million cover and 100 million additional funding from local authorities themselves. Thus, this model commits the local authorities to invest themselves, i.e. to borrow, and saves taxpayers' money several times, while at the same time allowing the ultimate goal to be met faster. Answer to question five. No company or lobby makes me make decisions that I don't think are right or necessary. When Elektrilevi introduced its business plan, which they intend to implement independently, regardless of the state's support, and Telia also announced its increasing investment in broadband networks, it was clear to me that the regional model was no longer a viable alternative and that the new market situation had the most effective opportunity for the state and local authorities to launch a national public competition. The development of the terms of the contest has begun. As soon as the internal discussions are closed, they shall also be made public. The competition is organised by the Technical Surveillance Authority. The cost of administration we are trying to keep to a minimum and use as much as possible existing officials, but it cannot be ruled out that we need to hire someone alongside us as a consultant. I would like to stress that the financing model for the whole of Estonia is open to all bidders. The winner is the fastest, cheapest and most of Estonia's rural areas with the slow internet are covered with a new connection. In addition, the winner must offer an operator-neutral solution, i.e. it must be open to all operators. Answer to the last question. We would like the winner of the procurement to continue working with regional teams and, if possible, to establish connections in accordance with the mapping. This means that we want the thousands of people across Estonia who have announced that they want a fast internet, to have it. My aim is for all white broadband areas, i.e. market failure areas, to be covered by 2022 at the latest. The maximum amount of the connection fee that can be charged when the network is built up in the event of immediate connection is to be set out in the terms of the public competition. My wish is for it to be less than 200 euros. At the same time, I would like to stress that no agreement has been reached with the local authorities. EUR 300 has been a subscription fee which, according to the various parties, is the average level. If this is much higher, many residents will give up their membership, as it will become relatively expensive in terms of income. In Southeast Estonia, for example, people were allowed a €150 subscription fee, and in Harjumaa, people were able to choose between three amounts when they announced their wish to join. I cannot take responsibility for the local government's shared commitments before the local elections to bring broadband to citizens, even free of charge. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U148	Questions for the Minister. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U149	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I would like you to make it clear who or what the private sector is. When we are talking about Elektrilevi, for example, when we look at the government's website, we see that this is a 100% state-owned company, for which the government should have the opportunity and the right to provide guidance on where it should make its investments. It was said here that they were not prepared to invest and now they are, and I did not find in the press release the amount that would have given the assurance that they would certainly have this readiness. Please comment on whether Elektrilev is a private sector or is a public undertaking, which I personally would not like to take as an example of a typical private company.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U150	Thank you. Elektrilevi is AS Elektrilevi and Elektrilevi is a private sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U151	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In your answers, you made it very clear to us that the Government of the Republic cannot support local authorities to cover the costs already incurred in developing the broadband network, nor do you support further activities, as this could be prohibited State aid. Maybe this comparison isn't appropriate, but I can't help but ask. Is there no same risk, state aid and its non-tolerable nature, for example, in the case of the rental house project? After all, there is actually a similar or relatively similar scheme: local authorities can submit applications, take out loans, etc. Are these projects similar or not? Or was I just being arbitrary?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U153	They have no resemblance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U154	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U155	All right. I'm amazed at the arrogance of how you respond, Urve. First of all, state companies. Here we are dealing with the so-called state capitalism that we see in front of us. But speaking of the market failure, what do you say to the people who went along with this digimaa project, I'm that person, I'm from Harjumaa, aren't I, who lived with, who was in contact with, and who really saw that someone took care of them? Then at one point, they just close the store and they say, oh, wow, there's a state aid problem. When I came to the village where I live, a private company would have asked for an enormous amount of money, EUR 5,000 or EUR 7,000 for joining. It's like too much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U156	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U157	What can you say to people whose expectations have been deceived?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U158	Arthur, you called me by my first name. I also say to you, Arthur, you are a wise man with two legs on the ground, landman. You should understand. Let me explain it to you one more time. If you were in my position, I really, really hope you'd do the same thing. I really hope so, and I'm pretty sure of that, too, knowing you're a smart guy. Once again, if the question is whether earthlings get electricity, sorry, last mile or not, then I think we're both going to choose this path so that they get it. This is the initiative of today's government, which he has taken on by his own free will. It's never been before. Today's government has said that we are allocating money. At first, we thought about the seed money that we could do in four or five counties to start over, and people in the country could access the Internet. Indeed, when there was a meeting of the Cabinet in February and we discussed how best to do this, we made the best decision at the time: we will start to make sure that we do not pulsify one community or one village, but at least on a county basis, then we will have lower maintenance costs later, etc. That made sense. That's where I started going quietly. I saw that Pärnumaa had already been joined a year earlier, spent and printed brochures. People were good, they were already united, because they saw that otherwise there wouldn't seem to be any place for that last mile to come home. Indeed, this business plan, which was then, also in Pärnumaa, which was the first one, seemed very reasonable: it is done in dense settlement areas, where for some unexplained reason business companies had not gone, and in addition it is also done in scattered settlement areas and it works in such a way that the person living in the diffuse settlement area can also be joined to less than 300 euros, just as they join in the city of Pärnu or other centre. This means that densely populated areas subsidise distributed areas. Everything seemed nice. But if you get information that there's more than 200 million private money on the market to build the last mile, then no minister can say that it can't be used. It'd be stupid too, I couldn't say it, it's not possible. There's been a story about 200 million in electricity, and Telia's been making a press release about 50 million. They have said that they are investing quickly in densely populated areas, so this old plan that densely populated areas also help to cover the costs of distributed areas simply does not work because the state must not give money where the private sector has already gone into operation. In any case, we would have had to map areas where the private sector does not invest and say that public sector or local authorities could invest there. There is never me, there is no government, no one said that we are going to give money to people or local governments. We have said that we are doing everything we can to ensure that the inhabitants of the scattered regions can finally catch the last mile. But I see those old plans aren't working. In Pärnumaa, who started this old plan in summer 2016, did information work and printed brochures and everything, nobody forbids going forward, nobody. They couldn't dream that the country would come to help. But why don't they go on, I'll ask. That's why this old plan doesn't work anymore. Everyone understands who thinks at all soberly and leaves their emotions at home. I really thought it was very naive of me! This is good news for Estonian governments, Estonian taxpayers, when they come and say: good friends, you don't have to take out any more loans, you don't have to try to pay back the loan, and yet people living in a distributed area get access to the high-speed internet. I thought that was good news. But I was wrong. It turns out that for some X-reasons, someone thinks that it is more important whether the cost of mapping in some regions is paid or not, but not whether internet access reaches people. I have already given this example, but I will bring it again, because I think it represents this situation very well. Let's say I'm a housekeeper or a housekeeper, I have my own housekeeper, and then the country says, "You know, friends, start thinking that you need to heat or renovate your house so that it's modern, you spend less on electricity and heating, and so on, and we're thinking that we're also going to do some kind of support measure, we don't know exactly which one yet, but we're coming to help you in some part. 'If, for example, I do the house insulation project or switch, God forbid, one window away and then the country tells me, 'We decided that we would heat your entire house, you wouldn't have to do anything of your own,' but I'm starting to resent who's gonna pay the cost of doing my project, then it's gonna go a little bit into the same hole. Once again, Arthur, if you were in my place, you'd have a common sense that it's not possible to go on with the old plan. Once again, the municipalities were not allowed to receive money, the municipalities were promised that we would go to help them. It was not the case that the municipalities came to the aid of the state, the state still said that it would go to the aid of the municipalities, to the people who live there, and to help build the last mile in scattered areas. We have this plan today, we're still helping these people. If it were certain that the private sector would also contribute to these scattered areas, it was as if the state should do nothing, we could decide together what the state could do for Estonia for 20 million. But it is clear that the private sector does not need to invest in the settlement area. Therefore, in order to save this plan, the idea that electricity can be delivered to rural areas at reasonable cost, this procurement is necessary. This procurement will result in one winner, who will do it within a reasonable time and with agreed amounts. You gave me 5,000 euros, for example. Maybe this example was valid yesterday, maybe it applies today, but it does not apply in this procurement. The procurement shall specify how much the connection fee may be charged to households located in white areas. It's all determined. Please don't scare people with these sums, it's not relevant right now!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U159	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! By sticking to the lyrics: you indicated that before the elections, there was going around and that even free broadband was allowed. In order not to remain in the air, I ask who they were, who made such promises. The local government leaders have complained that communication with you disappeared somewhere in early September. However, you were expected to know the interest of the communications companies even before the local elections. Why didn't you have the courage to deliver this message before the election?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U160	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U161	I don't know what business plans are. Yeah, Telia made a press release, I don't exactly remember, I guess, in September, but I found out about Elektrilev's plans later. I was approached by Olav Harjo, under the leadership of the local government union, and said that there were such plans. I contacted the electrical surge to find out what was going on. They didn't come to inform me. Thank God I got in touch, and it started to clear up. I don't see local government leaders every day. My last meeting with the local government leaders was, I think, in May, when there was a meeting of the local government union in Tallinn, where I spoke about the idea that I was going to develop a measure and have such plans. It can't be said that all the expenses were already made. Well, they weren't made in two months! There were no weekly meetings with the local government leaders, where I would have suddenly disappeared. It's not right, it's a false accusation. I didn't go anywhere, and there hasn't been any meeting requests I would have refused. Yes, I wanted to understand whether the plans that Elektrilevi or Telia talked about were real, or whether there was just market intimidation. It took some time to figure it out, yes. But the election has nothing to do with this. I honestly, Andres, honestly, completely honestly thought that was good news. I would have liked to go out with it before the election, but I wasn't sure it was all the way it was supposed to be. Honestly. I am completely puzzled by this reaction, which has come mainly from one media channel, and the misleading headlines, where it is written in my picture that I am taking money from the rural people. It's slander, it's pure slander! I've never promised rural people money, I've promised fast internet, and that's what they get. That's what I'm working for. If necessary, I will follow market trends and make decisions, bearing in mind that this objective will be met. Absolutely sincere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U162	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U163	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! It has begun to seem to me from these answers, especially from what you told Artur and now that the construction of this network is like a religious matter. You believed that this previous local government plan, as you emphasised, was a very good one. But here's a little rock in that cabbage garden. It is extremely expensive to set up a network in a distributed area; it is not a profitable activity. There is really nothing to cheer about the productivity and profits that we can expect from it. It seems to me that this new plan, too, is more of a religious matter. Can we still build such great things on faith?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U164	We can only be sure of what happened yesterday or a minute ago. What happens tomorrow or in a minute, we don't know. But what's your plan? What would be a better plan to ensure that people have a high-speed internet connection with 20 million out-of-town areas? If you have a much better plan that you believe more in, I'm ready to listen.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U165	Thank you, Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. The heirs do not want to give a speech. Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U166	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I also came here to confess myself, to be quite honest, because I admit that both I and some of my colleagues here in the Riigikogu, Andres Metsoja, I see sitting here, and I also see Erki Savisaart as the representative of the third party of the coalition's third partner, and we have really done everything in several years to make sure that this very big problem, which is in Estonian society and which I would call the digital divide, is eliminated, or that at least it will not get worse and will not be an obstacle to the further development of our society. I want to recall a situation where we were about two and a half years ago. When the coalition worked under the leadership of the Reform Party, we were told that every dump doesn't need the Internet. They also said people don't even want to get on the Internet. It was a real situation when I started working with Andres and other colleagues. I can tell it hasn't been an easy job. It may not always look like this, but we've been working really hard to change thinking and thinking. Of course, I have personally visited several municipalities and asked for their help to break this thinking and prove that people need the Internet, that there is life in the country, and even electricity is in some places. So I'm guilty, yeah! I am so sorry that I have been personally involved in this work. This can be confirmed by Erki and, I think, Andres, who have all advocated this idea here. There was a statement that Urve Palo and his partymates were walking around Estonia, and there was no one else there, that it was a sort of party thing. That's not true. I am very pleased that this Internet theme has been an over-party matter. We have run it by consensus here and forgotten about any political party policy. I mean, everything's fine. I don't even know who the big deal is. Rather, I have the impression that one particular media publication has a bigger problem than all the other parties. On 6 November there was a big meeting with the people of the municipalities on the initiative of the support groups. After all, this meeting also made it clear that the municipalities did not have a categorical problem with this new plan. Of course, they also drew attention to our support groups have led to a number of threats or things that need to be addressed in order for this project to succeed. But local governments have a constructive working mood. So I wouldn't really panic here. The situation is still completely under control, at least in my opinion. If they let you keep working normally, we'll be able to handle this project. So I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps to participate more in the discussions and the work that we have been doing here all the time, through the Broadband Support Group. At all meetings also in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, we have all been present, and Olav Harjo, mentioned earlier, whose many municipalities have hired to carry these digital projects, has been present at these meetings. It can't be said that someone has been deliberately held in some kind of intel lockup and that there's been some sort of secret activity somewhere. That certainly hasn't been the case. There's one more thing I want to clear up. Yeah, well, he used to talk about online service all the time. We are actually talking about building a network, and the Internet service could start offering on this network all the people who want to. It's important. Today we are also working in support groups on how to open the Estonian communications network to competition in the first place, so that these networks, which are "closed," are also open to competition. So once again, peace, peace. I call for the conflict between parties to be overcome and, rather, for Urve Palo to help make this project work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U167	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U168	It's been a very interesting night. A few questions ago, there was this exchange of words that made my ears sound like a forehead. [[Slaps his hands.]] It keeps ringing right here. (Shows hands on the ears.) Then came Minister Palo and put him again... (Punches his fist in the palm of his hand.) So this bang keeps ringing. (Replays hands on ears.) First, I try to understand the facts. I'm going to open a website like www.electricalev.ee. It says here that the chairman of the board is Jaanus Tiisvend, who was also at the meeting on 6 November. I look at their contacts: legal information, Elektrilevi OÜ, registry code da-da-da-da-daa. They have put up their press release on readiness on 27 October. We submitted an inquiry on 25 October and on 24 October there was already a scandal in the media that the Minister had decided in favour of Elektrilev. There are so many contradictions here, which also came out during the Minister's mandate today, that I kind of don't know who to believe or what to believe. I call on the Minister to understand the other aspect of communication and administration. The reason we're saying this today is because it's important how things are done. The government has continued to pursue the major objective of the previous government to carry out an administrative-territorial reform aimed at the emergence of larger and more capable municipalities, who could solve problems themselves and perhaps also find opportunities for co-financing. Unfortunately, there was no administrative reform that would have allowed the municipalities to proceed autonomously. Now they put their backs together, it was like the hope that they would really take a loan, and the government would give more money. But then it turns out, no, we've somehow misunderstood everything. How is that possible? It's like some big, big, big error. This problem is very easily solved by clear speeches, not the way it was today: bang! And a dot, bang! and the point, but the content didn't come from anywhere. This is where it gets stuck. I wouldn't attack one or another media publication. We have seen quite many times in this life that there is another media publication that does not want to take one or another position in relation to one political party. I don't think that's an argument. The argument is whether or not we want to communicate. I liked the meeting on 6 November in the sense that the municipalities were really open-minded. Finally, it doesn't matter who delivers this cable, but the problem is that no one can guarantee that if they now give up this opportunity to deliver the cable themselves, this bigger company will. Secondly, of course, this question remained as to what happens to the expenditure paid. I object to the Minister: the municipalities came to help. At this very meeting of 6 November, representatives of the villages of Anija rural municipality said that they also came to help, went home and went home and did explaining work, collected statements from people. All of them together asked the Minister: 'But what if you want to get the municipalities to help the following projects, can we trust you? ' That's the kind of detail that gets so big as a domino effect. We must not allow mistrust to arise between different national authorities. The local government is also a representative of the state! We can't screw each other. Seriously, because we're already struggling with the distrust of politicians. It's because we don't know how to communicate, we don't know how to communicate. Please, let's get this over with, so there's a point on the Internet, because otherwise there's nothing polite about the Internet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U169	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U170	Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been thinking, based on this story, you could write a little story about how three friends went fishing. Erki, Tanel and I went and sat down by the river. At one point it seemed that there was no fish, we pulled it off. What was supposed to be on that end was a big fish, that's the broadband network. This expectation has indeed come from life itself and the needs of humans. But actually, this story isn't over. We've got hooks in again, we're gonna sit happily, just those catchers maybe a little more. True, fishing is always a lucky thing, whether it bites or not. I guess from this hall, from this remote point of view, I also have to say, as President of the Member of Parliament and of the Broadband Support Group, that it is not really clear until the end. Well, it's clear that it went a little bad with the local governments. In this sense, it was bad that we MEPs also did this work every day in this key to show those interested, to show that there are people in the counties who want a high-quality data connection. I also contacted a number of former colleagues from among the leaders of local governments and local governments, and I encouraged this project to come along. True, after that, I will no longer be looked at as a typical politician with a very high level of trust, because, well, it always went the way it always was. That's a bad sign. But that's what I've been trying to overcome with explanations. Indeed, in the first plan, which we had in the support group with Olav Harjo, there was a clear landmark called Elektrilevi, a single solution across Estonia, a good quality, a uniformly managed, operator-neutral network. It was our first ambition. Unfortunately, this did not materialise at the time, because one year later, Elektrilevi realised that it was probably reasonable to come to the market. As Minister of Urve Palol, I think it is quite reasonable to take this information into account and actually look at these plans together. But I still have a very clear proposal from this remote control for the Ministry. It would be very reasonable to base the work done by the municipalities on putting together a new procurement. There is no point in talking about previous funding models, but we must not simply reject this initiative, especially in the situation where we need the database that has been put together. Indeed, this amount of money is not large. We can measure a lot of things in money, time or information, but the material that's put together has to get into that procurement. If this material is not used by the Ministry, then the question arises as to how it will get there as one of the categories under assessment. What is also happening on Facebook, in the margins of social media, that these digiTe and digiMaid are being closed everywhere, does not really make this project more beautiful for anyone, but rather a little scarier. Here I ask you to find a solution. I am also very humbly asking for the pace to be maintained, especially in white areas, in the announcement of a procurement, because with this coalition it might otherwise be that there was a beautiful great will, a so-called nice fishing trip, but perhaps we will not all leave that river together as friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U171	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U172	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not gonna tell you a long story about how we went fishing and what the weather was that day. However, we were in a situation where it was said that it was impossible, it would require public money of 400 million, at least, and even then it is not quite certain that this rapid connection will reach everywhere. From there we were able to find one of the Euro Directives that had not been ratified and which were able to be adopted, which said that new infrastructures must be cross-used and optics must be added. We have made a new draft which said that existing infrastructure can also be cross-used and optics can be added. In this way, these millions began to fall away quietly, and the whole project and the achievement of this goal became more favourable to the taxpayer. We still have the same goal: fast connection, I even say optical cable to every home and every company. Optical precisely because mobile solutions are good, but if we have a fixed location, then there is a better fixed connection, mobile connections are suitable for those who move. That's where we've moved on. We went into this county plan. It really was the feeling that in this two years we could get three or four counties done or at least work started, and the way in which the rest of these counties will be covered will depend on the priorities of the next government. Today's plan looks like we're pushing this ball to move, really, it's rolling for five years, but in this five-year period and with 20 million euros of public money, all of Estonia will be covered. It's an awesome result. We have achieved a 20-fold reduction in the initial price, involving private money and also releasing local authorities from unnecessary obligations. Of course, it's a good thing the municipalities came to help. Without them, we wouldn't be where we are today. Surely we will find a way to evaluate this initiative. Exactly how time tells. Of course, there are many dangers and stumps behind this project. I hope that we will all see to it together that both Telia and Elektrilevi make their investments. Telia has promised all her clients a faster connection. I suggest all clients of Telia ask when this connection will reach her, when she will actually get it. I'll mention a few more balls that were thrown into the air. First of all, did the municipalities come to the aid of the State or of their own people to help them get this connection? Indeed, this need is great in these rural areas, as well as in urban areas where private businesses have not, for some reason, gone. I can also give examples from Tallinn. There are very good connections in Tallinn in Lasnamäe and Mustamäe, but there are no connections in Pirita, Nõmme or in many places near Tallinn. These places also need to be connected quickly in the same way as scattered areas. As regards the capacity of the municipalities and the administrative reform, I would still recommend that you look at the changes that have been made here. In addition to the administrative-territorial reform, the municipal income base has been restored since the new year and they have been provided with additional resources along with new tasks. We certainly cannot accept that the administrative reform has been limited to drawing a map in the last year. Finally, the light will come in any case. We hope that it will reach some places as soon as next year, but by 2022 or 2023 at the latest it should be in every Estonian home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U173	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests for speech, nor does the minister have any more requests. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U174	The next question is submitted by Riigikogu members Jaak Madison, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Uno Kaskpeit, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild. On behalf of the heirs, Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U175	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister! Colleagues, as many of you are still in this Chamber! Our inquiry concerns hunting tourism and hunting of feathered game in Estonia. We have heard a lot about the media in recent years, and we have also seen on television, that Estonia has become a mass hunter in Europe, which has allowed even more migratory migratory birds. Hunting is perfectly normal, it has been done in Estonia for thousands of years, but no hunter has ever killed in Estonia just for fun. Everything that's been hunted has been consumed. But now we see how hundreds, thousands, and tens of thousands of people are not sure of the final number of migratory birds being slaughtered and left lying around, rotting, polluting nature. It's the kind of thing that goes against a lot of people, and very rightly so. Of course, migratory birds cause great damage to farmers, their numbers have grown year after year, as migration routes have moved more to this area than to western Europe, where there is still untouched nature, forest and water. All the more reason to come here is for hunters who take hunting as entertainment. Like I said, it hurts a lot of people's sense of justice. Especially this year, there has been a lot of talk about this in the media. I would ask the Minister for the Environment for answers to our questions. In terms of time savings, I'm not going to read them. I ask the Minister to read these questions himself before he answers them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U176	Thank you. Let's hope the Minister starts reading the answers. Minister of the Environment Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U177	Honorable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Indeed, if I may, I will also read the questions because they are not long and there are only four in total. But first of all, as an introduction to the speaker's speech, we have learned a case this autumn when a foreign hunter published on his website pictures on which hunters posed with a large harvest. According to the picture, it was geese and gooses. We know that the photos were hung up for the purpose of promoting hunting tourism, but we do not know where these pictures were taken and how many days and how many people were caught. There is also a lack of data to ensure that the catches released are left lying around or not harvested, as you mention in the text of your inquiry. Considering that such hunting hurts many people's sense of justice, such showy pursuits in the public media are completely deplorable and regrettable. However, I would point out that although the heir spoke about the rotting bodies of birds, which are tens of thousands, there has been no confirmation of this claim in Estonia. But now specific questions. Question one: '2013. The Hunting Act, which was renewed in 1996, gave landowners unlimited authority to hunt small wild boars in their own country. From 2013 the wild game also includes hunting birds. Has this change justified itself? Why are hunting birds not included in a separate game category? ' The Hunting Act really distinguishes between small and large wild boars, this distinction has been in force in Estonia for over half a century on the basis of different hunting laws. Such differentiation cannot be political or arbitrary, but is primarily based on the impact of hunting on a particular game species. Wild game, the main cause of death of which is hunting, is considered to be large game. Their yacht is generally more accurately regulated. This includes large predators, large cloven-hoofed and grey seal. The main cause of the death of small game is not hunting, but the weather, diseases, predators, and many other factors. If the impact of these factors on the abundance of some small game is too low, they will also be subject to restrictions on hunting. If they recover, these restrictions will be reduced. When imposing restrictions, the introduction of a daily standard for hunting game is generally avoided, as this is the most difficult limit to control. Rather, hunting time is reduced and hunting methods reduced. If necessary, hunting shall be stopped until abundance recovers. Of course, these restrictions apply both to the landowner and to the user of the hunting area. Although the main cause of the death of small game is not hunting, the number of small game hunted is one of the important indicators for game surveillance, reflecting the status of the population. Everyone can go to the website of the Environment Agency and consult the data provided there for years. The hunting of migratory waterfowls is also increasing with the rise in numbers and vice versa. It's obvious we can't put an observer on the hunt for every hunter. All hunting statistics are based on trust, and the country has no reason not to trust hunters. Past experience, both in our countries and in other countries, shows that any introduction of day-limitation reduces the reliability of the data provided. For the above reasons, hunting birds are always classified as small game. Landowners were indeed granted the right to hunt small game in their own country by the hunting law that came into force in 2013, like the so-called old Europe. This was one of the biggest categories of compromises in amending the law. The second question: 'Why is there no statutory ceiling for hunting feathered game? ' The majority of the populations of feathered game, in particular geese and lagomorphs, and the number of damage caused by them are on a rapid growth trend, as the representative of the rapporteur mentioned in his speech. All kinds of regulation and evaluation are primarily based on the state of the species. More than 12,000 waterbirds are currently hunted in Estonia in one hunting season, less than 4800 of which are geese and lagoons. Considering the number of birds that stop migrating in Estonia, about one million geese and lagoons, the number of birds hunted is less than 0.5% of the number of birds staying here. For every hunter who hunts in Estonia during the year, for all, both his own and his strangers, less than one water bird is hunted a year. In comparison, over half a million waterbirds are hunted annually in Finland. All regulations which the law lays down must be justified. In order to establish the maximum level of hunting for hunting birds, sufficient justification has probably not been provided so far. Question 3: "Doesn't the Ministry of the Environment also consider it reasonable to set a maximum limit for the hunting of birds on the basis of a specific permit by issuing each hunting permit? 'The hunting permits are not issued by the Ministry of the Environment, hunting permits for both large and small game hunting are issued by the user of the hunting area. In the case of large predators, this is done on the basis of the decision of the Environmental Board, with large cloven-hoofed species based on the proposals of the hunting councils and small game species based on the status of the species by region. The country monitors the wider picture and either limits or relaxes hunting rules according to the condition of the particular species, changing the methods of hunting allowed, hunting times and adding species to the list of wild game or considering them out of it. It is very easy to bypass the numerical norm of hunting for wild boars and it is very difficult to control in nature. We consider it reasonable to stick to the proven working regulations in practice. Question 4: How has this issue been resolved in other EU Member States, especially in our neighbouring countries, Latvia, Lithuania and Finland? ' In the Member States of the European Union, hunting is a landowner's right. The exceptions here are only made for large wild boars, and landowners in our definition of large game hunting must meet in the region. As far as we know, Latvia, Lithuania, Finland or any of our neighbouring countries do not have any quantitative restrictions or specific categories of feathered game. In Finland, there is a quantitative restriction on the hunting of wild boars, tedre and lanterns because of their lack of numbers, but according to the Finns themselves, this regulation is not working well and they are looking for better solutions. However, in Finland and some other nearby countries, every hunter has the right to hunt on water bodies in the country, which provides an additional opportunity to hunt water birds. In Estonia, hunters do not have the opportunity to hunt water bodies on the water bodies of the country, which are the sea and larger inland waters, where both land ownership and the border of the hunting area end. In some European countries, such as the Netherlands, limiting hunting as an important deterrent has led to a large increase in the number of geese and lagomorphs and the damage caused by them. There, as a number-restricting measure, these birds are caught by mass nets and then killed by gas. There are a number of countries where water birds are hunted during both spring and autumn migrations. One of these is our eastern neighbour, Russia. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U178	Questions for the Minister. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! I'm gonna open up our friendly conversation. Certain restrictions have been imposed on the hunting of small game and on hunting in general. But my question is about the jackal, who is still a foreign species. What is the Ministry's attitude toward their hunting? There are certain restrictions here, I daresay. What does the Ministry think? Is this animal so welcome to us, and do we have to adapt to this alien species here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U180	Thank you. The jackals are limited to the hunting season. This season was recently extended by a decree of the Minister for the Environment and the period during which hunting is not allowed was shortened. For jackals, I dare say the problem is that our hunters have no tradition of hunting them, no interest in them and no experience of hunting them. Rather, hunters themselves have not shown much interest or activity. As far as I know, that's why they've been hunted so little.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U181	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U182	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Your story was very interesting. I remember that for many years now, this issue of overhunting birds in coastal areas has been running through the press. So your sub-offices that have to control it don't want to work in that wet area. It is very interesting to hear from the press that this issue has been running through for several years, but you are saying that there is no problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U183	Thank you. I think such an accusation should be better founded. The experts are doing their job. It's easier to throw any claims in the media than to actually do the job. I'd still trust the experts. If there is specific information to the contrary that they have given false statements or misguided figures, we would be happy to take note of that information. But just bare-handedly accuse them that they wouldn't bother to do their job, I can't agree with that. I would simply like to make a comparison that the recommendation of the Environmental Agency for this year is to hunt in Estonia 7430 moose, geese and lagomorphs were hunted last year in total 4772. That's just what I said to make it better to sense the order of magnitude. A year before that, they were hunted 5240 and, in comparison, the Environmental Agency's recommendation is to hunt 19700 wild boars this year. When we're talking about massism, I think it's more about the same visual image distributed by the media. If, in the same way, a hunted elk, wild boars (in their case recommendation 7550) and wild boar were spread out to view, as the birds hunted have been seen on the pictures, these images would be much more shocking. Above all, there is the issue of hunting culture, ethics and aesthetics. I think that this is not so much a matter of mass, but of behaviour. Hunting tourism is certainly a source of revenue for many Estonians and many hunting societies, which helps them to cover their costs and is an important source of income for them, but on the other hand, it is important to discipline hunters so that they act in such a way that they do not displease people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U184	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U185	Thank you. I will, however, ask you more about these official figures. Hunters are given shooting music or what it's called. Probably from them, these figures have been taken. But is there any guarantee that they really do correspond to reality and that more animals will not be hunted? I've seen pictures of birds in the papers in the past. At the same time, I will quickly ask the second question because the jackals have come up. Why should there be any restrictions on hunting an alien species?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U186	Thank you. First of all, as far as birds are concerned, as I pointed out in previous answers, it is very difficult to control how many birds a day or a week hunt or how many birds are shot when people come together and hunt. I'm not a hunter myself, unfortunately, but the hunters have explained to me that it's not that easy to shoot many birds out of one raft at a time, for obvious reasons. It is considerably more effective to limit the length of the hunting season and the means of hunting. It's easier to control. Whether someone shot one bird or two birds and gave another bird to a hunting companion when they come to check is more difficult to keep records. But when we see that there is too much hunting going on somewhere, and we are convinced of it, it is more reasonable to limit hunting time and ways, as many things have been done in Estonia, for example, to use whistles for decoying. However, as the heirs themselves pointed out in their speech, there is another side to the matter. The other side is angry farmers who would like to be hunted much more. There's a balance somewhere. We're ready to discuss whether this thing is in balance right now. I'm sure you'll have to involve experts in the field here. As far as jackals are concerned, the expert estimate is that since the jackal has arrived in Estonia on its own, on its own, naturally, he has not been brought in by people, he is considered to be our native species, not an alien species. [[Shout from the hall.]] It is precisely because he has not come here as a result of human activity, such as Mink, and that is why different rules apply to him.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-20_U187	There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. I will close this item. Free mike. Started. Finished. Closure of the sitting at 19.55 p.m.
