ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. This is the beginning of the second working week of the V plenary session. All drafts and enquiries are welcome. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U2	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party, I will discuss the inquiry with Urve Palole, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, about the new brand of Estonia and the costs associated with this project. We learned last Friday that the promotional materials costing nearly 200,000 euros should begin to introduce Estonia to the world. However, they have already received many, say, eloquent names, such as a vomity hedgehog, etc. This so-called toolbox has received acute criticism and raised the question of whether the EAS brand search has gone wrong again. We therefore have a number of questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U3	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U4	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu today gives three draft decisions to parliamentary proceedings relating to changes in our foreign delegations due to the change of government. All three draft decisions have been submitted on the amendments proposed by the political groups of the Riigikogu to the Commission and to which they have requested the approval of the Riigikogu. These drafts are the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe', the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia' and the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U5	Three drafts and one inquiry shall be dealt with in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. There's a message before the presence check. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be an e-Estonian support group's start-up meeting in the Chamber, convened by Mr Tanel Talve. Incoming check, please! 92 members of the Riigikogu are present, there is no 9. Adoption of the agenda. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the agenda for the second working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There were 90 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, 2 abstentions and no one opposed it. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U6	The first item on our agenda is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Artur Talvik, Andres Herkel, Ain Lutsepp, Monika Haukanõm, Jüri Adams, Andres Ammas, Külliki Kübarsepp and Krista Aru. Arthur Talvik, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U7	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, a month ago, when there was a major national question, the Rail Baltic debate, the Free Party Group also asked the Prime Minister for an inquiry. That's to make sure he's figured out what this is all about. But in the meantime, many interested people, activists, have had many or many additional questions. So there could be a hundred questions in this question for me. In our Free Party, we have placed particular emphasis on transparency of administration and on how a major object such as Rail Baltic, which affects our lives in social, environmental and any other aspect, for example economically, can still be built without general public debate. There are very serious and unanswered questions. While this project is being attempted to show propagandistically very well, its true nuances are not described. Even the initial tasks of many studies and studies themselves have not been made public, so the wider public has not received a clear picture of what is involved, what are the risks involved, etc. We could talk about all sorts of things here. Where does the goods that will be transported by this railroad come from? Why is there a need for two-tier railroads if we can be connected to Europe by the existing railroad, with a speed of 160 kilometres per hour, and we should not build huge amounts of bridges and other things? Why is this railroad planned to follow this route? Why are the stops far away from settlements and cities? Why are we talking about the so-called security aspect when one of the main sources of goods is known to be North-West Russia, while it is said 'propagandistically that we need this railroad to unhook our Russian railroad? Why does Estonia become almost the only country where two systems of railway are introduced? Our existing railroad is known to be of one size and planned for Rail Baltic in the second size. Jne, et cetera. There are many questions, but we have asked the Prime Minister to answer five questions. Let's hope you ask the other hundred questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U8	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U9	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, I thank you for this questioning and for the opportunity to perform for the first time in this genre here in the Riigikogu Chair! True, there are many questions, as said by the representative of the heirs. I guess I've got a lot of them, too. That is why it is good here in front of the honourable assembly to resolve these issues and try to give as concrete answers as possible. As I understand it, it is customary here for the respondent to read the question and then answer it. The first question: 'What is the financing scheme for RB and its other facilities and buildings and how does it relate to the national budgetary strategy in the long term? What is the annual maintenance cost of the Estonian section, which is covered by the state budget? " Already on the first question there are a number of questions together, I try to give them an answer. The cost of the entire 730 km section of Rail Baltic, the associated infrastructure and other facilities is estimated at 4.8 billion euros, of which the cost of the construction works on Estonian territory is 1.3 billion euros. Rail Baltic is part of the Trans-European Transport Core Network, which is part of the North Sea and Baltic Sea Corridor, and is due to be built by 2030. Since it is a project of common European interest which, apart from having a potential value for the Member State concerned, is necessary to improve transport flows between Member States, it fulfils the conditions set out in Regulation 1315/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council in its proposed form, meaning that the establishment of Rail Baltic will be co-financed by the Connecting Europe Facility under this Regulation in 2013. Rail Baltic is planned to finance the European Union's two funding periods. From 2014 to 2020 the European Commission had granted two joint applications from the Baltic States for the development of Rail Baltic by the end of 2016, i.e. last year, with a total volume of almost EUR 800 million. The total amount of support granted by the current decisions for activities supported on the territory of Estonia is 186 million euros. The national self-financing rate is on average 19% of the costs. In Estonia, the activities financed by these funds include not only research and the technical design of the Estonian railway route, but also the construction of the railway body and special level junctions, as well as the construction of Pärnu and Ülemiste passenger terminals and the construction of a tram road between Tallinn Airport and Ülemiste terminal. These projects will be implemented by the end of 2020. In 2021, the next financing period for the European Union will begin, with initial budgetary planning initiated at the level of the European Commission and the Member States. On the basis of the preliminary information, the three Baltic States expect the Connecting Europe Facility to continue on a similar basis to the current ones (it is known as 19%) and are expected to apply for support to continue the construction of Rail Baltic. According to previous consultations, the European Commission's Directorate-General for Mobility and Transport assumes that the creation of the missing elements of the trans-European transport network will also be supported during the new funding period. The resources planned for the establishment of Rail Baltic in the country's budget strategy for the period 2017 to 2020 are coordinated with the timetable and volume of work and the financing agreements for the Connecting Europe Facility projects of a total amount of EUR 258.5 million. In addition to the financing of the Connecting Europe Facility, the budget strategy provides for national co-financing (circa EUR 40 million) and non-eligible value added tax (circa EUR 32.5 million). The renewal of the national budgetary strategy in spring 2017 will also take into account the needs of 2021. Based on preliminary studies, Rail Baltic's maintenance costs have been estimated at around EUR 50000 per km/year. This means that the maintenance costs of the section of railway in Estonia's territory are ten million euros per year. According to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council and the Estonian Railway Act, railway undertakings and infrastructure managers conclude contracts for the use of railway infrastructure, including charges for the use of railway infrastructure in accordance with the methodology established. Consequently, railway undertakings pay for the use of railway infrastructure. According to the current feasibility and cost-benefit analysis of Rail Baltic, carried out in 2011, by AECOM, the international consultancy firm will cover the revenues from user charges if the expected volumes of freight and passenger transport are realised and a competitive rate of charge is established, as well as maintenance costs for rail. So there is no need to allocate additional resources from the state budget for the maintenance of Rail Baltic, we hope. It can be assumed that when a new rail passenger transport is launched, passenger transport will continue to be subsidised according to the same principles as it is now. It is important that the rate of charge is uniform throughout the route and that the route is managed in the Baltic States as a whole, so that railway maintenance can be financed on a uniform basis throughout the journey. At times, there is a widespread view that the revenue from charges for the use of rail traffic is not sufficient to cover the maintenance costs of Rail Baltic. At present, there is no objective basis for saying so. Should such a situation arise, solutions will be decided in cooperation with all the parties involved in the project, i.e. the three Baltic States. All current forecasts will be updated on the basis of updated data in a cost-benefit analysis of Rail Baltic in the second quarter of 2017, carried out by Ernst & Young, an international audit firm. The second question: Is and how does RB amplify the existing rail network? Today, RB officials say that the old Pärnu route must be picked up, but what is the official government plan and the long-term plan for the entire railway network as a whole? ' First of all, Rail Baltic is planned as a fast electrified railway linking Finland and the Baltic States on the north-south axis to the existing European railway network, which is 1435 millimetres in standard width. The current railways of both Estonia and the other countries are 1520 millimetres wide, which is an isolated railway network in European terms. In Estonia, railways with both rail gauges will form a single network in the future, as the Rail Baltic project will establish contact points for connecting railway lines with two widths and for connecting people and/or reloading goods. Ülemiste and Pärnu station are designed for passengers in Estonia, but the area of Muuga harbour for freight transport and the freight terminal is expected to be Soodevahe in Harjumaa Rae rural municipality and the freight terminal in Pärnu. Essentially, this is the creation of a new rail freight corridor. The freight terminal planned for the rest of the world should, in the best possible way, create opportunities for the transhipment of goods transported on the current 1520 mm and 1435 mm railway. For passengers, Ülemiste and Pärnu stations operate as interconnection points for two widths, and Riga and Kaunas railway stations in Lithuania are intended for this purpose in Latvia. The construction of Rail Baltic is also important from the point of view of domestic passenger transport, for example, the connection of Rapla-Pärnu will be considerably faster than before. Now question three. I am really sorry, but the questions are very substantive and the answers are therefore long. I'm sure we can continue to talk during the discussion and clarify everything. I see that honourable members of the Riigikogu have some questions. The third question is very important: 'What is the cost-effectiveness of the project (including the period) and the business model and what are the options for changing it if inappropriate circumstances arise? ' The European Union's support for infrastructure objects is possible in cases where the Member States of the project do not manage to finance the construction of an infrastructure object from their own resources and cannot be expected from the private sector due to a long pay-back period. Consequently, the economic impact of an infrastructure object is more important than its sustainability. Financially, the owner of the object must be able to maintain the infrastructure. Rail maintenance is paid by consumers on the basis of the use of infrastructure. The reasons for Rail Baltic's economic profitability are based on the feasibility and cost-benefit analysis of AECOM, which is the basis for the European Commission's financing decisions. In the second quarter of 2017, a cost-benefit analysis of the route will be completed and, as stated above, Ernst & Young will do so. I would also say, in answer to the third question, that, above all, the benefits for rail society are making the time savings from a fast connection and, when it comes to passenger and freight transport, certainly positive externalities, such as the benefits of reducing accidents, etc., as well as the maintenance or creation of jobs during construction. It is believed that a total of 12000 jobs will be needed during construction, of which around 3000 will be required in Estonia. Rail Baltic's business model is based on the fact that it is built as a mixed railway, allowing it to travel on both passenger and freight trains. Railway maintenance is carried out by way of user charges, as is the case for existing railways. Charges are received from both freight and passenger transport operators. The analysis carried out considers that, in both cases, transport by rail will be carried out primarily from the road. Now the fourth question, which concerns why the project is not managed transparently: 'When will all RB related documents, analyses (economic, social, environmental, etc.), studies and their initial tasks be made public? ' The accusations that Rail Baltic planning would have been opaque are not really justified. The project's planning page, which is available on the Internet at the Railbaltic page. information, feasibility and cost-benefit analyses are available as well as large-scale research on natural and archaeological values, as well as cultural heritage studies, a strategic environmental impact assessment report and materials from three county plans that are very important to us. According to the Planning Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2015, there have been public statements of the Regional Planning and Strategic Environmental Assessment Report in three relevant counties and 76 public consultations involving more than 4000 people. The initial tasks of studies already carried out and carried out are also available to the public, as these studies have been carried out in the form of public procurement, and the documentation can be downloaded from the Estonian Public Procurement Register at least even after the award of the contract or the execution of the works. Another question is that responsibility has not been clearly shared between the three countries: 'It is now completely incomprehensible who is responsible for the success or failure of the project. Will RBs be managed jointly by the three Baltic States or individually on their territory? How is responsibility allocated? ' To answer the fifth question, let me say that the responsibility between the three Baltic States and the specific bodies involved in the construction of Rail Baltic has been clearly developed for both the preparation and construction period of the project, largely before the first joint application was submitted for support from the Connecting Europe Facility. In autumn 2014, RB Rail AS, a joint venture with equal participation of the three Baltic States, was also established. Estonia is represented as the shareholder of the company OÜ Rail Baltic Estonia, whose sole owner is the Republic of Estonia, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications on behalf of the Republic of Estonia. I kindly agree to answer questions from honourable members of the Riigikogu. I'll try to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U10	This is also provided for by the Home and Working Procedures Act. This is where the questions come from. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U11	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I am not asking you whether, as a compromise, it would be possible to carry the Rail Baltic route through Viljandi, although I might like it the most. I'm asking when this route is finally gonna work out. On 20 November 2014, the Cabinet decided to proceed with some sort of route option. I myself was the chair of the Riigikogu Rail Baltic Support Group at this office. The route to Pärnumaa and Raplamaa was agreed, and the choice of the route to Harjumaa was left open. After this discussion, as far as I know, no more route choices have been discussed at the office level, but in the meantime the route has changed on the proposal of the county governor in both Pärnu and Raplamaa. When will the government finally decide on this path? After all, this is the basis of everything, whether or not this project is happening at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U12	Thank you. In general, the route, let's say, is set within the county boundaries. You said you didn't ask if it was going through Viljandi, but theoretically, this route could go through another town and county. In fact, the first step in setting this route was at the end of September 2011, more specifically on 22 September, when the three Baltic Prime Ministers decided by signing the memorandum that this route would come to Tallinn in the direction of Pärnu Riga. As I said in my reply, there are currently no three county plans in place, as far as I know. They have been adopted and will be published in all three counties: Harjumaa, Raplamaa and Pärnu County. After that, you can set the path straight. I certainly don't want to give you the wrong idea here. I have also asked whether it is possible, in principle, to change the route within Estonia. It has been said that it could go through South-East and South-East Estonia. If that question comes up, I'll give you a more specific answer. But there is no such possibility in the context of this project.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U13	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U14	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! This morning, the media visited that already on January 31, the three Baltic States would like to sign the Rail Baltic Building Plan. It is worrying that the government will not discuss the matter until 26 January. After all, the Estonian Government should also be concerned that the Treaty provides for an exception for Lithuania, that it is possible for them to construct a route between Kaunas-Vilnius and that the European Union's resources are also available for this purpose. Why has this become so, and why has the Estonian Government not turned to the relevant institutions to reconstruct the route on the Tartu route in accordance with new requirements, for example? This choice of route would seem more logical in terms of population location and usage patterns.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U15	Thank you. First of all, you said that on 26 January the office was discussing and, after that, three Baltic Prime Ministers, if my memory is not cheating on me, then I think the 30th of January should really be Tuesday going to sign the joint document or memorandum once again. It's not like that document suddenly appeared from somewhere. The current government discussed Rail Baltic for the first time in a broad-based way on 8 December. The government took office on 23 November, so it was on the table of the Cabinet for the first time in two or three weeks. After that, on 9 December, the coalition, represented by the Prime Minister, really signed the joint memorandum of the three Baltic Prime Ministers, which was signed in the city of Riga. As far as financing of other railway sectors is concerned, I certainly do not agree with this as if it had somehow been left out of our attention. On the contrary, we have discussed with the employees of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure both the direction of Narva and the direction of Tallinn Tartu. It is no secret that we have also discussed the possibility of the direction of Tallinn-Hapsalu and, let us say, the first stage that could take place. So, next to Rail Baltic, other connections or connections between other cities have certainly not been forgotten. If you ask when this funding could take place, it is currently agreed that the funding period for this construction will be 2019 to 2025. True, the most difficult thing is, as I said in my replies, that if the percentage of funding in the next funding period of the European Union is changed, then, I am afraid, no Baltic State has taken into account. It has been taken into account that the share will remain at 19%, although it has not been agreed that it will be 19% in the next funding period. But this is definitely our request that this be the case since 2021.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U16	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U17	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You said that the accusations about the lack of transparency of the project have not been taken seriously, but it is the Centre Party that has given a great deal of substance to such suspicions. We all remember how critically critically the Centre Party has taken the form of Rail Baltic as it is now designed. After becoming a government, however, this position changed dramatically in a week or two. When astonished, many members of the Central Party announced that they had now been made aware of some secret government material. I remember the Prime Minister saying that in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. How can building a railroad be some kind of secret project? If these secret data are so good, shouldn't they be disclosed, and that might also have an impact...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U18	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U19	Thank you, good questioner! I certainly have not used such a sentence in the honourable Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs, such as for members of the Central Party Group or for members of any other political group, Rail Baltic material would have been classified. I absolutely do not support this statement as if there had been some kind of secret debate or agreement. On the contrary, the discussion of county planning is a public process in Estonia. The fact that the members of the Free Party asked about it today also helps to convey information. As the representative of the heirs said in his introduction, the Riigikogu's plenary session has also discussed the topic of Rail Baltic. Speaking of whether the Centre Party has opposed it or not, I think the Centre Party has been very strongly in favour of uniting Estonia. The Centre Party supports all kinds of investments and projects that contribute to economic growth. I believe that the rail community is important to society in this respect too, I would even say that it is more important for people than it is for political parties, that it is always borne out of the green thinking that I have supported from a low ground. This is not of minor importance to the Rail Baltic project. The next thing is not the least important either. For example, let's think for a moment about a 750-metre long freight train. When driving myself, I think, up to twice a week in the direction of the Estonians, I know very clearly what it means to travel between big trucks or trucks. The same 750-metre train would mean about 50 large trucks on this road to Tallinn. So road safety is also important. I think it's important to all of us. I said in my answers that we cannot only look at Rail Baltic from the Ülemiste to the Lithuanian-Polish border. I'd look at Rail Baltic very clearly within the country, too. Let's think about how quickly the city centre of Tallinn can be reached by bus, train or car in the centre of Pärnu. Rail Baltic must give you the opportunity from the centre of Tallinn... Is Ülemiste downtown or not? Let's say this has to give us a chance to travel from Ülemiste to Pärnu in 45 minutes. Let's look at it further: Tallinn Riga would be in two hours, Tallinn would be in Kaunas in three and a half hours. I think that these internal connections between Estonia and all the Baltic countries are also very important. Why support this project? Let me give you a few illustrations. If a resident of Tallinn wants to go to the Endla Theatre in Pärnu, one hour and ten minutes will be enough to arrive. If you want to go to the Riga Zoo to see the giraffe, two and a half hours is enough, and you are in Riga. If you want to go to a good basketball game, like the Kaunas Zalgiris game, three and a half hours is enough, but the car would take over eight hours. Well, these are the reasons why this project could go on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U20	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You really have a great opportunity to take Estonia out of the peripheral peripheral status when we are talking about the European Union. I mean both passenger transport and the possibility of creating an important transport corridor. I really like that you emphasized Via Baltica. There's 1,500 trucks a day. This poses a completely unacceptable risk to the lives and health of those who drive along this road. That is why I very much welcome your determination on this project. It is completely incomprehensible how expensive this project is for the people of Estonia. I said that it is actually EUR 250 per person, if we mean our own contribution. What is the European Union's contribution, however, and how important do you consider Europe's contribution to the promotion of the Estonian economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U22	Thank you. If I am not mistaken, there should be 213 kilometres of this route in Estonia, please correct me if I am wrong! The amount should be EUR 1.3 billion. In the case of such large purchases, it is impossible to say with an accuracy of one million, even ten million, but the share of our co-financing amounts to EUR 250 to 300 million. So in any case, this contribution and investment in the Estonian economy, I also mentioned the Circa 3000 jobs, of course, important. I also want to say something about Via Baltica. Rail Baltic does not mean, at least in my view, that we should give up Via Baltica or not pay attention to it for the next 25 years. On the contrary, I think that this needs to be addressed. Seriously, the so-called Scandinavian model, 2 + 1, where the third track is a pass-by path, could also be on the table. Well, the specialists will have to do the math, and we'll see how this is financially possible. But railway traffic should certainly not stop Via Baltica's ideas, which have been under discussion for the last 25 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U23	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! You said that when this route was completed, it would be managed jointly. My question is, how exactly is this going to happen? From the current draft contract we learn that the coordinator is RB Rail AS, whose main activity is railway design, construction and marketing. When it's all ready and in service, what's going to happen? How are the responsibilities of the three countries divided? I don't understand that at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U25	Thank you. This isn't the end of the deal. That's right. If this project succeeds and Rail Baltic is ready in 2025, according to today's data, the two Baltic States will see the matter so that management can take place through a joint venture, but one Baltic State is not sure until the end of this. Discussions on this are still ongoing. The way I see it, when the joint venture comes, there are a lot of things to be held responsible for. First, the day-to-day operation and maintenance of the same railway. Secondly, it must be ensured that there are sufficient operators not only in passenger transport but also in freight transport. Well, that's the main job, isn't it? But, yeah, it's not settled until the end. I am going to say so much that, in fact, Rail Baltic is not just a matter for the three Baltic States. When I met the Prime Minister of the Republic of Finland, this came up as a second or third topic on his initiative. They also find it interesting and not only interesting, but also economically useful or necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U26	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U27	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! Over the years, Rail has shown some conflicting information about the Baltic route. At first, it was based on the principle that there will be no stops between Tallinn and Pärnu and Pärnu and Riga, and this route will be constructed in such a way as to disturb human settlement as little as possible. At some point, the idea was added that this route could still be used for local passenger transport, and that stops would be more than Estonia itself is betting on them. But if these stops are located somewhere in the wasteland, in the middle of forests and ceilings, they are not conveniently available to the local people. How do these two approaches fit together, and what is the position of the government before finalising the route?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U28	Thank you. That's a good question. I also think there is no point on the railroad if there is another stop in Riga when you sit on top. I don't think that really makes any sense. It has now been agreed that the amount I mentioned to Toomas Kivimägi is included in the cost of three stops in the 250-300 million which are intended for co-financing. These stops are Ülemiste, Rapla and Pärnu. At this stage of the project it is possible to add a maximum of 11 stops, i.e. if there are three, then eight more can be added. True, if we make one more stop or two, three or eight stops, that means extra money. I believe you now have a question of what this amount is about a stop. You are absolutely right that if we look at the route from Pärnu to Ikla, for example, we can see that it really goes a long way past many of the current rural municipalities or the new area that is to be created. The people in this area call them the last 30 kilometers that reach Iklan, the Olympic Way. This line goes, let's say so, by the land. But they say it's estimated that one stop costs 10 million. If you create more stops, other than the three that are included in the main project, the cost of the stop is estimated at 10 million. It's really hard to tell today if there's more stops. I think a serious analysis and debate could be carried out on this. If you can get on the train from Ülemiste, Rapla and Pärnu, should you be able to get on the train after Pärnu? A perfectly legitimate question. But it means, I think, good road network, as well as access to public transport. These questions have not been discussed. I have asked what it means to those people who are going through Rail Baltic near their home, how many forest roads, RMK roads or even larger roads, the roads will be closed or how much larger a circle will have to be done when crossing the railway. It is claimed that access is basically provided by existing roads, that the connection is very close, that it is not within decades or that it is interrupted at all. I asked when this plan was introduced in the government office, specifically about the municipalities of Häädemeeste and Saarde, because I know these forest roads pretty well. It seems to me that this too has been carefully analysed in this project. But yes, the short answer to you is that for three stops, I know eight more stops can be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U29	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Rail Baltic and Russia. It has once been claimed that Rail Baltic will permanently separate us from the Russian railway network. On the other hand, it has been argued that some volumes of goods are expected to be obtained from North-West Russia. Which statement is correct, and how do you feel about both of them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U31	Thank you. Well, I guess that's a pretty emotional sense of what he's connecting or who he's connecting. I deliberately brought in the Finnish idea or the Finnish Prime Minister's question about Rail Baltic. I think that, on the one hand, this railroad also means a better connection for the people of Scandinavia or Finland through the Baltic States. But he is connecting Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania with the Lithuanian-Polish border, and from there goods and people can move to Warsaw. The extent to which we are able to develop other railway routes is not, to a large extent, the internal level of decision-making in our own country. But as I answered Külliik's Hatter's question, I do not believe that Rail Baltic is rejecting the possibilities of other connections. To answer briefly, I say that it connects Estonia with Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U32	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U33	What is the reason for this confidence and your conviction that this money will come, that part will be just as big and so on?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U34	Good President! Good Prime Minister! The greatest concern, which is now widespread, is still economic risk. While we understand very well that Estonia's GDP is increasing during the construction period, bridge builders are getting jobs, soils are being brought together, etc., there is still no belief that it is precisely the quantities of goods that have been projected to move there. They could also move freely through Tartu and Valga. There's no belief that people want to drive this railroad. You just said he'd be great in three and a half hours to Kaunas. What about from there? Warsaw, for example, completed the construction of the Berlin railway in Warsaw and started the construction of the domestic railway. We pay for, by the way, the current rail infrastructure, as we know, because the goods are not moving.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U35	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U36	Thank you. First of all, the principle. I think I am not mistaken when I say that rail traffic is subsidised everywhere in the world, there are few countries that do not have this subsidy. That's one. I hope I understand the question correctly. I have asked that if in 2026 there are no passenger trains or freight trains on this railway, only butterflies fly there, but the railways need to be maintained, how much it will cost the Estonian taxpayer. I have been told that the sum per 213 km is EUR 10 million a year for the circa. In addition, what Mr Herkel asked about. I said that there was no final agreement on the Joint Undertaking's wage costs, staff costs, maintenance costs. These are all the costs that should arise when the worst-case scenario is triggered. It is hoped that this worst-case scenario will not come, that some passenger trains and freight trains will still be moving there, and that every train that moves there should reduce it by 10 million. You asked where is the certainty that this financing model is valid? I already said there's no fortress. Work is currently under way to ensure that this distribution is 81% and 19% for the next EU financing period. If this ratio becomes different, it should become apparent at the latest, I think, in the course of 2018, then, of course, we must come back to the project and discuss whether we will or will not hold up with this own contribution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U37	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U38	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! It is a pity that, because of your tight work schedule, you have not been able to follow the debate on a crucial national issue here in December, which our group has just organised on the subject of Rail Baltic. If you had done so, you would know that the figures you said in your report have been wiped out and dusted, the same 10 million have been mutilated to ridicule. The fact that this railroad quickly connects us with Europe is not true. It is not true that he connects us to Europe at all. He's gonna end up on the Lithuanian border! If any trade flows have been predicted there, these are completely charged figures. It will be impossible for us to hold a debate when we come back to the figures and arguments that do not suffer absolutely criticism. I have a question, too. On 31 January, there should be some next agreement at Prime Minister level, and the government will discuss it as an urgent matter next week. But the cost-benefit study isn't coming till summer. I think these things are in a bit of a shielded order. But my main question: what commitments will be made with this agreement, which is financially or politically binding on Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U39	Thank you. First of all, the government will not discuss this as an urgent matter, no way. As I said, in order to get an overview of such an important and substantial project, but I hope that also a project that would benefit Estonia, the government discussed it on 8 December, i.e. the circa 15 days after taking office. Now we're going to discuss this for the second time. Office meetings are not urgent. I don't have much experience, but I've seen them for a month and a half, and I can say that at some point they may even be very long-lasting. If there is a discussion, it will be held and sometimes the next session will continue. That was point one. Point two. You said this railroad wouldn't connect us to anything or anything. Is the railroad at the top starting? It's starting! Is there a stop in Pärnu? Yes! I've been told that this distance will be traveled in 45 minutes. There's a chance I've been lied to, but I don't believe it. The next thing I've been told, this railroad should go through the town of Riga. I've been asking how soon the Ülemiste can get to Riga. I've been told in two hours. Next question: how soon will it be to Kaunas? In three and a half hours. So it can't be said that it connects us to nothing, and there's not much speed. Having driven his own car to Kaunas, I think that seven or eight hours is right. That's right! The train only takes three and a half hours. You criticized that this $10 million was wrong and that this amount meant nothing. For a moment, think about where we can get these bills in Estonia. It's not like I came to this Riigikogu, looked at the ceiling in the White Hall, and I thought it might be 10 million. It's not like that! We're still calling somewhere, and the people who've been working on it every day have been doing some calculations. Really, they say it's the circum of 10 million. Whether it's a little bit this way or this way, it's very difficult to say, but we're talking about orders of magnitude. Now, from what I signed and what it means to Estonia. My principle has been that if I sign something on behalf of the Government of the Republic, I will at least bring it to the Government's office. I think it's right. I do not think that the Prime Minister has the right to sign on behalf of the Estonian state unless he has discussed this matter in the Government of the Republic, for example. This is also the reason why I am not taking this issue to the Government of the Republic as an urgent matter, but in a completely calm mind, as I did on 8 December. What does this signature mean? This means our attitude and position as to whether we want to move forward with Rail Baltic and whether we are willing to continue to contribute there. That's what it means.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U40	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Rail Baltic with its 213 km passes through both private and state countries. In December, the Land Office began negotiations with the owners of the lands of the Häädemeeste rural municipality on the route. If the land is sold from the owner or cut into half because the route simply passes through the centre, then I believe it is the responsibility of the State to compensate for the moral and economic damage that arises in a dignified way and at a reasonable price, not only on the basis of market prices, because perhaps there is no very high market price on the land between the forests of the Häädemeeste, and so that the amount would still be slightly higher than pocket money. How much funds are planned to compensate the land, and what methodology is used to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U42	Thank you. Surely the Forests of the Häädemeeste with their beautiful sand dunes are valuable. This sand dune wall begins in the city of Pärnu and goes out to Latvia. I owe you an answer on how much money is calculated for buying out these lands. I promise I'll find out tonight and let you know. I will try to make it known by telephone if a member of the Riigikogu allows it. How's that going to work out? I, too, think that this should develop through negotiations; the country should not use its power position.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U43	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In answer to Mr Helme's question, you said that this was not an urgent matter. But we read in business news that it's urgent. I quote Kadri Samson: 'Therefore, I would ask for coordination to be sent exceptionally within a short time limit. ' I'm not going to read it any further. The text of the agreement has therefore not yet been translated into Estonian, it is in English. So your answer wasn't quite accurate. However, I am going to go to a slightly different point with my question. In the early 1990s, I remember how all of Estonia and other Baltic states echoed the war cry 'Via Baltica! '. There is no Via Baltica to this day. What do we have now? We have two empty railway corridors: one towards Tartu, the other towards Pärnu. Rail Baltic basically means, as you said, building a new freight corridor...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U45	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U46	The question is very simple: where are the goods and passengers taken from these three corridors?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U47	Thank you. I very much agree with the introduction of this Via Baltica issue. I also remember discussions about Via Baltica, even among people of my generation. As I said earlier, I support the further construction of Via Baltica. In a sense, we can say that a certain part of Via Baltica has been made to some extent, such as the one that allows us not to drive into the city centre of Pärnu. If you are very punctual, you can say that Via Baltica should be such that you do not need to lower the speed below 90 kilometres per hour. Now you have to pick up 50 kilometers, then you can accelerate to 70, then go to 50 again, then 70 again and then 50 and then you're out of Pärnu. That there is no need to discuss the Via Baltica issue further, I have never heard of it in the current government. On the contrary, it has been discussed that this should be taken forward. The direction of Pärnu has been discussed. All the more so because we know that trucks or trucks are moving very hard there, and it is very dangerous for other road users. Let me get this straight: Martin Helme's question and my answer. I fully agree with Kadri Samson in this sense that no government can nap, of course the pace must be on. But as a matter of urgency, don't be afraid, nothing will happen. I mean, there's plenty of time until the end of January to prepare for all this. And it's being prepared, it's being thoroughly prepared. You're not gonna lose your commies or your dots, are you? I promise I won't. Where do these trade flows come from? It's our business, isn't it? We hope that we will also receive them from Scandinavia, people travelling by rail in the same way. I am thinking, of course, of Finland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, but why not also the citizens of our neighbour, the Russian Federation, who want to use Rail Baltic. They're all coming from this region, I don't think they're gonna be brought from anywhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U48	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is perhaps not so detailed, I would like to know your personal assessment. Have these feasibility studies taken into account the fact that this railway will be completed in 2025? Railways are likely to have several decades of life. As early as 2030, ships automatically controlled in the Baltic Sea are expected to travel, which will reduce freight transport costs by 30%. We're not talking about hyperloops here, but maybe you're just gonna fantasize a little bit and tell me if it's gonna affect the future of this railroad, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U50	I think everything that's going on in the Baltic Sea will, of course, have an impact. Can't say it doesn't. But when it comes to payback, it can be said that this is 30 years of circa planned, and during this period he should pay off. I have also tried to look at this matter of Rail Baltic at every turn, and I fully understand these questions and concerns. But as far as I am concerned, and on the basis of the sense I have had, I can say that from an economic point of view, it is worth bringing this investment into Estonian society and Estonia. This really gives us a connection to the other Baltic States and Europe, but also to a national community that is not insignificant. I've even asked how those hedgehog boys and foxes are, how they're gonna get over that railroad. They say there's no problem. The serious question is, of course, with large wild boars, but there had to be 26 eco-ducts, and there are also shorelines, where they can safely and hope to go safely, across the railroad. These are understandable questions, and they must be asked. But yes, as I replied to Artur Talvik, I think the greatest threat is to change the percentage of funding. If it changes radically, the situation will be completely different.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U51	Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Arthur Talvik, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U52	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Prime Minister! I have repeatedly enjoyed high-speed train travel in both Japan and China, where these trains are particularly fast, and also in Germany. It's really enjoyable fun. I still do not understand and the more I deal with this issue, the less I understand why this railway is being built in Estonia in this form and in this way. The Prime Minister said nicely that we can visit giraffes in Riga and drive to Kaunas in three and a half hours. My rhetorical question is, what am I doing in Kaunas, dear people? We know very well that the Poles have postponed the plan to establish a high-speed rail between Berlin and Warsaw, which means that they will not do so until 2030. So it is not right to talk that we can take the train to Berlin quickly. We know very well that goods do not travel more than 120 kilometres per hour by rail. We have a railroad connected to Europe, which is a little longer, but if we reached 120 kilometres per hour there, we would get all these mysterious goods from Riga and beyond very quickly, perhaps, I don't know, half an hour slower. There wouldn't be a problem. Estonia is a sea state. We have neglected our maritime affairs. Of course, as a positive point, I must say that the current government has taken up the maritime issue. Urve Tiidus, a colleague, pointed out that major changes are taking place in the maritime sector, such as the emergence of unmanned vessels which make maritime transport even cheaper. I must stress that transporting cargo by sea is already cheaper. If it gets another 30% cheaper, there will still be a lot of very well-founded questions as to why we need this railroad at all. The good Prime Minister talked nicely about how railroading is a nice green project. From my point of view, the greenest option is if we fix the existing railroad very well and follow it even if, for example, 160 kilometres per hour, we do not have to do it in two levels and we do not have to build the huge bridges that our children will have to maintain for their money in the future. I come back to the very important problem that there are so many or how many of them are there at all? The people involved in railway logistics talk much differently in conversations between themselves or face to face than our public propaganda, which advocates the construction of Rail Baltic. They also have a lot of serious questions. One of the main questions is how much it costs to maintain it. Certainly not 10 million, because due to the current lack of freight transport we are already paying more than 10 million to support existing railways. There are a lot of questions. People's movements have also begun, which can become very large. People have not been made clear what it is and it has not been made clear precisely the economic risks that could harm our children and grandchildren in the future. It is also unclear why Estonia, which has always adopted very modern solutions, has chosen such a solution in the last century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U53	Martin Helme, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U54	Dear Speaker! Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I am terribly sad to say that we live in a country where those who rule imagine that all the rest of the people wake up every morning with total memory loss. Because the figures that we have been offered here once again, again, again and again, as I have already said in the introduction to my question, have been repeatedly beaten to shreds and dust. I understand the Prime Minister doesn't look at the ceiling, doesn't make up the bill. I don't look at the ceiling either. I don't figure out the bill. We've invited specialists in this hall for figures: logistics, railway specialists, economic analysts. We have also spoken to them separately outside such a discussion format as the debate on a national issue is of crucial importance. They're the ones who say the bill. They say different figures, but they do say different figures than the ones the government offers us. They offer a maintenance cost of 30 to 50 million. Not 13 million or 15 million instead of 10 million, but 30,50 million. The final price for construction is not 4.8 billion, but 14 billion. It's not a miss of one or ten million, it's a miss of ten billion. They have made it wooden and red that it is not a fast railroad that takes us out to Europe. Yeah, he's taking us to Riga. We understand that Riga is also Europe, Vilnius and Kaunas is also Europe. But that is not what we think when we are told about the connection to Europe. We are told about the connection with Europe in the key to Berlin and Warsaw that it is possible to go out to Rome, but it is not and will not be. All right, the train will take us to Latvia in 45 minutes. How expensive is the ticket? The plane will take us to Latvia in 20 minutes, the ticket price is actually very modest, and the future plans are such that the Latvian airline will take us to Latvia free of charge because it wants to bring more customers to Riga airport. These are the calculations that, I didn't understand, are classified or not classified. Henn Põllea's question of secrecy was about planning, which is not the same thing, and how green this project is. I object to the fact that a project that digs up half of Estonia and creates a large mound in the middle of Estonia, over which there is a need to make 80-120 bridges, cannot in any way, by any measure, be green. The saddest thing is that I also did not get the answer to the fact that if the government gives the Prime Minister the power to go to some agreement at the end of January, then what are the obligations that Estonia assumes? Are we going to be fined if we don't comply with any decisions by one day or another? Are we under some kind of investment obligation, do we have an obligation to build a second or a third piece somewhere? What are the obligations that the Estonian state assumes before it has received a new feasibility study? The AECOM study, which is referred to over and over again, has also been quite clearly disproved; it is not credible. The saddest part is the change of government, but the points of conversation remained the same. The Prime Minister says he doesn't take the bill from the ceiling, but he says it on the basis of what officials and specialists have given him. But specialists have provided figures that have been criticised and have been destroyed by criticism. Instead of coming with new, improved data, we are simply calmly told the same figures again. It is not a debate, if we have to start over with A, B and C, because the figures that Rail Baltic is sold to us are not taken seriously. In addition, a clear plan is drawn up here. During the first funding period of the European Union, the stops will be built in 10 million bangs, bridges will be built in two, three or five million pieces, and gravel may be transported, but railways will not be built on it. Construction of railways will remain in the next financing period, which may not be the case. Trains are not meant to be there at all because trains are not infrastructure, they should be purchased separately. I would point out that we pay for the same carrotendronge that we travel for more than ten years and have a state budget cost of EUR 10 million each year. We already maintain the current railways every year for about EUR 20 million. How can it be said in the light of these figures that this new one is much faster, much bigger, much wider? Oh, so Rail Baltic's only gonna pay $10 million? Well, it's just not serious! Such data will come up again and again. So how do we hold some kind of public debate? It's not a debate, it's a head-on-the-board debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U55	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U56	Mr. Chairman! Prime Minister! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This questioning is extremely important, but I have to admit that even in a large number of cases, the questioners have too few opportunities to ask questions in order to highlight all the important issues here. I came here, above all, to mark things that we may not have been able to raise so clearly. Prime Minister, there is very little time until 31 January. I don't think there's enough time to answer all the questions. The first question is indeed the lack of public debate. Discussions have taken place in an overall plan, but there has not been a broad social debate. I think that Estonian society as a whole has many more questions about this matter than you currently have answers. Let us start with the forecast of the volume of freight transport, which has already been highlighted here. This forecast has dried up over time, three times smaller, no more talking about 30 million tons a year. Also, given our population situation, all the stories about passenger transport have been quite utopian. But there are really more economic arguments. We pay apart from the existing railway structure and we will pay even more. How will the pipeline be managed? You do not have clear answers of your own what will happen after the coordinator completes the design, construction and marketing process. If this role is exhausted, how will this whole thing be coordinated between the three countries? Therefore, I have this feeling that there is another threat to this project. It is that misunderstandings arise between three friendly countries, to put it mildly, because things have not been cleared up. Secondly, it seems very clear that if the Latvian bonus is a connection to the Riga railway station, the Lithuanian bonus connection between Vilnius and Kaunas, then it is only natural that the question of the direction of Tartu-Valga has been raised in Estonia. We don't get that kind of bonus. Finally, I must point out that, at the time the Prime Minister answered the questions here, there was news about the position of Prime Minister Saulius Skverneis of Lithuania, which is such that he is not sure at all that this agreement can be signed during this month. His main argument is that Lithuania's relatively new government, too, does not have enough information to sign. I am a little surprised by the attitude of the Prime Minister that we are clear. We also have a new government. You might want to consider this more carefully before you start making decisions at this rate! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U57	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U58	Mr President, thank you very much. Prime Minister! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am seriously amazed by the great scepticism that prevails in this hall. I am also seriously amazed that the Riigikogu wants to take on the role of executive power. I'm actually amazed at the fact that Rail Baltic is being intimidated by some unknown ghost. As mayor, I was able to visit the Helsinki-Lahti high-speed rails. I sincerely advise everyone to go see it, it's not far. The Riigikogu could put together a group of people who are interested and go there. It's almost nothing, but then you'll see how perfectly it works. As I said, life goes on both sides of the railway, on the right and on the left, even after this railroad is completed. There is one particular feature and an important nuance, to which Andres Ammas has also hinted. Indeed, one thing that Rail can perhaps blame the planners of Baltic is that at first it was even questioned whether the train would stop at all in Pärnuski. We had to prove for a long time that there had to be a stop in Pärnu, but it was foreseen that there would really be no stops. Then the second extreme was reached so that it could be a regional railway at the same time. When we look at the Helsinki-Lahti railway, we see that it is both a high-speed rail and a regional railway. There are also trains that are significantly slower, but they also make significantly more stops. Once again, there is no point in painting a ton of Rail Baltic. If we are talking about land transfer and what the reward should be for the people whose land Rail goes under Baltic, then, of course, this is also one thing that can be blamed for, but not even so much for today's government, rather the previous one. Let us be honest, these adjustments should have been done a long time ago, then there would certainly have been less panic and opposition. We are not as rich a country as Finland, but in Finland, when Helsinki was built a high-speed railway, those whose land did not pass the railroad had been offended rather because it would have been a good opportunity to sell their land to the state. So this is definitely one place where the country should keep pace. Of course, it must be fair and it must not harm landowners. I'll tell you a few more points. They're worried about the volume of freight. As I recall, the planned volume of freight transport is about 114 million tonnes, by 2030 and all three Baltic states together. Finland has a volume of 105 million tonnes of foreign trade and 90 million tonnes of this 105 million tonnes are moving by sea, which is already on board the ship. We recently visited Tallinn Harbour with the Economic Commission and saw Valdo Kalm, the head of the Port of Tallinn, the same Rail Baltic! They have an entire logistics center in the building, they're already planning with Muuga and, if I'm not mistaken, the Vuosaar, or what the other port was because of Rail Baltic. So let's compare the data again: 90 million tonnes, which are already moving by sea, and we need 114 million tonnes for the three Baltic States. I'm certainly not worried about that. This volume is foreseen for 2030. All the more so because, as I suggested, perhaps one of the biggest problems right now is really this overloaded Via Baltica. This means that 1500 cars travel a day between Pärnu-Jaagup and Pärnu. 1,500! That's, by the way, 500 hits more than he drives between Kose and Mäo. On the section of Kose-Mäo there are 1000 hikes, i.e. a car train a day, and 1500 between Pärnu-Jaagup and Pärnu. This is a completely unacceptable risk that we are actually causing to our people. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U59	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U60	As rail transport in Europe is very strongly favoured, restrictions on road freight have been and will continue to be introduced, as this mode is clearly more anti-environmental. This means that already the road is overloaded and it is absolutely inevitable to create this north-south railway corridor. We're crying behind the east-west railway corridor, but there's no more cargo. And we're still crying, and I'd like to carry some freight along that railroad. But there's no more merchandise! The lion's share of Rail Baltic goods would actually come from Finland. In this sense, the arguments put forward here are completely incomprehensible, that it is not difficult to carry out this little circle over Tartu. I hope that train's long gone. In fact, the road through Tartu is a bit more than 100 kilometres longer, not only on Estonian territory, but on Estonia and Latvia together. I think it's 120-130 kilometers taller. It will take more than half an hour for this land to pass, which has been referred to here. That's why it's gonna be a couple or three hours, and it's gonna be an extra cost. Maybe we wouldn't be competitive because of this, because goods should be transported along 130 kilometres longer than when hauling through Pärnu. These are also arguments that must certainly be taken into account. There is another peculiar nuance that Finnish entrepreneurs have pointed out. Maritime transport is much more sensitive to strike than rail transport, especially for freight transport. That is also what the Finns have said, telling us why they are definitely in favour of the development of Rail Baltic. As for airBaltic and whether we can get Riga, come on, guys! AirBaltic's stock is the last stock worth buying. I'm also invited to perform at a conference. I've gained a lot of fame in the shadow of Thomas, the investor of Äripäev. But indeed, when we look, neither the acts that AirBaltic did were less sinful than what Estonian Air did. It was just that we had these things developed and once they wanted to make a huge hub, pick up all the people across Finland and spread all over the world, but on the other hand, they said that eight destinations would be enough. That was certainly what the European Commission did not like, and that was why we received this fine. I'm sure you don't want to bet on that. In terms of dumping, it is also possible to say, of course, in the case of Rail Baltic, that we are carrying Estonians from Tallinn to Riga free of charge for a year. But it's only a matter of time before it all changes. As far as time is concerned, not only can flight time be taken into account, but time must be taken to go to the airport and to wait at the airport, and then it becomes clear that it is going to take several times more time to travel by train. So once again, good friends, this is not my project, this is the future project for our children and our grandchildren. When the volcanoes in Iceland erupted, we said it was nice to live in Estonia, but we do have a bad government because we do not have high-speed trains. There are everywhere in Europe, but we don't! Now we've forgotten. Once again, we should have thought about all this ten years ago. Siim Kallas has been running this Rail Baltic project for ten years. We must be proud that it was included in the list of CEF projects. And now we're the ones who want to pull the carpet from under their feet. Let's not do this, we believe in this project! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U61	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U62	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We just heard a very emotional assessment here, we didn't hear any numbers. It's such a me-believ-that- attitude. I don't believe in anything. I recall another project, which must also have been very profitable. I am thinking of the oil shale mining project of Eesti Energia in Utah, Utah, U.S.A. I remember that when this project was launched and the hosanna was sung on it, experts There were people who knew the laws of the United States, including the laws of the state of Utah, and proved that according to the laws of the United States and Utah states, it is not possible to make a profit there with the technology of Estonian oil shale mines and Estonia's experience, because there is a different water law, air law, underground law, etc. It didn't work. These people were thought to be scientists freaks who simply threw sticks at a great project. But what's gonna happen now? Now it turns out that this project has failed completely and we are paying long and long years of debt in the course of this project. Who was right, were politicians who had officials write themselves some sort of bill and earpiece about how we make billions there, or those who know things? We're in more or less the same situation right now. We are told about this matter by people who know transport and logistics, who are transit traders who can calculate. Politicians can't count, they can only count votes, they can't calculate. By the way, today we have experienced how the Prime Minister had probably gotten from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, but perhaps somewhere else from the Ministry and dullly counted everything that was written there. Prime Minister, this is not political leadership; this is the dance of officials, mandarins. The Mandarins, those sitting in the European Commission, and others sitting in our ministry, who are communicating nicely along a two-way street, have written to you their wishful thinking about this thing. The reasoning is, of course, very simple: we have already invested so much that we can no longer retreat, no more paying for future generations of our mistakes, no more. It may also be an emotional assessment, but I think that this assessment is morally related, unlike this emotional assessment, that I believe that, like in Finland, things are going to happen for us. I won't! The situation in Finland is quite different. By the way, I am now using the favourite word of Estonian officials, it is very indicative that neither Poland nor Finland have joined this project. Believe me, they do better than we do. They've calculated that this thing doesn't pay off, that's why they won't join it, and that's why we can't take the train straight to Berlin. Very simple. The Via Baltica has also been mentioned several times today. I brought it up myself. If we are going to build a huge project called Rail Baltic, once again it is indicative that we do not even have an Estonian name for this thing, then we will not have Tartu-Luhamaa road or Via Baltica Iklan, because we will bury all the money, labor and material in these peat bogs and swamps. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U63	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U64	We're too poor a country. Ihne costs double, they say. We have eyes burning in our heads like some Clever Ants for this unfortunate European money. But we don't realize that cheap costs double. We'll pay for these mistakes, these false calculations, all the tooth-blowing that officials are gonna do, in the future, multiple-tacked, all of which will be paid for by our children and grandchildren. That's the whole point. Not in the way that we do not want railways, we want railways; not in the way that we do not want fast railways, we want very fast railways; not in the way that we do not want to connect with Europe, we want to connect with Europe, by which we mean Warsaw, Berlin, Paris, Brussels, Copenhagen, whatever. We want it all. But we want it at a reasonable price. Not in a way that discussion means just one thing: one side of the discussion dictates essentially to the whole society, which is right, which is acceptable and which must be implemented. By the way, neither the previous government nor the current government actually had a mandate to do this. This has not been asked by the people; there is no mandate. Executive power cannot hijack this mandate, even though we see it being done now. This is the point of discussion as to whether or not society will give a mandate for this project. But now we are seeing how this mandate is simply taken. We love to talk about democracy, and we really love to talk about it. This is actually the part where we should talk about it. The mandate must not be hijacked, but indeed a discussion must be held in which account is taken not only of the figures issued by officials, but also of the figures issued by specialists, of the figures issued by independent specialists, if you wish. AECOM does not mean independent professionals. Nobody who's paid off is an independent audit firm or a specialist. But independent people can be found. Again, it is indicative how reluctantly Latvians and Lithuanians come along with this whole thing, how much, I dare say, with a straighter back and also more selfishly they look at this project. But we are struck in the darkness: there are Berlin lights somewhere, and we are rushing towards them, despite the fact that by storming that way we fall into one of the bottomless peat pits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U65	According to Toomas Kivimägi, the Home and Working Procedures Act, you can only speak once in the negotiations. No one has mentioned the name of the honourable member of the Riigikogu, Toomas Kivimägi. [[T. Kivimägi's interjection.]] I believe your soul is screeching, but I don't have a chance to give you the floor. You could only ask me a procedural question, but I don't think that's your question to me. [[T. Kivimägi's interjection.]] Is it for me? A procedural question to the President, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U66	My question is rather that I am very concerned, because Ernst & Young is doing a cost-benefit analysis, but it seems to me that this is completely pointless, because some members of the Riigikogu say that this analysis is a piece of junk and does not fit. Now that is such a concern for the whole debate. That's why I didn't announce the bill. I'm sorry it wasn't a procedural question! I was just taking this opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U67	However, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas has expressed his wish to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U68	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I sincerely thank the members of the Riigikogu from the Free Party for bringing this issue or this question to the table. The fact that the EKRE brought this issue to the Chamber of the Riigikogu on 13 December is, I think, also commendable and takes it forward. There's a few things I want to do. First of all, this joint statement by the Prime Ministers of the three Baltic States does not entail any additional obligations. I went through it. It formalises existing agreements in other documents, such as the railway route, the obligation to carry out preliminary work, the possibility for the European Union and local audit bodies to audit, etc. All these agreements are already in place. As I said, the first agreement was concluded in September 2011 by the Prime Ministers at the time. Now a word on the question of Monika Haukanõmme and the aspect of the land. I asked you to look into it, and I did some research myself. I understand that the plots that are actually going to be bought are now being taken into account and are being taken into account for their intended purpose. In certain cases, agreements are also expected to be concluded when countries change and 81% of EU funds are taken into account when buying. A few more things. The question in Artur Talvik's speech was why go to Kaunas. You can go to Panevezhys, there's an internal stairwell that I know of, a very important object you can look at. But if you want to see a good basketball, you're still going to Kaunas. If you want to see Arvydas Sabon, he's most likely to be seen in Kaunas. Just kidding. Come on, Riga. Zoo for zoos, there is no giraffe in Tallinn, but in fact we understand that there are very many branches of Estonian companies in Riga. We have close economic ties with Latvia. We all know that if bus or train travel has a good Internet connection, driving time is always needed because you can work. You can also read an interesting book, learn new wisdom from the wide world. So that's never the time that's been wasted. I didn't quite understand whether they wanted to know why we didn't consider the second route through South-East and South-East Estonia. I have written down the idea that we currently have a railway connected to Europe. I hope I got that point right. If we really want to talk about another route, we must consider that the planning process will last at least five years, if not longer. That's one. Secondly, the European Union's current resources will certainly not be able to be used by the deadline. Thirdly, the current European Union co-financing will be abolished. Fourthly, in the next budgetary period of the European Union, Rail Baltic funding will change, and the likelihood of this funding will decrease. Fifthly, reputational issues are important in communication with other Baltic countries. It is not at all excluded that Latvia and Lithuania should then pay back the investments they have made. It'd be pretty complicated. These are the reasons why it cannot be considered very seriously. The maritime aspect you brought in is important. What's to deny, I know it's important to the Free Party, this signal has come from you. Good or bad, we're trying to get on with it. The cargo ships under the Estonian flag are, of course, the goal that we are working on. You said the railroad was the last century. Well, it's not. I think the railroad is this century, the last century and the next century. Rail traffic is important. Can I have three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U69	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U70	Now from the EKRE and from the speeches by both Martin Helme and Mart Helme. You expressed concern that when Rail Baltic comes, all other Estonian rail network projects would be sidelined. I won't. The government has confirmed the development of infrastructure (1520 mm) and a number of major rail infrastructure improvements totalling EUR 100 million for the period 2014-2020. It should be noted that the Government has agreed on an additional investment programme of a size of 315 million, some of which will also be for infrastructure. I would like to give you examples of: reconstruction of the railway in Tartu, reconstruction of the railway in Tapa-Narva, the second stage of reconstruction of the railway in Tallinn-Keila-Keila-Paldiski and Keila-Riiisipere, reconstruction of the Tallinn-Keila-Keila-Paldiski management system, as well as reconstruction of the infrastructure in AS-Edelarail infrastructure and the railway in Tallinn-Rapla. So in any case, Rail Baltic does not mean that other railway connections are taken out of focus. Martin Helme said what kind of a high-speed train is that? As far as I know, this railroad should be running at a speed of 240 kilometres per hour. The maximum speed of driving between Tallinn and Pärnu is 90 kilometres per hour, usually at a lower speed. Nothing's classified. No documents are classified. I understand that this is a rhetorical sentence, but I am still telling you, looking at you, that no documents have been classified or secretly made. You said there was a change of government, but nothing's changed. I think there's been a lot of change. It is certainly not a government of figures; it is the government that turns its eyes towards the people of Estonia and Estonia. The fact that the people of Estonia live well every day is a priority for this government. But I can't stop at it any longer because time is running out. As I said, there will be no new obligations on 31 January, don't be afraid of it. You said we had to start buying trains. As far as I know, we need to find operators. What else was I gonna say? Mr Herkel spoke from the direction of Tartu. I already gave you an answer. You might consider it, but this is a completely different approach, so we're not talking about Rail Baltic anymore. Those fears, why shouldn't we do that, I brought it out. I take it very seriously that the government needs to get a clearer picture and consider things thoroughly. If a member of the Riigikogu says so, we will consider and measure again. Like they say, nine times and cut once. I'm sure it's an important signal. I was trying to explain to Monika Haukanõmme as well as I could so soon. Mart Helme said I answered all the questions so I read the answers off the paper. I think I answered all the additional questions that came from the hall, from the head, looking at you. I may try to start answering written questions in the future, but I think that both you and I will be more comfortable being answered directly. I thank you very much for the discussion and I wish you the strength! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U71	The Prime Minister's speech concludes the negotiations. Artur Talvik also received an answer to his fundamental question of what to do in Kaunas. The debate on this item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U72	Now the free microphone begins. George Adams, please! He's not here? Peter Ernits, please! George, I'm sorry! Peter Ernits got ahead, your name disappeared. Thank you, Prime Minister. Power! Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U73	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize to George for getting ahead of me! On Friday, a new American president takes office. I see fear in the eyes of many here on Toompea, the breath of the Cold War is still here. Fear of Russia has crippled us for a long time. Three large ships just landed in Bremerhaven, and 900 cars were loaded with Abrams tanks and other items. I don't know if they've already arrived in Estonia, but they probably have. This is the largest weaponry that has reached Europe since the end of the Cold War. Although many would like to have a normal relationship with our eastern neighbour, we are still here thinking that it is right to scream towards our eastern neighbour, because we have known that America is behind us. But now all of a sudden, since Friday, the White House has a different man. The man who questions the dogmas to date. For example, he thinks that NATO is out of date and needs to be tuned. (Truely, we are among the five countries that could initially feel calm.) He also thinks that Merkel has led Europe into a disaster, Brexit and the Christmas market are the consequence of all this. Next, in Syria, with Russia and Iran, we must fight Islamic fundamentalists, and Crimea belongs to Russia. The last opinion has been recommended to the new president by his experienced advisor Henry Kissinger, the multiple secretary of state during Reagan's time. Or the opinion that sanctions against Russia should be lifted. What does that mean? You gotta turn your nose to the wind and start talking about it again. I'm looking forward to seeing if the same men and women are gonna start talking a whole different story soon, or if everything's gonna be the same as it's been used to so far. But not to talk for long, I admit I like feminine women and men with eggs. The new president who moves to the White House from Friday is a man with balls. I sincerely keep my fingers crossed, just like many voters, such as in South Estonia, by the way. So good luck and strength for him!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U74	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U75	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There have always been 49 city councillors in Tartu City Council. In the 1990s, the city of Tartu had been divided into four constituencies, so that in each district 12 to 13 mandates were fulfilled. The situation changed since 2002. In fact, before that, I do not know exactly this history, but I think that, to a very large extent, this has been the resultant work of the Reform Party, the law has been amended and restrictions have been removed on how large the electoral community can be. In the 2002 municipal elections, when there was a single 49-mandated electoral district in Tartu, the majority of the votes were received by the Reform Party, which had already had enough power in Tartu. About 36000 voters were elected in Tartu, and the list of Reform Party was given about 14,000 votes. What's important here? What matters is how the voices were divided on that list. A few years earlier, Andrus Ansip, who was a very popular mayor, had become the mayor of Tartu at the head of this list. They gave him just under 9,000 votes, as far as I know. This is an extraordinary number of votes; no one has ever received so many votes in the Tartu City Council elections. Candidate No. 2 received 243 votes. Two more people got over 200 votes. Everyone else on this list got votes below the quota, less than 170 votes. So Andrus Ansip went to Tartu City Council at the time and took at least 20 more candidates for the Reform Party with him. I'd call it Ansip, because the same thing is going to happen at the end of this year at the local elections. This means that there is one list in the municipality and it is reasonable for each party to put as popular a candidate as possible at the top of the list and build the campaign in such a way that as many people as possible vote for this number. This is what the Act on the Election of the Local Government Council, adopted in 1993, tried to avoid, which now seems to be the norm for local democracy in Estonia. According to the current law, if the administrative reform law has a key figure of 5000 and 11000 (this is the number of residents in the local government), then in the first case there should be at least 17 mandates in the electoral district and in the second case at least 21 mandates. This could lead in the long term to the deterioration and destruction of a proportionate electoral system. This certainly does not bring good for the future of Estonian democracy. I remember that when I was a young man, what was very important in Tartu was what was happening in Vanemuine Theatre. About 1964 there was some dispute over Kaarel Ird. I remember a student shop whose name doesn't come to mind right now wrote a poem that contained a verse like this: 'And the shining stars of the sky of the chief showcase director of the theatre turned out to be holes in the roof of the theater tent. " Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U76	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U77	Mr. Chairman! Honourable representatives of the people left in the hall! I think that what Jüri Adams pointed out here about the large electoral circles must be brought into this context as regards the so-called two-chair law, i.e. the application of members of the Riigikogu in local elections. Very large electoral districts, candidates of national significance, few municipalities, the name of this whole thing is, in fact, that one of the hidden objectives of cartel parties in the process of administrative reform is to achieve the best possible positions themselves and, once again, to make one attempt to dismantle electoral alliances, making their competitive opportunities as difficult as possible. One could talk at length about why it is not appropriate to share 49 mandates in one constituency and why it does not correspond to the proportional selection system that is common in Estonia. I do not think it makes sense in this system to share more than 15 mandates in one constituency, i.e. all these combined large councils, which are larger than that and are elected in one constituency, are not very sensible. A peep has now come out of the Free Party that we want to take steps to make the competitive conditions of free electoral alliances equal to those of political parties. If political parties receive support from the state budget, which they can also share with their local lists in the case of local elections, this possibility has been completely withdrawn from the electoral alliances. They don't get any such support, and they're a priori in a worse position. Their conditions of competition are neither equal nor comparable to those of political parties. This is a fundamental injustice, a mismatch that should not exist in the Estonian elections. In yesterday's 'Actual Camera', it was very funny to watch the Reform Party, represented by Valdo Randpere, and the Centre Party, represented by Kadri Simson put their backs together and announced that nothing like this could happen, let this system remain as it is, and only the parties of the Riigikogu should enjoy such support. I was even more surprised when I read Kalle Muuli's mindset this morning so that such an approach would be corrupt. No! Corruptive is the current system, which gives some advantages and deprives others of these advantages. It certainly needs to be changed. One more thing. We will probably also come to the issues of administrative reform with questions. We have asked questions about what is going on with Läänemaa, or the separation of two rural municipalities from the historic county. I got a lot of soul scratched, and my sense of justice was disturbed when the Prime Minister said last week that yes, the problem is, but that's the way the local councils decided, they're finally free in their decisions. This raises the question of whether all the stupidities that are presented to us have really been carried out by free will as a result of its own democratic value. If a democratic decision is inconsistent with reason, it is as if it should be assumed. I want to stress that this is a big, naked lie. There has been no free will in a situation where, with 5 000 inhabitants criteria, local governments have simply come to their heads. It has been a whip, and the other half has been a cookie, or government honors, for voluntary accession. If we start to look at all these stupidities that occur in the form of illogical mergers across Estonia, we will see that they have nothing to do with the free will of the councils, rather it is a Bolshevik coercion mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-16_U78	Dear Riigikogu, the Monday session is closed. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 4.57 p.m.
