ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U1	I'm so sorry, but we can't start working today unless there's a silence in the hall!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U2	Honourable Riigikogu! The Tuesday session of the 7th working week of the V plenary session begins with Olari Koppel being required to take an oath of office in the event of the appointment of a deputy adviser to the Chancellor of Justice. Please, Olari Koppel!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U3	Honourable Riigikogu! I pledge to remain loyal to the people of Estonia, the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order, and in accordance with my conscience, in accordance with the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Estonia, to perform impartially all the duties for which I am obliged by the Office. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U4	Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U5	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the eight representatives of the Free Party, I am going to refer an inquiry to the Minister of State Administration, Mikhail Korb. The Free Party does not have any directly elected ambassadors from Viljandi County, but none of the ambassadors from Viljandi County have raised these problems. We believe that there are similar administrative reform problems in this region as we have raised them in the case of several counties. There, too, the borders of the new municipalities have been drawn on the basis of odd logic, which does not take historical ownership into account, and there is also a very clear name problem. We find it quite incomprehensible that the municipality of Mulgi is formed within the limits of two historic parishes of Mulgimaa, and three of them are excluded. There is a problem with the name of Suure-Jaani, which was sacrificed in the course of an important political negotiation, in which councils may find themselves in a situation where the reform is carried out in the way it has been done. There is a strict requirement of 5000 inhabitants, fear of losing the accession grant, etc. The historical-geographical task of dividing Viljandi County has not, in our opinion, been performed on a good, not even satisfactory grade. As a result, we hope that the Minister of State Administration will bring himself up to date with Estonian history, geography and traditions within 20 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U6	On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry and the Management Board decides on its procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 79 members of the Riigikogu will attend the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U7	The second item is the second reading of the draft Act 281 amending the Traffic Act, the State Tax Act and the Product Compliance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. On behalf of the commission, I would like to ask Kristen Michal, Member of the Economic Commission for the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U8	Honourable Vice President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This is the second reading of the draft law amending the Traffic Act, the State Tax Act and the Product Compliance Act. The first reading was on 9 November 2016 and the first reading was closed. The draft amends the law on traffic in order to implement European legislation on recording equipment in road transport, and regulates more specifically the obligations of drivers of motor vehicles with mandatory recording equipment to keep records of driving time and rest periods and the requirements for applying for cards. The Commission discussed the draft on several occasions: on 14, 20 and 21 February. Proposals received by the Commission were examined and decisions taken. The proposals came from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and all but three have found their way to a list that was supported by the Commission. Three proposals were rejected because they concerned rail law and other laws which are not directly related to that law. The Commission took the view that, in accordance with the general practice, however, we do not respond so much to ministries that we allow additional annexes to already pending laws. However, this draft has received an annex which deals with the conduct of control purchases in such a way that the control buyer does not have to declare that he is going to do so. It's probably reasonable as a regulation, because if you announce that you're going to buy control, you'll probably be sold a product that meets the requirements, not sold to the right item, something that isn't. Such a general summary. Corrections are in front of you, there's a bill. There is not much to add to this apart from the Commission's proposal to conclude the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U9	Honourable waitress! No questions for you. I'll open negotiations if I like. There is no wish for negotiation. Let us examine the amendments. 16 proposals have been submitted to amend the draft, all are from the commission and have been fully taken into account: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16. We have examined all the amendments together. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 281. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U10	The third item today is the first reading of the draft law amending the Security Authorities Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. In the name of the initiator, I would like to ask Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good morning. It is a pleasure to stand here before you and to give the Riigikogu to the proceedings of the Security Authorities Act and other Acts Amendment Act 383. The draft has several parallel objectives: to modernise the law on security authorities, to eliminate a number of differences that have arisen over the years in comparison with, for example, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Police and Border Guard Act. It's about gathering hidden information. If we go to the content of the draft, one major amendment is to establish the methods of obtaining a judge's permission for the security authorities for acts requiring judicial authorisation. In accordance with the innovations, the judge may, where indispensable, grant authorisation in any way capable of being reproduced. The change will certainly speed up operations where the time factor is crucial. I would stress that similar possibilities have been available for years in the Code of Criminal Procedure; they have been granted by providing for accelerated methods of obtaining a judge's authorisation in criminal proceedings. Another important change is to regulate more clearly the measures to be used for the hidden collection of information, including involvement in secret cooperation and the pretence of a legal person. The bill regulates pretending in such a way that conspiracy, or concealment, is actually guaranteed. The current law still allows the legal person to pretend, but entries in the registers are currently to be made on the basis of a declaration from the minister concerned and the use of a company established in this way to collect information in disguise is not possible due to a lack of conspiracy. According to the draft, the head of the security authority decides to pretend to be a legal person, like pretending to be a natural person, but the obligation to provide the Minister concerned with information on the activities of such a legal person on a periodic basis remains in force. Thirdly, the draft provides more precisely for the rights of people involved in secret co-workers and their relatives, including, for example, in the event of an accident in the course of such work. These rights also include entitlement to compensation in the event of loss of or loss of capacity for work. Thus, the amendments provide clearer foundations at law level for the implementation of measures to ensure and support conspiracy in the activities of the security authorities, which are today the Defence Police and Information Board. At the same time, the draft harmonises the requirements for the supervision of security authorities. The minister concerned shall, at least once every six months, present to the Special Committee on the supervision of the security authorities of the Riigikogu an overview of the activities and supervision of the activities of the security authorities. In addition to the above amendments, there is another major change to the subject: the name of the Information Office is replaced by the name of the Foreign Intelligence Directorate. As a result of the amendment, the official name of the institution will reflect its activity with a more precise focus. It should certainly be noted that the legal status of the institution and the content of its work, according to the Security Authorities Act, will not change with a change of name, and the future Foreign Intelligence Agency, today's Information Office, is still a government agency operating within the Ministry of Defence. With this, I have briefed you on the draft 383. I'd be happy to hear your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U12	The first one comes from Kalle Laanet. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The Surveillance Act entered into force for the first time in 2001. Life has changed a lot since then. Criminals have also moved from the street to cyberspace, and the whole of cyberspace is increasingly and more involved in our lives. This also concerns our security. Do you have any plans in the future to think about using hidden techniques, cyber agents in cyberspace? Is it intended to use the same methods as we use in everyday life in cyberspace?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U14	Good colleague! You made a minor mistake by accident, saying that the law on surveillance was in force since 2001. The Security Authorities Act has been in force since 2001. But that's it. Your question is very important. We are constantly analysing how it is possible, both in the Security Authorities Act and in KrMS, or the Code of Criminal Procedure, as well as the possibilities provided by the Police and Border Guard Act to use operations in cyberspace. I dare say today that, in fact, all these operations are carried into cyberspace. The question is, rather, what are the technical options? Today, for example, I am starting negotiations with the Minister of Finance. These talks are very clear on these issues, precisely to increase the capacity of cyberspace surveillance, including technical capabilities. So that's a priority. But I dare say that, in fact, the possibilities of the current three laws extend to cyberspace. There's no problem in that sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U15	Eerik-Niles Kross.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U16	Good minister! § 23, conspiracies paragraph.• You also have the possibility, as far as I can understand, of concealing the ownership of immovable property. This should mean the recording of false or false information in the land register. Has it been analysed how it works with our strong land register and what happens to immovable property in the sense of property rights? After all, the state guarantees that the entry in the register is true. Has this aspect been analysed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U17	In fact, it can be said that this entry in the land register is still true because it is made before the so-called legal or natural person who is pretended to be. From the point of view of the land register, the rights and obligations of other people are exactly the same. He's not gonna lose his responsibilities, either. Where a natural or legal person pretended to be involved in a real estate transaction, that person shall be the responsibility of the security authority concerned through that person. From the point of view of the detention book, this person is true; he or she exists under the law established by the State. We're not going to do anything undercover in the lockdown book. We'll make a covertly prepared person whose transactions are recorded in the land register.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U18	Eerik-Niles Kross, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U19	Thank you. I will come back to this at next reading. At the moment, however, I am asking about § 4 of the bill concerning classified external information. It says that secrecy will be extinguished when 20 years have passed since the death of a person. At the moment, this is, as far as I know, a standard of personal data protection usually for 30 years. For example, if someone wants to investigate data on some old criminal case, it must have been 30 years since the person's death, otherwise there will be no access. Is this period to be shortened, harmonised, or what is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U20	In fact, it can be said that the Data Protection Act is a general law and that special laws provide for a number of differences. In your case, this distinction is made because of the need for the content of this law. Special laws, as you know, can restrict general laws and, for example, change certain deadlines. That is how the same provision has been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U21	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I like it very much, and I think others, too, when things are called the right name. The Information Office has now received a name reflecting the content. My question, however, concerns the thoughts of such an ordinary person. All this surveillance, intelligence and information gathering is causing detective stories in readers and crime movies viewers, or the question whether such activities can be expanded in Estonian society under the influence of this law. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U23	I will tell you honestly that, judging from the work of the Special Committee on the supervision of security authorities, there is a slight increase from year to year. In particular, small growth is due to greater experience and better skills, to special measures or rather to the use of exceptional measures, I would call them that. I don't think this bill's gonna bring any kind of explosion. One important point here, for example, is the organisation of existing provisions. However, none of the actions necessary for national security have been cancelled by the security authorities. At least I hope so. The work has been well planned. However, we never know in advance, this judge's permission may really be needed in minutes or hours. Such a problem is possible. Otherwise, this amendment would not have been made in the Code of Criminal Procedure in its time. This amendment made years ago to the Code of Criminal Procedure provided for the possibility of asking permission for certain operations using e-mails and SMS, for example, but some significant increase in surveillance activity, also on the basis of the statistics of the monitoring committee, which I have taken a look at, however, did not result in this. But I also stress that from year to year, this activity has expanded. It is certainly worth stressing, however, that my practical experience confirms that Estonia is a rule of law, where a decent, ordinary Estonian resident and no guest of ours have to worry about anyone following him. Rather, all these things are done to ensure that everyone on the territory of Estonia is safe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U24	Dear waitress, thank you. No further questions for you. The floor for the presentation on behalf of the Commission is Ken-Marti Vaher, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U25	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft law 383 at its meeting on 20 February. Several guests from the Ministry of Interior were invited, including the Minister of the Interior, as well as the Director General of the Information Board and the Director General of the Defence Police. It must be admitted that the main subject of discussion was the new name of the Information Board. However, I will briefly, with a few sentences, give an overview of the presentation of the draft by the Minister. It mainly updates the Security Authorities Act. In particular, these changes are needed in order to better guarantee the rights of people involved in secret cooperation. One important substantive change concerns the regulation on the application for authorisation by the administrative court. In cases where it is necessary to restrict the right of a person to a message secret or to the integrity of his home and family life, the possibilities of obtaining authorisation by the administrative court shall be specified. Another important change is the clarification of the measures to be taken in the context of the hidden collection of information. The name is always a subject that raises a lot of controversy, and so was our discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I will briefly explain the reasons why the name of the Information Office will be changed. A representative of the Ministry of Defence explained that the Foreign Intelligence Office would better communicate the content of the agency's main work. The name change has been carefully considered at the initiative of the Information Office and it has been found that the new name reflects more clearly the main objectives of the Agency's work. According to the Ministry of Defence, the Information Office is currently one of the few institutions whose name does not clearly reflect the main content and activity of the work. The linguists of Tallinn University, as well as the intelligence community, have also debated this name and highlighted a number of problems that primarily concern translations. The English translation of information board means an advert in direct translation, and this certainly is not the main content of the information board's work. The Director General of the Information Office read out how foreign intelligence agencies in other countries are called in English. It was a long list, which I'd be happy to read to you. In the United States, Central Intelligence Agency, UK, is the Secret Intelligence Service. In Germany, the Federal Intelligence Service, the Military Intelligence and Security Service in Sweden, the National Intelligence Organization in Turkey, the Security Information Service in the Czech Republic and, for example, the Foreign Intelligence Service in Romania. The English name of our Foreign Intelligence Service could be Foreign Intelligence Service. The small discussion on this name was the main content of our debate. The Commission came to a clear consensus that the draft could move forward: to put it on the agenda for the meeting on 7 March, to close the first reading, to propose ten working days for the amendments, i.e. 21 March 2017, and to appoint the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U26	Thank you very much. No questions for the waitress. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 383. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of 383 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 21 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U27	The fourth item is the first reading of the draft Population Register Act 382 initiated by the Government of the Republic. In the name of the initiator, I would like to ask Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will report to you another bill initiated by the Government of the Republic. It's a population register bill number 382. This is essentially the text of the new Population Register Act and it has been being drafted by the Ministry of the Interior for several years. Why is this done? After all, we often talk about whether, if there is a text, it is worth confusing society with the drafting of a new text. I, too, asked myself to explain this to me after I sat in the minister's chair. Actually, I understood that need pretty quickly. Firstly, a great deal has changed since the data collection principles. The current Population Register Act was adopted in 2000. Another thing is that the great desire of our country, also in the interests of austerity and the image of e-state, is to try to make another census based on the population register. We plan to take important data from there. The aim is to make the updating of data more convenient. Comfort is needed in order to ensure that communication between the person and the state, as well as between local authorities, is more active, easier for everyone to understand, as well as clearer responsibilities. Now to the bill. As one of the main changes, the draft provides that it will be possible to add to the population register the actual place of stay and the additional address in addition to the person's official place of residence in the future. The place of stay is a temporary place of residence where a person stays for more than three months, such as a nursing home, protective forces, school dormitory, students abroad or people on a foreign mission, and, unfortunately, in some cases, a prison if he or she has arrived there. The person does not have to do anything to mark the place of stay. The data shall be provided in the register by the institution in which the person is present or who has dispatched him. It is important to note that in the future, persons will be able to enter on a voluntary basis in the register, in addition to their main residence, an additional address which is beneficial to the person if he or she has more than one residence. Everyone can update the information about their place of residence in the population register by logging in to the state portal eesti.ee or by contacting the local government. If it turns out that a person does not actually live at the address where he or she is registered, for example, the local authority makes an inquiry or the owner of the dwelling makes an application for it, then the local authority may delete the address of the person. Then his residence data will be empty in the population register. But there is another alternative: if a person wants to indicate the address where he actually lives, but the owner of the dwelling does not allow him to do so for any reason, then the person can apply for the local government to identify his actual place of residence and be transferred to the address where he lives. According to the bill, the owner of the dwelling will receive a notification via e-mail to eesti.ee if someone registers on the territory that belongs to him or if the data concerning the place of residence of the person who registered there cease to be valid. Such regulation precludes the registration of residence by fraud, for example on the basis of a fake rental contract, which sometimes occurs. Thirdly, the draft replaces the term 'communication data' used in the current law with 'contact data'. These contact details, such as e-mail address and telephone number, are very important for all public authorities and local authorities so that the person can be contacted quickly if necessary. For example, the Road Administration uses these data to inform the person of the expiry of the driving licence. There are many other examples. As an update, the draft provides for an obligation for a person to ensure that the contact details are correct. As a result of the draft, the electoral laws also specify that the electoral card is sent to the voter who has the address of the place of stay. But the choice is, of course, made by the person in the constituency of the main place of residence. The change simply allows people to actually get their voter cards. As an important innovation in data protection, more than one hundred individuals are required to be encrypted when they are taken on a single order. In this case, the data of a large number of persons will be protected in the event of a potential loss of the medium. Once again, if the correct contact details are available, the country can contact the person quickly if necessary. Some more important nuances. According to the draft, the deadline for submitting residence data to the register will be shortened. If the law in force obliges a person to update his or her residence details within 30 days from the date of his or her place of residence, then the corresponding period will then be 14 days. However, the residence data may also be provided with a retroactive date, up to 14 days from the date of the notification of residence. Upon taking up residence abroad, a person may submit the notification up to one month before moving abroad. By the way, this provision has been amended for one reason: there have been cases that because a person has not updated his/her residence data, he/she has been deprived of some advantage that has come into effect since the new year of the municipality. In advance, I assure you that we do not want to impose any sanctions in case a person fails to comply with this obligation. But a person can be motivated by the fact that many of the activities of the state and local government he or she needs may remain inaccessible if he or she does not fulfil his or her obligations under the law. As I have already said, the local government has the right to specify people's place of residence. If the owner of the dwelling does not consent, the municipality may also delete the incorrect information. A further important change is the possibility of including the data of people who have no real link with Estonia in the population register as non-commercial data. For example, the topicality of data is terminated for people who have been born at least 100 years and who do not have a valid identity document, i.e. who have not requested it from the Estonian state. Many of these people have died abroad. People who are born abroad and who have Estonian citizenship according to the register will also be deleted from the register, but who have never been granted any Estonian citizenship and any identity documents. Let us be honest, such people do not have a real relationship with the Estonian state. It is possible to record the data in the register on the basis of a statement, but these data do not provide a real legal basis. It is also an important change, and it comes from the spirit of the last census, which I hope you will remember. For example, the register may contain undocumented data on marital status, which are recorded on the record sheets on the basis of statements made by persons. In this case, it is marked "undocumented'. These data come from the pre-populational period. At present, there can be no additional marital status data on the basis of a statement; the change in marital status must always be certified by means of a document. Therefore, if they need to be refuted, this must be certified by the document. According to the draft, all registration data have legal meaning if there is reason to assume that the registration data is correct, i.e. they are documented. The basic data included in the register shall also be used for the fulfilment of a public task. Of course, the legal meaning of contact data does not have, in particular, an e-mail address, a telephone number, and, as I said, civil status data for which the data on these basic documents are not included in the population register. Staff authorised by the Population Register may be both a public authority and a legal person governed by private law. As an innovation, a requirement is introduced that a private legal entity, which is a processor, must be state-owned. The rights and obligations of the controller are also specified. With regard to the requirements for the processor, it is clearly stated that the requirements must be fulfilled not only at the time when the processor is appointed, but also throughout the period during which the processor performs its duties. The controller of the population register is the Ministry of Internal Affairs according to the draft law. In so far as the suspension of the use of the renewed population register is concerned that the use of the population register may be partially or totally suspended by a decision of the Government of the Republic or by a decision of the controller if the use of the register could jeopardise the security of the State in a state of war, emergency, emergency or emergency. And certainly this can also be done in cases where illegal or untargeted use of such data has been detected. The composition of the data is not changed compared to the current one, except for the exclusion of a person from the scope of activity as statistical information. Today, life has shown that it does not make sense to have it there because people change their activities quite often. The current statistics also show as much as it has been possible to verify that these data correspond very little to the real situation. The categories of data recorded in the population register will no longer be current and archived data, but current and non-commercial data. The archive data indicated in the current Act are therefore essentially non-actual data, but with certain differences. For example, there was much controversy about why e-residents are transferred to the archives. According to the new law, these are not current data, but since there was simply no other option in the law, they were automatically transferred to the archives, although they actually applied to these persons. It caused a lot of confusion. In the future, this mess will be off. The draft also sets out the grounds for the termination of the status of the subject of the population register. For example, it ends when at least 100 years have passed since the person was born, as I said. There are no significant changes in the identity code compared to the current law. There are quite a few provisions concerning the possibility of changing the personal identification code, precisely the restrictions on this, as there are relatively few options for changing the personal identification code. It's pretty well written in the bill. An example is one of the current cases arising from the Population Register Act: if we know that it is desirable to hide the child's personal identity code in the case of adoption, then such opportunities exist in the law. This, too, will be one basis for changing the child's personal identity code. However, in general, when using a personal identification code, it is already reasonable for the state to take the view that the smaller the possibility of changing it, the better. A new access processing information system will be established. This is now one of the priorities of the Ministry of the Interior. The Minister of the Interior monitors monthly developments. I will monitor the process to make sure that the development of the new population register is on track. To learn so much, only a few months ago, the population register was brought from Datavara AS under SMIT, or the IT and development centre of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I think I've reported all the more important things to you. The law is very voluminous and also very important. If the Riigikogu accepts everything it has proposed, the bill should enter into force on 1 January 2019. And the reason for this is very clear: by then we will hope to catch up with the text of the law with IT applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U29	The round of questions will be opened by Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question is how, as the bill becomes a law, it holds back all the possible manipulations involved in the registration of residence in our society. Some time ago, several municipalities campaigned to bring together 5,000 inhabitants. Maybe they wrote about some local patriotism, but they certainly didn't change their place of residence. When I went to a municipality last week, I heard about the problem of a very rapid 'break-up' to receive the support of a single-living pensioner. Children are reported from retired parents to make a seemingly lonely living. How does this draft contribute to the reduction of hypocrisy in our society and whether there is a possibility of two residences at stake?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U31	A lot of good questions. Those are the same questions that I had when I first discussed this bill in my house. But there is no perfect law. There would be an ideal law, then I would adopt the ideal law of the Republic of Estonia to solve all problems, and everything would be fine. Now, if you go more seriously to the content, there are several options. One is that the local government determines that a person does not live at a specific address. For example, the owner of a dwelling may indicate that this person is not living on my property and ask the local government to remove that person from it. The municipality is in fact responsible for the accuracy of these data at a much higher level. And why is that? In my opinion, too, because local governments have a lot of responsibilities towards their own people, such as kindergarten places, school places, social benefits and various kinds of benefits, false data can also have a direct impact on their wallets. In some cases, benefits are also paid to people who have nothing to do with the municipality. This is one step towards this solution. Secondly, you asked if we had foreseen the possibility of two residences. This draft does not provide for such a change with legal meaning. We will see that a person writes down a residence with one legal meaning. The legal meaning is important primarily because it depends on the right to vote, and also on which local government has a share in personal income tax. But it is also possible for everyone to indicate their additional addresses. Many of us actually have a place where we spend longer in summer or winter, for example. Our parents can come to us for a long time, and they should have newspapers sent to another address, etc. We are actually doing these things and it would be reasonable for people to make these signs so that the local government or the state can get them even if they are at another address. Now we have a lot more data fields. As I noted, it is not the person's own responsibility to mark the place of stay; it is the institution where the person is staying, such as a nursing home, a prison or a school, when the student is living in a dorm. That's where we're going. I think that the local government is using this opportunity in the interests of its wallet, but also in the interests of people who communicate honestly with the local government and pay taxes there. They have a legitimate expectation of using the benefits and, in the interests of these people, the local government can do much better under this law if there is a situation where there are registered people who have no right to benefits because they do not actually live there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U32	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U33	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I'm asking an analogous question about the possibility of two residences. Some people work in two thirds of a year abroad and only one third in Estonia. My own close relatives practice it. After all, VAT revenue comes to Estonia to a large extent. But at the same time, they're losing certain opportunities. For example, to apply for a driving licence, when the validity period is over, you have to come to Estonia, then registering for children's school and applying for kindergarten places and other such topics. Have you discussed changing the concept or finding solutions to such problems at all? It concerns almost every family that one of them works abroad. At the same time, it would also be recognised by the State. These people would even be willing to pay some more taxes, but on some other basis. Have you discussed this concept and, if so, what conclusions have you reached?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U34	I think you mean the concept of having two legal addresses. However, this would also mean a major tax change. I think we have discussed this issue quite seriously in this Chamber once too. If I remember correctly, it was at the beginning of the previous term when the amendments to the Land Tax Act were underway. Then there was this thought on the table. I do not exclude at all that this could also be discussed in future fiscal policy steps. There's a lot of questioning here. But the debate is going to be much wider than the scope of the population register. The scope of the population register is rather aimed at ensuring that the register is kept as clean as possible. However, I admit, like you, that there is certainly a need to discuss problems related to a large number of Estonian families whose members are abroad. One step that concerns young people in particular is the possibility to mark the same place of stay. As I mentioned, this is not just about Estonia. If a person studies abroad or is on a foreign mission, his/her dispatcher must take care to make a mark on his/her place of stay. This decision does not concern tax liability, because if a person is abroad or studying abroad, he is an Estonian taxpayer anyway. At the same time, I understand you're talking about something else. You will talk about this when people have gone to work elsewhere and are in Estonia less than abroad. They are subject to a tax policy approach, which has been decided between different countries, so it is clear who will receive the taxes. If a person pays taxes elsewhere, he or she will also receive certain benefits from there until his or her retirement, and unfortunately his or her connection with Estonia will decrease. But I dare tell you that the Population Register Act will not solve this tax-political problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U35	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The highest objective of keeping a population register is the collection of reliable information. However, we know quite well that this information is not reliable, at least at present. Are there mechanisms to help ensure that the information contained in the register is as accurate and as reliable as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U37	I don't really share your pessimism about the population register. Of course, we hear rumors that there may be quite a lot of misinformation. However, if you unblock page 15 of the explanatory memorandum, there will be data in the second paragraph as of 1 April 2016 on how people have completed the register. Somewhere in the explanatory notes, I don't know how to name a page right now. Of course, these data could be more accurate, but they are not hopelessly wrong. What am I saying? For this purpose, the concept of the Population Register Act has changed slightly. Let me give you an example. This is quite a problem in Estonia that we are trying to solve by this law. This is because there are nearly 30,000 people in Estonia, and these are not quite accurate data, who are registered with the accuracy of the local government. They don't have a specific address, Oak Street 1, for example. They have Tallinn as their place of residence, as well as the part of the city. The reason is, by the way, very much in the rental contracts of a person who has not been able to register for his or her actual address because the owner does not want it. The owner does not want a very simple reason: someone may wonder if he or she will still pay the payment on the rent. It's a reality. Now there is a chance that a person can ask the municipality: I live there in reality, but the owner does not want to register me. At the same time, we protect the owner. If someone arbitrarily signs in, the owner will know that someone checked in on your apartment. It's all online, it's all simple and possible. By creating these possibilities, we will certainly increase the reliability of the register by giving the data subject, in addition to data subjects, a person entered in the population register, currently an object, in the future a subject that is also right, because what an object a person is, a person is still a subject, and a local government has the right to make entries for others. I very much hope that the register will also include places of stay when people are away from home and other places of residence. Personally, I would like to write down all these data, because I know how comfortable it is to communicate with the state in this case. I have my e-mail address on the eesti.ee portal and when the new population register comes, I will do it again if I have to do it again, I hope I don't have to, because then I will always be available.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U38	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I've encountered in private law an expression that some kind of data is supposed to be accurate, or something like that. The law of the law of debt was made here in its time, and there are several places in it. Paragraph 6 (1) of this draft states that the accuracy of the data entered in the population register is presumed. I honestly do not understand what such a sentence could mean in the law of public law. If the data that has been entered there are true, then you shouldn't have to write such a thing into the law. If it is a false declaration, whether it has happened from the finger of the person making the entry or intentionally, what does it mean that the correct information is expected, but it is essentially wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U40	Thank you, that's a good question! By the way, this is a very big change in the doctrine of public law. Let me give you an example. In parallel, we also deal with the Aliens Act, which is not directly relevant to the population register, but indirectly. When we get to the residence permits, it will. It states that once a person has obtained a residence permit and has given information on it, and if he or she extends it, he or she does not have to prove it again. It is assumed that the data will continue to be accurate once the person has given them. It actually has the same content here. We still rely on people being honest. The bottom can be a sense of care, that is the biggest problem we all have, we forget something or we're wrong to present some kind of data. However, the State still assumes that the data are correct as long as the contrary has not been proven. A person carries his data somewhere, letting him know that he lives at this address. We assume that this is the right address as long as it has not been proven otherwise. In the present case, since it is property, the State will carry out a follow-up check just in case. He'll send a message to the owner that this person and this person are registered at your address. For example, the education system transfers data from the EHIS that has been collected during the Republic of Estonia through graduations. If a person has voluntarily entered some data in the register, we will expect them to be correct until they have been denied by anyone. For example, that a person has not graduated from this university, he has not been there. The purpose of this register is to reduce red tape. If a person's right to make a certain entry doesn't hurt anyone, then we trust a person. If something hurts someone, you have to prove otherwise. All of this reminds me of the anniversary of the Republic when I was watching this good old "Mean Cooler" internship. Kärna Arn, or who she was, brought proof: this proof is proof that I am not married, this proof is proof that I have a dog, etc. The package was awfully large, and there was still a need for a second and a third copy of these papers. We want to rule it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U41	Hatter, the second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U42	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! You said twice in your introduction that a real place of residence would be identified. Who has the obligation to identify the actual place of residence? If this task is entrusted to local authorities, will it involve some kind of financial allocation? How's that supposed to work? But if this is to be done by the people themselves, how will they be informed? For young people today who are very mobile, this is not a primary necessity.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U43	I'll start at the end. The primary need actually arises when a person is motivated. We're not going to write down a series of sanctions in this law. The motivation is given by the fact that the local government has a lot of life. If a person goes away from home to work or study, they may ask where he lives. If he wants to get a discount, wants to get a study place, wants to get a kindergarten place, it all depends on how accurate his data is. But let me make it clear that, above all, it is the responsibility of the person himself to record his data in the register. The local government doesn't carry out any routine control, so there's a person sitting around reviewing some kind of database. This must not even be done if there is no reasonable doubt. Otherwise, there is already a problem that the local government official has exceeded his competence. It must be checked if, for example, the owner of the dwelling or the social worker says that a particular person does not live at this address if there is a reasonable suspicion that the person is living there or not. But when we talk about money, I don't see a problem. The task of local government is to organise the lives of people at local level. And if he can verify on the signal he received that a person doesn't live where he claims to be alive, then the official will clean up the register and thus be able to correct the municipal expenses, probably in a positive direction. I don't see a direct increase in the financial burden here. Some officials are working on the population register anyway. In the larger municipality, several officials, in the smaller one or two, have this right. They will have to answer questions and questions from residents anyway, and if they find that they have been misbehaved, they will have to react. It's their duty. This law certainly does not provide for any kind of massive collection of databases. Above all, these are people's own responsibilities. But if any owner complains that someone has been registered with his address without his knowledge, then you have to react. This option still exists, but it is not possible for the local government to delete this entry.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U44	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U45	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! We want, and you expect, to adopt this law in such a way that the register becomes operational on 1 January 2019. In 2020, there will be another census that will reveal how many of us will live on this little plot of land. There was a trial count last year. Did it reveal significant shortcomings in the register and can you sum up which of them were taken into account in the new version of the Register Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U46	This is a very important issue. This same trial count has been made on the basis of the current register. When we talk about an electronic register, there is no new register yet. Yeah, it'll be adjusted, a little circled. The new register will come from the surface of this bill. The purpose of the trial count was to understand what else we need in the register. Got a short answer, I can't answer better.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U47	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U48	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, This is a matter of security and defence. What aspects of defence, internal security and migration have been taken into account and coordinated in drafting the law so that the register contains the right information and can be used in real time even in emergency or emergency situations when there is a major natural disaster or fire? People must also be easily accessible so that they can be informed quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U49	A good vigilante, now you're demanding a great deal from one law. All these tasks are largely on the kitchen side of the Ministry of the Interior. But the issue of information we are dealing with in the Ministry of the Interior together with the State Chancellery in the Population Protection Task Force, where one important issue is how to create a proper information system in Estonia. This may not be the best for the time being, and so there have been various trials. With this law, however, when it comes to getting people, we give the residents the opportunity to write down all the data that will facilitate their receipt. Right now, we have a lot of use for X-Road. For example, if you write down your e-mail address at the Road Administration, which is not in the population register, this address will reach the population register with no legal meaning. In essence, however, you have offered a different address to the country, by which you can be reached. This may be the case with another phone, for example. Once again, these data do not have a legal meaning in this case, they have an informative meaning, and they facilitate communication between people and the state. Man himself has given this information there, and it is for the purpose of getting to him at all times. My appeal is always, no matter where I speak, whether I go to school or in front of some other body of people, to take advantage of the opportunities that already exist. Make all your addresses Estonian.ee based. You run it using your first and last names, some may have a number in the back. Then, by the way, it's interesting to see how many of your celebrities are in Estonia, more or less you'll find out. I was lucky to see there weren't any. But in that case, you will always receive important e-mails, whether you have accidentally exceeded your speed or something like that. If you don't want you to make it to the Nightshade for this violation, for example, then pay the fine. People arrive in the evenings when they have not fulfilled their obligation to provide information to the public by sending it to the bailiff. If you fulfil your obligations to the state by, for example, paying off a warning ticket for a misdemeanor recorded with a speed camera, you will not make it to the Nightmare. The information will reach you through Estonia.ee and you will pay the fine. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U50	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U51	Mr Minister, I have another question, too, concerning the legal side. Is this a state register or is it not a state register, but a common register between the state and all local authorities? How's that, exactly? Would the City of Tartu, for example, have the right to take a decision not to use this register, as it can better fix reliable data itself? Or is there a forced duty here? If a person wants to sue because the false entry in the register has caused him harm, who is the subject of the action?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U52	Thank you. The questions were very specific, and the answers will also be very specific. Firstly, the population register is a database belonging to the national information system. Its controller is the Ministry of the Interior. It is clear that this is also mandatory for all local authorities, although municipalities are processors. The controller is the Ministry of the Interior, and we are responsible for this area. As stated in the text of the law, all disputes are submitted primarily to the Ministry of the Interior, and if this appeal does not satisfy a person, then the case will, as usual, go on to the administrative court. The Ministry of the Interior is the solver of the primary appeal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U53	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The new law creates the possibility to put the main address and additional address in the register. When I think about social welfare, the provision of services and the payment of benefits depend to a large extent on the address of the place of residence. However, I will give an example that a person is a summer giant or a summer islander who lives in Tallinn for a few months, while the rest of the year lives in Hiiu- or Saaremaa. If he or she needs a personal assistant or home helper's service, how can he or she deal with this situation? If he has written down two addresses in the municipality, one has legal meaning and the other has an additional address, how do you deal with the situation? Will he change these addresses every six months, bearing in mind which is the legal meaning and which is the annex? So the question of possible organisation of social welfare.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U55	This law does not directly amend the Social Welfare Act or other special laws. If a social worker needs to get information about someone, contact them, he or she will, of course, also get access to the person via an additional address. When we talk about social welfare services, it is clear that they are still provided by a legal address. If a person wants to change that address, he has the right to do so. It must also take into account what I said earlier and what is important for the functioning of the state: it must also take into account the dates that people do not accidentally miss any deadlines. For example, if a person makes a registration after the start of a new year, he or she may have a problem getting a social welfare service. I'm not a specialist in this field, but I believe this has happened with grants. We've been analyzing all this. This is also the reason why we have shortened the time of the entry if someone wants to register for a new address. This is precisely because there is no situation in which a person is left without the essential support or service that the local authority must provide. These are issues that also concern social welfare services. But in general, once again, the population register is not related to this issue. However, it offers better opportunities for social workers to get in touch with people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U56	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U57	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Please, we'll go to page 62 of the explanatory note together. It says here that the population register of persons with the status of subject will be extended, if I understand correctly, to foreigners who have just submitted an application for a residence permit or an extension of the right of residence, but for whom the residence permit has not yet been granted. The same paragraph ends with the explanation that this is a significant change, as subjects in the population register are guaranteed the rights and obligations attached to the status of the subject. Could you give some clarification on the rights and obligations that extend to applicants for the extension of the residence permit?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U58	Thank you, that's a good question! This includes the e-resident. It is not under this law that these people will have access to rights of any kind, I don't know, social services or anything like that. The information required for the state is also available in the local government. Even if a person is still applying for a right of residence, a residence permit, he or she does not need to be in a cage. He doesn't have to be in Harku or anywhere like this. Or even if it is, the state needs to know that a person is registered there, and he will be communicated through this address when dealing with his family or whatever it takes. For example, if a person is at Vaol or is waiting for a residence permit, being at another address, he or she has certain rights and obligations. He is not on Estonian territory with a visa or as a tourist, but hopes that this country will be his place of residence, and he will carry out these preliminary operations precisely for the purpose of making sure that officials know where he is, where his family is, and be able to contact him. Once he or she has obtained a residence permit, he or she will also use social services based on the address in which he or she resides.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U59	Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U60	Thank you, Minister. I have a practical question. The local government level was already slightly touched here. If a well-paid person has registered with the local government, it is useful for the local government to keep this person in its register. But if several families with children are registered in one place and the municipality sees that these families do not actually live in this apartment, is the local government entitled to take steps to get these people to check out? How do these things work?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U61	Thank you, Inara! In fact, if the local government receives information that these people do not actually live there, it will start the administrative procedure and get that entry deleted. People have the right to protest, but if there is still reason to believe that these people do not actually live there, the local government will collect evidence and make its own decisions based on them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U62	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U63	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! That's a question of self-esteem. The explanatory memorandum says that ethnicity and native language rarely change. How rarely do they change, and how? Can you tell me?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U64	I'm about to unravel the explanatory statement. I know what you're thinking about, this is the segment where we're talking about the series. Okay, page 15, second paragraph. It has been said that as of 1 April 2016, 90.2% of the nationality data had been completed, 63.73% of the education data had been completed, 83.55% of the mother tongue data had been completed. These figures indicate indirectly how important people view one information or another. At the same time, nationalities and native languages are data that are very much a matter of a person's own conscience. It all depends on who he feels, and according to it, he makes these entries.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U65	Marko Šorin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U66	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I just wanted to take the floor because several times a couple of words have been used here to write 'out'. In fact, in the Republic of Estonia, you cannot sign out, you can sign in to a new place. But a very interesting question was raised by Monika Haukanõm and Inara Luigas. Is it possible for local governments to draw people with social problems from one another? Maybe they want to move people like that. Does this new law also take into account the possibility that an official in a larger city will sign up to a neighborhood government, for example, to get rid of the problem? Such examples actually exist. One of today's papers says that Nõmme's district government is dealing with such a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U67	It is very regrettable if there are such problems. The state is not going to put cops next to all government officials and it doesn't have to. I think most officials are decent and do their job in good faith. If someone is acting illegally, it is possible to appeal to the Ministry of the Interior about his work, and the Ministry of the Interior will certainly take this very seriously. However, there are also examples to the contrary: the misuse of the population register has led to a large number of proceedings. I may be wrong, but either in this explanatory statement or in any other document it says that there are numerous cases. It also says that when we talk about another part of the city, it is not another municipality. There's maybe some other thing in Nõmme, I don't know. However, if we are talking about Tallinn and Harku rural municipality, for example, one official cannot randomly write the residents into another municipality, as God directs. It's out of the question. The municipal official may only make entry and check-out entries during the administrative procedure, while the citizens still make their own entries. So you can't play any Tetris there, I dare say so. As far as the legal aspect is concerned, if you find that any of the draft terms are not good , then you have the sacred right to propose amendments. Welcome! This bill awaits your serious discussion. It is a large and voluminous bill and affects all people in Estonia. This is one of the few future laws that will affect us all on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U68	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I looked at chapter 7 of the explanatory memorandum, i.e. the costs of implementing the law. It can be understood that the law entails EUR 50000 for IT developments in the population register and EUR 14000 for the development of the register of state detainees, detentions, arrests and arrests. In total, it will amount to EUR 64000. At the same time, it has been said that costs may also be incurred in developing the Health Insurance Fund register, the Social Services and Support Data Register and the new Social Protection Information System (SKAIS2). We know the big problems involved. It seems to me that these costs have been estimated to be very low and, in the case of certain registers, it has not been considered at all important to predict how much they will cost. Aren't these costs a little underrated? That's what I'm getting at.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U70	I had the same impression at first, but since I have met with the SMIT task force responsible for developing the population register, I dare say to you that their expenditure has already been planned in previous budgets. These amounts have already been allocated, work is ongoing and no additional costs have yet been shown for the development of other registers and, in my opinion, they do not. These work involves more compatibility, for example, through the X-Road, and so on. Should these costs arise, they will be covered in particular by the RIA, the responsible developer of the X-Road. But I don't see a problem with that right now. I have been very interested in this, these sums have been allocated, and I do not see the risk of some kind of "overflow."
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U71	Thank you, Minister and colleagues, for a meaningful round of questions and answers. Mart Nutt, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will present the Chair on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft law at its regular meeting on 20 February. Visitors were also invited: Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt, Adviser to the Minister of the Interior Ramon Loik and Head of the Department of Population Operations of the Ministry of the Interior Enel Pungas. At the meeting of the Commission, the Minister gave a comprehensive overview of the reasons for this draft and also presented the content of the draft. The members of the committee, Jüri Adams, Mart Nutt, Helmut Hallemaa, Peeter Ernits and Jaak Madison, asked questions during the meeting. The questions that have been raised, I bring out as a package, it makes no sense for me to read the protocol literally. First of all, why is the bill different from the previous law, and would it not have been enough if the existing law had been improved? This question was answered by the Minister of the Interior in the same way as today. Secondly, are censuses planned on a registry basis? The answer is that this is undoubtedly a more distant goal. It is possible that the next census will be made on a registry basis. What does the registration of the place of stay provide? To this, too, the Minister gave the same answer as today. How long has the bill been prepared? Mrs Bungas replied that the draft had been in place for three or four years, so the preparation period has been quite long. There was also a question that motivates people to submit their data to the population register. It also received the same answer as today. Jüri Adams was critical of this draft. He noted that the draft does not improve any of the failed provisions of the current Population Register Act. The entries in the population register are still not given legal meaning and the accuracy of this data is only expected. In procedural decisions, however, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was unanimous, and all decisions were taken by consensus. First, it was proposed that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 7 March. Next, it was proposed that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be 15 working days, which is 28 March 2017 at 5.15 p.m. Mart Nutt, Member of the Commission, was appointed rapporteur. Ken-Marti Vaher, Jüri Adams, Anneli Ott, Helmut Hallemaa, Mart Nutt and Peeter Ernits voted consensually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U73	The first question is put to the rapporteur, Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! If, in the committee, this draft law was under discussion, and the honourable colleague Jüri Adams made a very strong criticism there that this draft law does not improve anything, but is only expected to continue to be correct, did the Commission also discuss this criticism, its reasons and its justification?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U75	Thank you. That was Jüri Adams' line. Mr Adams sits in the Chamber and the Commission itself took note of this criticism. However, as can be seen from the result of the vote, Jüri Adams is not really against this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U76	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U77	Thank you. Honourable waitress! We all know that Estonia has actually been subject to such a relatively free entry, if I want to, I live today in Tallinn, tomorrow in Narva, and the day after tomorrow I will be registered in Võru. Was the Commission also discussing the inclusion of neighbouring countries, such as Finland, in the data register? In my opinion, these rules are much stricter in Finland. If a person changes his or her place of residence, he or she must report it to somewhere within 30 days, I do not know what institution it is and pay the state fee for it. And when we went to Russia in Siberia a few years ago, we had to register there immediately. Did the Commission, for example, discuss the Finnish national practice of what the rules are? And are we going to follow Finn rules, or are we going to continue with the same free entry rules?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U78	Thank you. This issue was briefly addressed, but there was no uniform procedure in which the population register has a fixed residence, in fact there is no world. There are very different practices in different countries. I do not quite agree that Estonia is very liberal this time. There are countries in the world where no residence is registered at all. As far as I am concerned, there is a British system of countries where such a requirement is considered to be a very strong barrier to personal liberty. The rules have been liberalised in Finland. In the past, a person was punished when he either made false statements or failed to provide his residence details, but this sanction was lifted. This was done for a number of reasons. Firstly, it was found that this sanction actually overburdens the country administratively and, at the same time, does not have the effect that it might seem. In a police state like the Soviet Union and now the Russian Federation could put you behind bars if you break the rules of entry. You can't do that in a democratic country. In this sense, it seems to me that the rules of Estonia and Finland are not very different at the moment. My personal opinion, however, is that imposing a sanction for non-reporting is an exaggeration.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U79	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I ask you this from the previous question. Am I correct to understand that this bill is rather a product of professional thematic development, that it is not a result of any previous coalition agreement? Would you describe it more closely? One question is this axis of liberalisation and non-liberalism, which direction Estonia should move in. But here, too, the question is that the freedom to register a place of residence probably allows quite a lot of hypocrisy, even in the case of a single-living pensioner. And practice shows that there is more cheating. How can you resist it? And what is your view on this issue, could we clearly establish a system of two residences in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U81	There were a lot of questions right here. Most of them could have been submitted to the initiator, not to the Commission rapporteur, because the Commission did not address these issues in depth. But I'm trying to analyze a few issues. First of all, as the initiators explained, this draft has been prepared for several years. This is not an initiative of the current coalition; it is probably not an initiative of the previous coalition; it has already been put on the table earlier. In short, this is not about a coalition. Whether or not the bill is an official product, how can it be measured? This is probably to some extent because indeed one authority prepared it, and the same authority basically complies with that law. But this is also a question for the initiator rather than the Commission's waitress. Thirdly, the issue of residence registration. I don't think there's a perfect solution here. Again, the question is more for the initiator, but he did not ask. I think that this mechanism, which is currently in place in Estonia and which basically does not change, will probably satisfy our needs. Move towards registration of two or perhaps more residences? I think it's actually pretty smart and meaningful, considering people's movements. However, as the Minister for the Interior pointed out, this brings to the table a number of issues that need to be considered, particularly tax issues. If you speculate, the solution could be that people define their place of residence in order of importance or, for example, the place of residence where taxes are paid, where their mail comes from and where official communications are sent. A person must be available. That is, in principle, possible and it is possible that we are moving in this direction. But the bill is now at the stage of the first reading. With common forces, we may be able to make some improvements before the second reading, or if we are not ready now, we will have to return to them later.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U82	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U83	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Commission waitress. Why is the registration of a person's place of residence treated as an obligation to the State and sanctions are imposed in the event of non-compliance with that obligation? It is rather a matter of loyalty and the normal duty of a citizen.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U84	In fact, you asked a question that already had an answer. That's right, there's no sanction in it. This obligation is a fixed obligation in this sense to make a person aware: it is ultimately in the interests of communication between him and the state that he or she has a place of residence. But if the person doesn't give his address, no one will cuff him, at least not in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U85	Dear waitress, thank you. No more questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U86	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! According to theory, the first reading of the bill means seeking an answer to two questions. Firstly, whether such a law or an amendment to the law is necessary at all, and secondly, whether the proposed draft is suitable as the basis for the proposed amendment. It is quite difficult to answer these questions now. The idea behind this draft is that in Estonia, as in many other European countries, censuses are abandoned in a classic way, that the censuser goes from person to person and writes answers or his own observations. Transferring to another type of census that has been called a registry-based census. In all kinds of censuses, opinion polls, and surveys, it is always the case that we never have reason to claim that their results reflect real life. More importantly, the same errors would be in the same order of magnitude next time, so it can be seen that there has been a change between now and now. But when the error rate suddenly decreases or increases, things are complicated. I have tried to follow the writings that my own mathematics teacher, current professor of emeritus Ene-Margit Tiit, has published in many places, also in the journal Academy, and I have realised that there are basically the following risks in the case of a registry-based census. First of all, the fact that data on how many people are married and what households are are likely to become less and less reliable. I don't know how exponentially. However, the information concerning residential buildings and other buildings becomes exponentially unreliable due to the low reliability of the registers. That is what these writings have claimed. It is very difficult to decide now whether all the proposed changes are in the service of a registry-based census or whether there are any changes introduced for other reasons. One ordinary member of the Riigikogu cannot orient in these matters. But it certainly stands out that all the contradictions and false assumptions that have haunted the population register since the beginning remain in more or less the same form. The number of false entries is likely to increase. May I ask for more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U87	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U88	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the course of the current administrative reform, where everything has been based on a wonderful figure of 5,000, one popular action has been launched in Estonia. In fact, the population register has begun to change its residence data. I've got a whole bunch of people who, in order to contribute to the survival of a local government, have signed up for another county. Can I assess how many counterfeits have appeared in the population register in connection with the administrative reform? I'd say at least 1,000 per cup of coffee, I suppose. The question is how much confidence the current population register is. There hasn't been any research done. I've tried to ask people I know, and you can all do the same and see how many people know who can say for sure that any entry in the population register about them is not true. There are about 25% of these people in my community, but maybe this 25% is not reliable. I suppose the correct figure is between 10% and 25%, so high is the amount of false data. I asked my groupmate, Monika Haukanõmme, how many people are affected by the support of a pensioner living alone. It's supposed to affect about 85,000 people. I am now assuming that some 10,000 false entries will appear in the population register in connection with this. Soon, the credibility of our population register will probably be only 50%, and then there will be a question of where we will end up. I am saying that a good country must not put people in a situation where it is either mandatory or useful to provide any false information to the state. The country that does this is not a good country. It is not the right country, too, where there is an increasing number of social wrongs. We come from the Soviet regime, where almost all the official information was wrong. Today, we can see that, at least compared to the 1990s, this false bubble has grown. Current entries in the population register have become an obstacle to the modernisation of a number of things that would be needed in Estonia. For example, we have a question of political rights, including the right to vote in elections and the right to stand as a candidate. Similarly, there is an example of taxation and social benefits. The general attitude of the Free Party Group is as follows: We understand there is a need for censuses. Surely we are not sorry that people who carry them out are getting their daily bread. But does it have to be achieved at the cost of increasing the degree of falsehood of a misplaced construction from the outset? I'm not sure. We have two possibilities here in the Riigikogu: either the government coalition brands this bill into a law, or we make a joint decision that we will review the whole area from the beginning to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U89	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 382. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 382 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 28 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U90	The fifth item is the first reading of draft 389 of the Riigikogu's decision to increase the State guarantee granted to the Nordic Investment Bank. On behalf of the performers, please present the speech chair to Minister of Finance Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I give an overview of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the increase of the State guarantee granted to the Nordic Investment Bank, which is numbered 389. With this draft, the state of Estonia will increase the guarantees in the Nordic Investment Bank by 3.9 million euros. (I will use the abbreviation NIB in my speech on the Nordic Investment Bank.) To this end, the Statute of the NIB, which was ratified by the Riigikogu in 2004, together with the Accession Treaty, will be amended. According to the draft decision, the State guarantee for two NIB loan facilities will increase. Firstly, the State guarantee on project-based investment loans and project-based investment guarantees will increase to EUR 16,5 million, i.e. by an amount of EUR 3,35 million. Secondly, the guarantee for environmental investment loans and guarantees for environmental investment loans will increase to EUR 2,7 million, representing an increase of EUR 550000. The reason for the amendment is not the additional capital requirement of the NIB or the increase in operational risks, but rather the harmonisation of the States' participation in the share capital and guarantees of the NIB. In the context of the capital increase, the State's share capital in the paid-up and callable portion of the capital and in the guarantees has been unevenly distributed. The amendment brings the percentage participations to a single level. Estonia's share capital and guarantees of NIB will rise to 0.9%. So far, our paid-up participation and guarantees have been at a level of 0.7%, which increases from 0.7% to 0.9%. The positive impact on Estonia is that dividends from the NIB are increasing. Unlike other international financial institutions of which Estonia is a member, the NIB has been a regular dividend payer. For example, Estonia received EUR 401000 per year on a pro rata basis in 2014-2016. The Estonian dividend forecast is 495000 euros instead of 401000 euros in the case of adjusted new shares, which is 0.9% of the share capital. However, the probability of the two loan instruments being realised is low. During the current 40 years of operation, the bank guarantee has only been realised for one project. The risk management policy of the NIB is rigorous and the activity has been profitable. For example, the profit of the bank in 2015 was EUR 215 million. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! After obtaining Estonia's consent to increase the guarantees, the NIB's package of amendments will enter into force, as then all NIB Member States will have national procedures for adjusting both the equity holdings and the guarantees. NIB will then conclude new guarantee agreements with Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U92	There is at least one question for the Minister. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U93	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, In the Committee on Finance, when we were discussing this topic in preparation for the first reading, Mr Helmel, if I remember correctly, was the question that, due to the correction of these guarantees, payment was transferred on 26 January, an increase of EUR 778000. How could this happen before we made this decision in the Riigikogu? The answer was that this amount was in the budget of the Ministry of Finance for 2017. Can you describe how this amount, EUR 778378, has been entered in the budget of the Ministry of Finance for 2017?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U94	Thank you. The payment is really planned for the 2017 state budget, which has been approved by the Riigikogu, so it is not necessary to ask for consent again. For example, let's look at different guarantees, compare EFSF with this guarantee. They're both guarantees, but what's the difference? The guarantees given to the EFSF, which gave guarantees to Greece, Ireland and Portugal, are also taken into account in the public debt ratio. This debt burden will gradually decrease if EFSF reimburses guarantees on the basis of a loan schedule or reduces the amount of guarantees. Guarantees by other international institutions are not included in the debt ratio, only if the State incurs a burden and expense, they are included in the debt ratio. Right now, we've been acting on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U95	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U96	Good manager! Good minister! I wanted to ask the exact same question. You answered it so I couldn't understand a damn thing. On 26 January we paid EUR 778378 and 36 cents to this Nordic bank, but it is already March and we are still discussing whether to increase this state guarantee. Does that mean we're essentially a rubber stamp because the money's been transferred and now we're playing dumb here to say the language of the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U97	Thank you. It's not like that. We're talking about two things. You asked about the guarantees and gave an example of the capital to be paid up and paid up. We have paid off the capital to be recovered and thereby reduced our proportionate contribution to it. What we are talking about today is the guarantee of two specific projects by the bank, which we need to bring into line with our percentage share, as our participation has increased from 0.7% to 0.9%. These are two different things: guarantees and paid-up capital.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U98	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I also have to say that I didn't understand anything about your answer. You started talking about debt instead of debt. I looked into it a little bit on my own. For this transfer of EUR 778000, which was made due to the increase in these guarantees, neither the text of the Budget Act nor the explanatory memorandum nor the text of the Budget Act, nor the explanatory memorandum, are there any shortcomings in the 2017 budget. This money, EUR 778000, is included in the amount of the increase in the financial commitment of the Ministry of Finance of EUR 27 million. How does a member of the Riigikogu need to know that he has agreed to transfer 778000 euros with the adoption of the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U100	Thank you. I will try to explain to you once again the law that you yourself have passed. We had before and still have a two-part structure, all the Member States that are parties to the Nordic Investment Bank. Estonia's previous participation in the total capital was 0.7%, the amount was 3055000 euros, it is the paid-up capital. Now we're adjusting the level from 0.7% to 0.9%. As a result, we will increase, as you said, by EUR 778000 of your paid-up share capital. At the same time, our callable capital will decrease in exactly the same proportion. Most of these financial instruments have two sides: really paid-up capital and callable capital. Exactly the same amount will decrease our potential callable share capital so that, proportionately, our liabilities have not increased. When we talk about guarantees, our position changes and we assume additional obligations, which is why this bill is still in the proceedings of the Riigikogu. The decision of this Riigikogu does not increase from 0.7% to 0.9% not the amount of capital to be paid or charged, but the level of guarantees, we take an increased commitment of 3.9 million. That is why we need to discuss this in the Riigikogu today. Once again, we had paid up EUR 3055000 in the past and the capital to be recovered was EUR 53198000, and now we have an increase of EUR 778000 in paid-up capital and reduced the capital to be recovered, the sum of which is exactly one figure. I hope I've explained as thoroughly as possible, twice as much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U101	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U102	Good manager! Good minister! I would like to repeat again the question of Aivar Sõerd, but I am actually asking a much wider question. We in the group discussed this draft and, frankly, no one understood it well. It seems that there are quite a number of such people in the Riigikogu. Why don't you speak more widely? What's all this for, and aren't we rubber stamps here right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U103	Thank you. So I'm really going to do a broader picture. Let's get to it from a distance. This historical rate may also be good for those members of the Riigikogu who are in parliament for the first time and who have previously had no reason to come into contact with the state guarantee granted to the Nordic Investment Bank. I'm gonna go a long way. The Nordic Investment Bank was established 40 years ago, in 1976. The founders of this bank were the Nordic countries, which at that time were five: Iceland, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark. Now the question arises as to why this bank was created, what was the purpose of this bank once before, and what is it now. It has been made very clear that the purpose of this bank is to strengthen and develop cooperation and export in the Nordic countries. This is a primary and fundamental objective. Three new countries, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, became shareholders of the Bank on 1 January 2005. Ratification took place in the previous year, in the autumn of 2004. Whoever has been in the Riigikogu since then remembers that the size of their GDP was taken into account when the three countries joined. Still, the main objective is to strengthen competitiveness and improve the environment. This is all that is important in value terms, starting with cleaner production and ending with a reduction in pollution. Estonia's participation, as I said, was 0.7% in the past. In 2011, the share capital was adjusted. Why is 0.7% even turning to 0.9%? The adjustment increased the bank's capital, as you remember, and I mentioned that there was paid-up capital and called-up capital from EUR 4.1 billion, which the bank had at the time, by EUR 2 billion, to EUR 6.1 billion. This was not done by requiring additional money from countries, but by changing these proportions at the expense of existing reserves. Technical calculations have been made today and GDP in all countries has been reviewed. So that's why our share is going to increase from 0.7% to 0.9%. Taking all this long story together, it can be said that this bank, co-owned by eight countries, is designed to improve Nordic exports and strengthen environmental activities in the Nordic countries. As a shareholder of the NIB, we have received a loan from the NIB, both for private business and for the State. NIB has positions in Estonia in the order of 220 million euros. Many have received loans, from Tallinn's tram and trolleybus icons to the airport, if I am not mistaken. Similar financial instruments owned by countries are still available in Europe: the EBRD is a classic institution, as well as the EIB. The NIB is basically their analogue, it's just owned by eight Nordic countries. As I mentioned earlier, unlike many financial institutions, the NIB has paid dividends, which very many banks do not do. If I'm not mistaken, maybe in a few years after the crisis, he didn't pay dividends while making a profit. But in other years, he has paid dividends, including in all recent years. As I mentioned, Estonia's participation in this bank has created the fact that we have received around EUR 400000 of dividends each year. In general, dividends are not paid because banks normally direct the profits they generate to strengthen the bank's reserve capital. It has been very important for the bank to hold AAA ratings all along the way. This is also one of the reasons why in 2011 the share capital was further increased by means of reserves. I have now tried to give you a relatively comprehensive overview of the NIB.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U104	Thank you, honored waitress. No further questions for you. Aivar Sõerd, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, will present the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U105	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Commission prepared the first reading of the draft increase in the State guarantee granted to the Nordic Investment Bank at its meeting on 20 February. As the initiators' representative, Andres Kuninga, Head of the Department of European Union and International Cooperation of the Ministry of Finance, presented the draft. The content of the draft was already described by the minister. I will now give an overview of the issues we discussed in the Commission. The members of the Commission asked whether the changes made to this draft decision were inevitable and whether they could be challenged. The reply was that at the Annual Meeting of the Investment Bank in May 2016, the Bank announced proposals to correct the differences between the paid-up capital, the callable capital and the percentage holdings of total capital that arose from the repeated capital increases in previous years. The increase in the paid-up share of Estonia from 0.7% to 0.9% does not mean that additional financial commitments are made to the state, as Estonia's callable capital will be reduced by the same amount. They asked if Brexit would make a difference. The answer was that there is no direct link, no major impact, but indirectly the increased uncertainty in the economy may affect the bank's activities. The British are not partners of this bank; the members of the investment bank are Estonia, Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark. The reference in the explanatory memorandum to the transfer of EUR 778000 on 26 January was noted to the colleague. They asked how it happened. The answer was that it was carried out in accordance with § 23 (1) of the Foreign Communications Act, according to which the Government of the Republic or the government authority empowered to do so would ensure the performance of the foreign contract. The funds necessary for Estonia's additional contribution, EUR 778378, were, according to the respondent, the planned area of government of the Ministry of Finance to the 2017 budget and the payment to the bank was made by the Ministry of Finance on 26 January 2017. The members of the Commission also asked how State guarantees were regulated in the basic law on the state budget. The answer was that the decision to grant a specific state guarantee is made by the Riigikogu and Estonia's potential obligation to secure bank loans will increase by 3904894 euros. The Riigikogu has agreed to guarantee loan instruments to the extent specified in the Bank's Statute. The increase in Estonia's guarantee obligations means taking on potential additional obligations for the state, which, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, can be decided by a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. After adjusting the guarantee liabilities, the Bank will conclude new guarantee agreements with the States, which will invalidate the earlier guarantee agreements concluded in 2004. It was also asked whether these changes would affect the fiscal position of the country. As explained by the representative of the Ministry, they do not change the budgetary balance since it is a financing transaction. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: Firstly, it was proposed to send the draft to the plenary of the Riigikogu by Tuesday, 7 March. Secondly, it was decided to propose the termination of the first reading. Thirdly, it was proposed that the deadline for the submission of amendments be set at 4 working days, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 13 March. Of course, the Commission decided to call me a waitress. I will also say that all the decisions taken in the Commission were taken in a consensual manner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U106	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Aivar Sõerd! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. First reading of Bill 389 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 13 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U107	The first reading of the Bill 364 on Supplementing the Social Tax Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, begins. Andres Ammas, the opening waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U108	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The Free Party Group has already submitted a similar draft to the procedure for the third time. You may ask why such consistency has not previously been supported by the majority of the Riigikogu. Firstly, we would also like this draft to be discussed by the new government coalition, which has promised to do everything in its words to ensure that economic growth is greater. Secondly, and this may be even more important, the tax system has changed with the introduction of the new government coalition. In addition to the significant increase in the tax-free minimum, progressive income tax has been introduced. Critics of the social tax ceiling have previously argued that this measure is not working well enough in a proportionate tax system situation, but now we are in a completely new situation and the initiators of the draft consider it worth reconsidering the idea of a social tax ceiling. The social tax ceiling is the upper limit of salary from which no social tax is paid. This ceiling has been set at various levels in different countries at different times. In Estonia, for example, it has previously been proposed to set the ceiling at three times the average wage level. This has been the idea of the House for the Service Economy. The head of the Employers' Confederation has offered at a conference that the ceiling could be at the level of the President's salary. The question is how to find an optimal balance so that this measure has a tangible impact and the revenue from the creation of new jobs really compensates for the budget deficit. As a result of the discussion, the Free Party Group has found in the draft under discussion that the ceiling is set at four times the median wage, i.e. approximately EUR 3500. However, if there is convincing justification in the procedure for setting the ceiling higher or lower, the initiators of the draft shall be fully open for such discussions and shall be cooperative. It is, of course, important to take account of the conditions of neighbouring countries, so that the movement of highly paid specialists from neighbouring countries to Estonia is still taking place, not the other way around. In the autumn of 2015, the Minister of Justice convened a steering group consisting of entrepreneurs and organisations and associations bringing them together to jointly identify the areas that hinder entrepreneurship and most need to be changed, and to make proposals at all, on how to encourage entrepreneurship and boost economic life. Point 3 of the tax part of this report provides for the introduction of a maximum social tax rate. Why is a social tax ceiling a good idea? It does indeed have a short-term negative effect on the income of social tax, but in the long term it undoubtedly motivates highly qualified professionals to come to Estonia and stay here and gives an internationally important signal that Estonia promotes high-paid jobs. Over time, such a positive impact in our assessment will only increase. The Government of the Republic, neither the previous nor the present, has supported the Free Party's initiative to introduce a social tax ceiling. Probably just a hole in the state budget is feared, although other reasons have been given. It is interesting to note that the estimated gap in the state budget has increased significantly on the basis of the Ministry's new calculations and is expected to be EUR 118 million in 2018 instead of EUR 92 million. However, one of the tasks of the tax system, in addition to ensuring tax revenue for the State, is undoubtedly also to motivate the desired behaviour and this should be borne in mind. The opponents of the idea of a social tax ceiling have stressed that it is important that our social tax system is based on solidarity. Indeed, but in order for a tax system to function well, taxpayers must perceive it as a fair system. According to the idea of the bill, the employee paying the social tax limited to the social tax ceiling would still pay four times the social tax of the beneficiary of the median wage, several times the minimum wage, but people who have paid the tax to different degrees will still receive the same amount of social tax. Paying more than ten times more for a similar service inevitably creates a sense of injustice, which can very much motivate such an unfair tax burden to be avoided. Since the payer of such a large social tax has no or no conviction that the social tax paid by him has anything to do with future benefits, the pressure arises to avoid or conceal such a high salary and corresponding labour tax, to take the employment relationship fictitiously or actually to another country, to show its income as a business income (this is the infamous OÜ) or simply to use envelope wages. In its negative opinion on the idea of the Free Party, the Government of the Republic has stated that a proportionally lower social tax burden does not motivate a higher salary. In the opinion of the initiators of the draft act, this argument does not make sense. If the growing added value created by the contractor provides a reasonable basis for charging the employer a higher salary, this is actually required. However, social tax, which is due under the current regime, prevents the employer from raising his salary. In criticising this idea, the so-called Latvian example has also often been used, where the introduction of a social tax ceiling has allegedly not justified itself. In the opinion of the initiators of the draft act, Latvia's economic and monetary policy should be analysed more seriously and in a more comprehensive manner before drawing such conclusions. Perhaps there were other factors that prevented job growth. How do I set a suitable ceiling height? The initiators of the draft act have offered to link social tax to the median salary of the ceiling. This is a salary of which 50% of the recipients receive a higher and 50% lower remuneration. According to the initiators of the draft act, the average wage describes the state of the Estonian economy and the recipient of the salary a little misaligned; the median wage indicates the economic situation more adequately. The changes in the economic possibilities of the main wage earners are described in more detail by the median wage. In order to be able to understand precisely, you could use a word game such that the average wage recipient in Estonia is not the recipient of the average wage. In carrying out the idea of a social tax ceiling, the initiators of the draft are also prepared to discuss the technical details. We have offered to use the information from the Tax and Customs Board and the average of three quarters. If the Ministry of Finance or colleagues from other political groups have better and more convincing ideas, they are welcome. In our opinion, it is important to link this threshold to some dynamic indicator in any case, so that changes in the Estonian economy and the labour market can be better taken into account and the budget will not suffer unexpected excessive damage. The Ministry of Finance has calculated the methodology we have proposed in a negative assessment by the government. But, gentlemen of the ministry, it is your duty to analyse. Do not throw the baby out with the washing water, but then propose a better solution for calculation. But let us admit that the idea of a social tax ceiling has a complexion. Let's keep talking about this together. It is, of course, difficult to calculate precisely how quickly the social tax ceiling has a longer-term impact and how much it is. For example, according to the report of the Competitiveness Steering Group, already called by the Ministry of Justice, it is estimated that a social tax ceiling would contribute to the creation of 11 high-paid jobs in addition to each of the 10 jobs above the average, without increasing the total labour costs of the employer. It's been calculated by specialists. The idea is not new and we are far from claiming the authorship of the idea of a social tax ceiling. At different times, several politicians have supported it, as have several Estonian opinion leaders, economic journalists and business organisations. Both the Service Economy Chamber and the Estonian Employers' Confederation have expressed very clear support for the introduction of a social tax ceiling. Employers have made it clear that the introduction of a social tax ceiling is fair and necessary for economic development. They have put forward precisely the same argument, which I have already made, that a high-wage worker does not consume four times as much national health insurance as a person receiving median pay. In the light of the recent news from the government, employers have added another important comment here, namely, if in the future the employee's pension is no longer dependent on income, then the social tax ceiling is even more justified. In the letter of the Confederation of Employers to the Government of the Republic, it has also been stressed that the government has set a progressive tax-free minimum, which is why employees with a higher salary lose out. In the opinion of employers, it is also important that the introduction of a social tax ceiling is economically beneficial for everyone, as the Estonian economy is currently in a phase where innovation is needed primarily for sustainable business activities, which in turn requires the availability of a skilled workforce, but this skilled workforce is highly remunerated. During the discussion of the idea of a social tax ceiling, there have been different views, who are still the high-wage workers in Estonia for whom this ceiling would be working and in which sector they are working. There are no precise statistics at our disposal on this, but it is very interesting that the assessment by the Confederation of Employers that the top-up of social tax would not benefit the most from the IT sector or the banking sector, which is mostly called in this context, but the industrial sector. Employers estimate that this sector accounts for 16% of the Estonian economy and needs innovation to improve competitiveness right now. So it is not only about the specific jobs that this issue of the social tax ceiling would directly concern (about 12,000 were calculated earlier and according to the latest data from the Ministry of Finance, it is about 16,000), but actually also about everyone else. Finally, I would like to remind you of one news from last week, quite a quote, which I think is very colorful and eloquent. In fact, Ülo Kaasik, Deputy Governor of Eesti Pank, said at a conference that entrepreneurs have been less and less satisfied with state policy lately and the task of the state could be to bring back the eyes of bright entrepreneurs. According to the Companion, the problem of labour has been identified as one of the problems faced by businesses. Kaasik said that in order for companies to grow more, it is certainly important that there should be a'research-based shift' in the Estonian economy. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas has promised that his government will take account of the opposition's proposals. Please, esteemed coalition, one way to do this is in front of you. Undoubtedly, the introduction of a social tax ceiling would be a very powerful sign of the business-friendliness of the Estonian rulers, and it would probably bring the missing shine back to the eyes of entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U109	Questions for the waitress. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! This issue has been on the table for quite a long time, and I therefore ask this question: how have the views of the political forces changed during this period? It had turned out that business organisations had already responded in their opinions that the tax environment had changed by referring to progressive income tax and that there was a plan to change the pension system. All of this should require a re-evaluation of positions. Has such re-evaluation been seen and heard?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U111	Yes, of course it is. I have read about this subject from Äripäev and maybe somewhere else there have been such ideas, at least in the last seven or eight years. A number of IRL members, as I recall the current Minister of Finance, have supported the idea of a social tax ceiling in the past. As far as I know, at least some politicians in the Reform Party have supported this idea. I can't quote you right now, I'm sorry about that. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, we had a brief discussion of this. Members of the Reform Party in the hall, colleagues Aivar and Jürgen have not supported this idea. But I remember that similar ideas have been heard from the ranks of the Reform Party. Colleagues of the Social Democrats have been skeptical, as I recall, on the basis of the principle of solidarity, even the Chairman of the honourable Riigikogu has expressed this scepticism. Ladies and gentlemen of the Centre Party acted as members of the Monetary Commission in opposition to the drafts initiated by the Government, as the members of the opposition always do, and now, as members of the coalition, they behave as the members of the coalition do.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U112	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U113	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Recently, I sent Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu Enn Eesmaa on a visit to Tartumaa, and we visited Enics there, South Estonia probably one of the biggest employers. When we asked the leader of Enics what we could do here in the Riigikogu, his only answer was to introduce a social tax ceiling. How many more companies like Enics who would like it and who would need it to hire high-paid workers?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U114	I cannot name the number of these companies, dear colleague, but I have at my disposal the data of the Ministry of Finance on how many people and jobs this idea would now be affected. If this ceiling were to be set at the level of EUR 3500 we offered, then next year, according to the Ministry of Finance, this would affect 16510 employees. Here is such a comparison table in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that this table is likely to be available, which shows a change in this figure. If, for example, the ceiling was set at EUR 4000, people would be affected by just over 10,000. That's a pretty big difference, and you need to look for balance. Lowering the ceiling to EUR 3000 would affect 28,500 people. It was about the ceiling level. The statistics, the number of these entrepreneurs, I'm sorry, we don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U115	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U116	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable waitress! The idea certainly deserves a debate, that is my position. I was watching party programs. It's hard to orientate in them, of course, but I found that the IRL has a black white letter in the program that they put a ceiling on social tax to encourage the creation of high-wage, smart jobs. If you have sought support for your draft, the IRL has certainly been its supporter, as they have it in the programme. Are they opposed to this idea in principle now, or could you agree if this bill were to be improved a little bit or something changed there? What's the IRL's position? They've got it in the program.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U117	Thank you. I have no record of the positions of the IRL Panels or the governing bodies. If it's listed in the program, I hope this principle is valid. The decisions taken by IRL politicians in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on this draft were slightly different. One representative of the IRL voted in favour of excluding this draft from the procedure; another representative of the IRL, who is also a well-known entrepreneur, Mr Einar, did not take part in this vote. I am hopeful that the IRL could find support for this draft. I would like to stress once again that, as our initiators, there is neither the limit nor the methodology for calculating this average. Here we are open to proposals, but we think that this idea has a complexion and it deserves to be discussed. We have been a little amazed by the fact that this idea was immediately discarded in previous proceedings without, as Mr Aivar said, trying to fix it somehow. This is such an important and fundamental change in the Estonian tax system that it would undoubtedly not be appropriate if it were just the idea of a coalition or opposition. This decision deserves greater consensus. Will we ever think about what will happen in the Estonian economy in 10 or 20 years, or will we only worry about how the budget will come together for the next year or the next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U118	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U119	Honourable Chairman! Good waitress! Entrepreneurship and business must definitely be supported. I also think that all the steps are worth considering and discussing here. But what motivates me to ask is the comparison in your report when you talked about an increase in tax-free income, which many will win, is estimated to be up to 86% of people. High-wage earners will pay more, and this'more' is 32 euros. Personally, I would be willing to pay much more than 32 euros. Is this more payment not primarily a world-view assessment here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U120	Thank you. I think that very many people in this Chamber, I among them, would kindly be willing to pay more tax on their income if it reduced the inequality that existed in Estonian society so far and somehow alleviated the situation. It is not just a question of reducing inequalities, which is perhaps a more ideological problem. The question is whether this step will stimulate the Estonian economy a little, whether we will give entrepreneurs more of the sense of activity and the desire to act, or whether we will be more suspicious of them, as has been the case with any of the government's recent initiatives or proposals. It's a matter of attitudes. The success or failure of the idea of a social tax ceiling is a bit of a matter of faith. I'm sorry if that expression seems a little inappropriate to you! In this sense, the question of whether we are convinced that such a long-term policy will lead to success, or whether we are not convinced of it. There is not one single answer. The initiators of the bill believe that this will lead to success in the long term. I wouldn't stand in the way of people with lower and higher incomes. On the contrary, I say once again, I think that employers have said very nicely and well that, in the end, if productivity increases, it will bring everyone a return.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U121	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U122	Good manager! Good waitress! I like the idea of imposing a social tax ceiling. You told me how high this ceiling could be and how many of these people could be, but try to give an overview of the relationship between the height of this ceiling and the size of the hole in the state budget. You said this hole was 92-118 million. But still, what's the connection between the ceiling height and the size of the hole?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U123	I'd love to. It would be easier if you could look at the bill. But I'd be happy to read some of the records from the Treasury Department. If this ceiling were EUR 3500 per month, the Ministry of Finance predicted that 118 million would be missing from the budget next year. If this ceiling were to be raised to EUR 4000, the Ministry predicted that 90 million would be missing. If the ceiling were lowered to EUR 3000, there would be a shortfall of 163 million. The Ministry of Finance has also made predictions for the next two years, but to read them out, good Peter, I don't think it makes any sense right now, it's easier for me to give you this page.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U124	Thank you. There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. The Commission's rapporteur is Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U125	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft Act 364 on supplementing the Social Tax Act was discussed by the Commission at its regular meeting on 11 January, apologizing, including on 21 February (11 January was the day the draft was put into procedure). As a representative of the initiator, Mr Andres Ammas, a colleague of the saalisk, appeared here. I shall sum up the debate very briefly. The initiator of the draft act stated that, if a so-called "social tax ceiling" was introduced, by which the initiators understood the non-taxation of four times the social tax on wages in excess of the median wage, the maximum amount of social tax would be EUR 3432 as of 2016. In the opinion of the initiators, this should make Estonia's tax environment more attractive, including for foreign investors, and bring more highly paid top specialists to Estonia. Another possible good thing is that the draft has a positive impact on the cessation of the so-called OÜ. It was also noted that this was not a novel idea. The Estonian Free Party Group is already launching the same draft for the third time. The rapporteur spoke about this in quite detail at the beginning of his speech, including the fact that this idea has been supported at various stages by the IRL, the Centre Party and also the Reform Party. The Service Economy Chamber was also spoken about by the waitress. After that, a representative of the Government of the Republic was given the floor. We found out in the Commission that s. At its meeting on 9 February 2004, the Government of the Republic decided not to support the draft. The Government of the Republic considered that the impact of the proposed form of tax relief on the creation of high-paid jobs was not clear. Rather, tax incentives affect the employment of low-wage earners. We are among the third in the ranking of national tax burdens where this burden is the lowest. When assessing the necessity of the measure, it was noted that it has been based on the OECD report, where it has been said about Estonia that labour taxes are high, although this is not actually the case. As I said earlier, we are among the one-third where there is a low tax burden. The measure, announced by the Government of the Republic, is not supported by the structure of Estonian companies. Most Estonian companies are small enterprises and it is doubtful that there would be a sufficient number of companies with the potential to recruit employees with significantly higher than average wage levels. Although it is clear in itself that no economic operator would refuse to have any tax reduced. The representative of the Government of the Republic specifically pointed out that the source of the cover was not acceptable. The alleged positive effect of the social tax ceiling is not convincingly argued, according to the Government of the Republic. The Government's opinion states that it is not clear what it is based on, arguing that in the medium term, the reduction in tax receipts will be offset by additional high-paid jobs. The absence of a specific source of coverage is not acceptable in the light of the state budget or the budgetary strategy of the state, and the introduction of an advantage would lead to a deterioration in the position of the treatment and pension system and would exacerbate the deficit. The Government of the Republic also drew attention to a few technical shortcomings. The linking of a tax charge to the median salary of the first three quarters of the calendar year does not actually reflect the average median wage. Payment of remuneration is seasonal. Anyone who looks at the data will know that wages will increase in the second and fourth quarters and decrease in the first and third quarters. As the upper limit covers mandatory elements of the tax law relationship, it should be established by law, not by regulation of the Government of the Republic. Now I am talking about the Commission's debate. The Commission acknowledged that the situation in the tax landscape has changed. At the same time, the example of Latvia was referred to again. In the case of Latvia, the impact of the tax ceiling is not clear; such an opinion sounded. The measure allegedly did not favour the creation of high-paid jobs in Latvia and the example of Latvia can be considered to have failed. After the introduction of the ceiling, the number of high-paid jobs decreased by 2%. Since the beginning of last year, Latvia has been subject to a so-called solidarity tax on high-wage earners, which is specifically linked to social security funds. In essence, it can be said that high-wage earners are taxed in the same way as before, simply the name of the tax has changed in part. On this point, the initiator replied that 20 countries were using this measure. It was further expressed that this is a socially pro-active measure and it is not clear how much it affects average labour cost statistics. It was argued that this had little impact. It was specifically my colleague, Jürgen Ligi, who said such a thing. Four procedural decisions were taken: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today by 7 March (this was a consensual decision), to appoint the chairman of the committee as rapporteur (also consensually), to propose that the draft be rejected (there were 5 members of the Commission, 1 against and 1 abstention) and, in the event that the draft was not rejected, the Commission decided to set a deadline of 10 working days, i.e. at 5.15 p.m. on 21 March 2017 (this was a consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U126	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Mr Mikhail! I think there is some sort of ideological confusion in this bill. On the one hand, we are talking about inequality, on the other hand, we are talking about increasing a handful of high-wage earners, and then we are talking again about equalising the tax burden. Is this some kind of pluralism or freedom of opinion, or does the Free Party have the freedom to interpret everything by all means? But you mentioned 20 countries in your report, where, I think, I understand, that kind of tax ceiling is being used. Can you name these countries? Then we can see if these are countries that we should take the example of.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U128	Thank you for your question. I'll start at the end and then I'll go to the beginning of the question. I did not mention these 20 countries, a representative of the initiators in the Commission. It is primarily six countries: Spain, Romania, Luxembourg, Malta, Cyprus and Latvia. They have indeed introduced such a social tax ceiling. However, as I have already said, and this was also discussed in the Commission, for example, in Latvia, this money is being withdrawn through some kind of solidarity tax. What is happening in Malta or Luxembourg, we have not examined that. Then there are ten other countries with different social contributions benefits. This means that there is no social tax ceiling such as that in the countries mentioned above. There are four other countries, Great Britain, Hungary, Ireland and Sweden, where the ceiling is set, but only for employee payments, not for employer payments. So basically we should talk about six countries, not 20. However, as far as solidarity is concerned, it is indeed an ideological issue, my dear colleague. In my opinion, solidarity means that the person to whom society has given more will also give more back. The fact that I am here in the Riigikogu, for example, has been the choice of society. I'm the last person to claim any tax benefits. After all, our large companies have formed in the last quarter of the century and like it or not, but what is now owned by them began 25 to 26 years ago and was once our common property. So all this came from society. It should be remembered and should fulfil its responsibilities to society. Therefore, yes, in our time, as Mr Ammas said, we acted as an opposition in the opposition. In opposition, we often supported opposition parties because we were in the same camp and we had the same goal: to bring more. We can't do that now, now we have to think about what we're doing. Every time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U129	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U130	Thank you, dear waitress. Social tax plays a very important role in pension accounting. The new model is also important for the years worked and for the size of social contributions. Consider, for example, a person who is dedicated. He chooses a specialty, educates himself and works for a long time, gets a high salary for it and hopes that social tax will be paid honestly and therefore receive a higher pension. Did the Commission discuss whether it would be compensated for this part in any way? That's part of the question. Part Two: Did the Commission mention the whole compensation mechanism when the social tax ceiling was introduced by the private sector or public authorities? Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U131	Thank you. The second part of the question is easy to answer. That's not what we were talking about. I understand that this is, however, a general mechanism. But to answer the first part of the question, Inara, I say that we are all in this hall, not all of us, of course, some are very young here, but most of us still remember the old days. I recall the sentence that in the name of freedom, we can also eat potato peel. We were in solidarity at the time, and we were in agreement with potato peels. Where's it gone now? Maybe it's the same thing at stake again. We have such a demographic situation and such problems in the economy that the best slogans ever sounded should be remembered and returned to them. I've heard the name, I don't even want to name it, because I have a disgusting, how one of the big companies reported that ah so, he's being driven in with this new income tax and organised such a pension system, so he's reducing his salary. If I said his name, I should also say how he earned his fortune, how he became a big entrepreneur, what words he spoke when he was elected to the Riigikogu, when he became a minister, or when he commanded the capital of Estonia, for example. I don't want to do this, I was disgusted to hear that story. We have a special responsibility. Those people who support tax restrictions, which currently amount to four median salaries, are misunderstood what one country and one nation is living in that territory. I'm not talking about nationality, I'm talking about people, something in common. So one thing is the economic side, the financial side and the compensation that is written in the explanatory memorandum. I don't think so. It's a matter of faith, as Andres Ammas said in his report. I don't believe that. On the other hand, there is a much higher thing; it is solidarity: we have to do and we have to do it. If nothing changes in the world, we will need more and more solidarity every year. Those who have gained more and who have more must set an example. One of my favourite writers, Zhvanetski, who you probably know, because one day Ervin Abel and Sulev Nõmmik read very much before the monologists from his works, has said that the wounded must be carried from the battlefield. If you leave them there to die, the others won't go into battle again. Here's a sign that no one wants to go into battle or save anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U132	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U133	Dear Chairman, Honourable waitress! So that this example of EUR 3 500 is not going to live its own life, so that the members of the Riigikogu now want to reduce their own taxes, I ask you whether you can assess the impact this bill could have on overall employment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U134	I see nothing to do with employment here, rather than negative. Since this was not discussed in the Commission, I can only say my personal opinion. The better our health care system works, the better it will affect employment. You certainly know how many invalids mean that there are people with labour losses in Estonia. The last number I heard is that there are 130,000 people on the circuit. In fact, they do not necessarily have physical traumas that could not have been avoided, but they have diseases that would simply have needed to be treated in time. However, this requires a high level of medicine and medicine is subject to social tax. This means that if we have a high level of employment, we will have more opportunities if we maintain and even increase the part that goes from social tax to health care. If we do not do so, or if we even reduce this proportion, then the very well-paid specialist, who may never come here, will in no way cover the loss of employment that will result from the continuous incomplete funding of the health care system.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U135	There are no further questions for the Commission rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U136	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The social tax ceiling is a stamp proposal, which can also be made by those who have no idea of the economy. It is very often proposed as the only big idea that should trigger the economy. I have always been critical of this measure because there has never been any analysis of how much it supports anyone, how much savings in labour costs can be achieved in different types of companies, how much savings in companies' costs will be, or how long-term this will have an effect. To put it harshly, I imagine it is a year in one labour-intensive enterprise, perhaps at least a few years' salary increase, but rather a year or a shorter time. In this sense, it is like a fire that does not really solve anything in the long term, but generates a huge cost for the state budget. And when you talk abstractly, without numbers, it's actually a very thin story. Of course, there are arguments in favour of this idea as well. One is that we are dealing with the tax burden on labour, which is causing a competition problem for our economy. Taxes on labour are, apart from corporate tax, the next most burdensome taxes on the economy and are paid to deal with them. The problem is, of course, that the same people who praise the introduction of a tax ceiling are highly ironic and sceptical about reducing the overall tax burden on the workforce. When the Reform Party chose not to support the introduction of the ceiling but to reduce the tax rate, it received fire and tar. The reduction in the social tax rate was ridiculed by making this reduction 1% in negotiations, which in fact means just as much savings for businesses. But on the other hand, it's being turned back, and everyone's happy. These same advocates of the social tax ceiling say that lowering the social tax rate is a completely wrong step. In this sense, it is a controversial argument. The problem with the social tax ceiling is, of course, that it is immensely expensive for the budget and it is very badly targeted. Although there is talk of a structural shift, it is not really the groups of employees or the types of companies that would get the money. This is an unsustainable measure. Countries with proportionate income tax cannot afford social tax ceilings for political reasons; it is simply pushed up in a step-by-step income tax situation at one point. This is precisely the case with our southern neighbours: there was no progressive income tax, solidarity was made more social. This only proves this argument; Latvia's example is indeed adequate. Today in this Chamber, it is as if the people whose party is a fiery supporter of progressive income tax have expressed their support for this idea. It doesn't make sense. Now pull yourself together and decide what you want! The reality is that the tax burden on Estonian labour is averaged in Europe, which means that it is relatively high, but... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U137	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U138	... low on competition, he's just high-paid. So we are talking about the part where competitiveness actually exists. In this sense, I am skeptical about this draft and my party is skeptical too. We still think that what we should be dealing with is tax rates, not tax exemptions. Now I'm talking about the positive side. Unlike usual, however, the Free Party put forward a number of arguments that will lose many of the question marks. He also made counter-arguments in addition to the arguments in favour, and the presentation was relatively thorough. But the most important thing I want to highlight is that the situation has changed. Those whose tax burden so far has been relatively low, and this has prevented support for this bill for political reasons, for reasons of fairness, solidarity and sustainability, are now figuratively losing their first pillar pension. According to government plans, the link between the social tax paid and the first pillar, i.e. the state pension, i.e. the guaranteed pension, disappears. This is a problem and it speaks in favour of supporting this bill. There wasn't one before. Another problem is the withdrawal of the tax-free minimum. After all, a very high tax-free minimum has been the initiative of these very authors. Now it's being taken away from those we call high-wagers, but who actually get a pretty average salary. It's really brutal to go after a wallet. Reducing the first pillar is a very brutal move towards social guarantees. Our group is totally not opposed to this draft. We recognise that the government has taken a major step towards the possibility of a social tax ceiling, by taking away the first pillar pension, as well as the tax-free minimum, from the very high-wage earners who are approved as drivers of the economy. So look at politics as a whole. Those who are in favour of graduated income tax should not doubt it at all, but others do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U139	On behalf of the Group of the Hard Social Democratic Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U140	Good Chairman! I'm not taking extra time, so I'll be ready in time. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party Group and the party as a whole have never, as I recall, supported the introduction of a social tax ceiling in this Chamber, in their programme or anywhere else. We have many or many reasons for this. Today, I'm focusing on two of them. If we split up social tax, we can see that one part of it is pension insurance. When we put on the pension insurance part of the ceiling, we have to consider that some people are going to receive fewer pensions than we want. The question is whether we want those people who are now earning more to receive less pensions in the future because of this ceiling. We don't want that. Of course, this ceiling would also mean that, as social tax money comes into the pension fund, the deficit would increase further over the years. It's a question of money. But of course, that's what we can do with the ceiling. The more important thing is the health insurance side. After all, we all buy ourselves health insurance, which costs 13%. Its price is not x euros, but 13%. If we set a ceiling on it, some people will have less than 13%, or they will lose some of what we are currently buying as health insurance for 13%, then they will be medical services, paid-for sick days or preferential medicines. After all, all of this extends to our children. I have three, more in some families. If we take down 13% of this ceiling, what is the part that these people can no longer get? In the opinion of the Social Democratic Party, this is a bad plan and our group will not support this draft here in this Chamber or, I hope, in the future, here in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U141	Mr Andres Ammas on behalf of the Free Party Group. Honourable Riigikogu, although working time is about to end, this procedure, which is currently under way, that is, the speech of the Free Party Group will be held to the end. Let's wait patiently. I don't think Andres can make a speech in one minute and two seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U142	Honourable President! Honourable colleagues in this Chamber! I'm afraid I'm a man of too much talk. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions and speeches. It really seems to me that today's debate was more argumentative and meaningful than it was the two previous times. It was not bad, either, that this debate was carried out here, in a sense, on a world-view basis. I think we can discuss these questions for the second time in this Chamber. I was very pleased that the honourable colleague Jürgen, while in opposition, found more than ever time to listen to, think about and deepen the arguments of the Free Party. I am sincerely pleased about that. I am pleased that the speech of the representative of the Reform Party was so relevant and argued. In my opinion, however, not all the speeches were such. Despite all my sympathy with the Socialist representative, I have to say that this reasoning, as if we were each here buying ourselves 13% health insurance, remained a little dim for me. After all, the amount that highly paid people contribute to our common health care and health insurance is considerable. The previous government coalition was absolutely unable to agree on the sustainable financing of Estonian health care today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, after five years, after ten years or after 20 years. I very much hope that the current coalition will suddenly be able to deal with this key issue in Estonia's life. But surely this solution should not mean that still more-more-more, still infinitely more. It'll only get us killed. There was talk of solidarity here today several times, and I would like to add a few points. Yes, solidarity is a very sympathetic principle, but let it apply to all drafts and ideas. Yesterday's Äripäev gave two examples of how one member of the company's management board was not granted paternity leave and how another member of the company's management board had to fight hard with the Social Insurance Board in order to receive a pre-retirement pension. Since he was a prominent entrepreneur, he finally succeeded. I'm sorry, but these inconsistencies show little solidarity with corporate board members. The Free Party has submitted several submissions to the proceedings concerning the issue of unemployment insurance for members of the management board of companies. You have to pay unemployment insurance, but if you get unemployed, you don't get any money. This bill has stood for months, now for years. So let us also show solidarity with these people and let us adopt this law. If there is solidarity, then more broadly. I want to wish us all a more positive and understanding approach to businesses and less distrust of them. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a proposal for all of you: let us continue to deal with this draft, to fine-tune and to correct it, let us not put it aside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-07_U143	The trial is adjourned. We'll proceed tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 1.03 p.m.
