ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will start the 9th working week Thursday session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Everyone now has the opportunity to hand over drafts or enquiries. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a draft to deliver, which consists of amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, § 222 several paragraphs and § 223 and 224. This amendment sets clear time limits for preliminary investigations, which are currently lacking in criminal proceedings. Eight MPs from five political parties have signed. For obvious reasons, there is no IRL signature here; the other five parties are represented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U3	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U4	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I am here for the third time with a bill to rehabilitate the League of Estonian War of Independence and the persons and organisations involved. They say three are the law. I hope that the Board of the Riigikogu will not reject this draft with the reasons sought for the third time and will still have it before respected members of the Riigikogu so that we can discuss it together and really pay tribute to the men who fought in the War of Independence and thanks to whom we have the Republic of Estonia at all, but who were repressed in political winds, intrigue and power struggles, persecuted and spread all sorts of ugly demagogical fiction. The fact that the rehabilitation of such a number of repressed people is within the competence of the Riigikogu shows that the Riigikogu has taken similar decisions in the past. This decision is very brief: 'The Riigikogu decides to rehabilitate all persons and associations who were convicted or repressed in connection with their participation in the activities of the Association of Estonian War of Independence and its associated associations, as well as in contributing to or supporting this activity. ' In the case of the 100th anniversary year of the Republic of Estonia, this is a crucial decision and this bill has been signed by 13 delegates from four political parties of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U5	There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft law and a draft decision. The Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. Now we can do a presence check. Requesting presence check! 75 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; 26 members of the Riigikogu are missing. Ladies and gentlemen, before we go to the agenda of the sitting, I have a very important announcement for you. Next week, we know we have a sitting-free week, but since we are celebrating the 100th anniversary of the national self-determination of Estonia in this Chamber on 28 November, among other things, in this Chamber, I have a huge request that you clear your desks and drawers, taking with you all the materials you have put there during the working week. [[There's a hustle in the hall.]] But you don't have to do it right now. Don't rush! We still need to go through today's agenda and then we can start cleaning the drawers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U6	The first item on today's agenda is the second reading of the draft law amending the Employment Services and Benefits Act, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. Maris Lauri, member of the Social Affairs Committee, is invited to the chair as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U7	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of the procedure in the Committee on Social Affairs between first and second readings. I would remind you that this draft was initiated by the Committee on Social Affairs on 7 June. The amended draft was first read on 26 October and closed. The deadline for amendments was 9 November. No amendments were received by 9 November. The Social Committee sent the amended draft opinion to the Chamber of Commerce, EVEA, the Confederation of Trade Unions, the Confederation of Employers, the Unemployment Fund and the TALO. The Unemployment Insurance Fund and the TALO supported the draft; the Chamber of Commerce also sent its opinion. The draft was discussed three times in the Commission: on 7, 14 and 21 November. In the last sitting, the documents at second reading were approved, and I will not pay any more attention to that. Representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the unemployment fund and the Chamber of Commerce were invited to the meeting on 7 November. The Chamber of Commerce explained its letter. He supported an amendment allowing a member of the management board to register as unemployed and receive unemployment insurance benefits if he or she is not paid as a member of the management board for the performance of his or her duties. However, the Chamber proposed to restore the regulation imposed in 2014 or to alleviate the conditions for registration as unemployed, i.e. to exclude the condition that a person has been forced out of the last job. There followed a discussion on how the unemployment allowance is registered, the conditions for receiving unemployment benefit and the differences depending on whether it is a board member, a self-employed person or a hired person. The issue of the possibility for people who do not receive unemployment benefit, to receive employment services from the unemployment fund and whether or not they should be unemployed was also addressed. The right to employment market services is not limited to the unemployed. Jobseekers also receive help to find a job, albeit on a smaller scale. Jobseekers have the right to services such as job mediation, job search counselling and career counselling. The employment programme provides for measures to prevent unemployment in the coming years and can also be obtained by a person in active employment. This means that a member of the company's management board may also turn to the unemployment fund for the help needed to find a new job before the employee's work is completed. In all this discussion, it is important to stress that the decision of the Supreme Court was primarily about unemployment insurance benefits, not whether a member of the board of directors can register as unemployed and can access labour market services. Representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs were invited to the meeting on 14 November and some specific questions were put, including on the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. It was decided to stick to the proposed draft. One linguistic amendment was made and procedural decisions were taken, all of which received consensus support. These decisions were as follows: to place the draft on the plenary agenda by 23 November, to propose the termination of the second reading, to send the draft to third reading when the second one is closed, by 6 December and to propose the final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U8	Thank you, dear waitress. Colleagues don't have any questions for you. As we have heard, the proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 479. There are no amendments to this draft, but before we can finally approve the commission's proposal, you will all be able to speak on this draft. There is no such wish and therefore the second reading of the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, which was initiated by the Social Committee, has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U9	The second item on today's agenda is the second reading of the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and repealing the State Death Allowance Act and related amendments to other laws. Marika Tuus-Lauli, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the first reading of the draft was on 11 October, almost a month and a half ago, a little reminder. This draft will make the income support system more flexible and raise the level of subsistence. The needs-based support shall be repealed. As an important change, the EUR 250 funeral allowance will be restored by channelling the corresponding funds to local authorities. And there was the regulation of specialists involved in the sale and rental of aids. One amendment was tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party by the deadline for submitting amendments. In preparation for the second reading, the Commission met four times. On 7 November, a debate was held with stakeholders on the draft. The representative of the Estonian Association of Cities admitted that this was a well-considered and balanced draft. The representative pointed out that the public may have an understanding that this is a restoration of universal funeral support, although in practice in the future each local authority will establish a procedure for receiving the allowance itself. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs recalled once again that it was already mentioned at first reading that it was linked to the activities of local government. The municipality will receive EUR 250 per death through the Support Fund and the terms of the grant will be decided by the local authority. The representatives of the Estonian Association of Pharmacies and Tamro Eesti OÜ presented their position on the amendment of the Ministry of Social Affairs regarding the regulation of specialists involved in the sale and rental of aid. In particular, the Ministry of Social Affairs has developed a proposal to clarify the requirement for a professional certificate of professional assistance and to consider the postponement of the deadline for submitting the claim, 1 January 2018. The current system and regulation of aids has been developed in 2014-2015. In the meantime, the aid market, namely the situation of service providers, has changed a lot: the number of service providers has multiplied and the number of points of sale has risen from 100 to over 450. There are also many new bidders with a different background from previous bidders, such as pharmacies. This has led to a significantly higher than planned need for professionals holding a certificate of competency. The representative of the NGO Estonian Pharmacies Association pointed out that the wording proposed by the Ministry did not reveal which specialists could be equivalent to the professional skills of the aid specialist and what specific requirements could be imposed on specialists on the basis of the mandate given to him by the Minister responsible for the field. At its meeting on 9 November, the Commission discussed the amendments. In connection with the amendment proposed by the Estonian Reform Party's Group, the Commission decided not to repeal the need-based regulation of family support to ask the Minister for Social Protection for further answers on a number of issues. What, for example, is the overall picture of the changes in the system of subsistence and of the other financial measures taken into account, which will enable the need-based regulation of family support to be repealed, etc.? At the meeting on 16 November, a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Deputy Chancellor Rait Kuuse, gave a great deal of clarification. At its meeting on 21 November, the Commission approved the text of the draft second reading, the explanatory memorandum and the list of amendments. A few words on the amendments. Amendment 1, in other words, the amendment proposed by the Committee on Social Protection, requires that, for the sale or hire of aids at each point of sale, there must be either a person qualified as an aid specialist or a specialist designated in the regulation of the Minister for Social Protection, who has the right to sell or rent specific aids because he has the appropriate qualifications and the necessary preparation. The Commission specified the terms of reference: the Minister establishes, by means of an instrument, a list of the specialists whose qualifications and qualifications enable them to sell certain aids. For example, if an auditor is employed in an optometrist or auditory aid company only in a visual aid company, they are also sufficiently prepared to sell and rent such equipment. This would be unreasonably burdensome for an undertaking if, in addition to them, it were to employ a person with a specialist resource specialist. Amendment 3, which is proposed by the Reform Party Group, is to exclude the need-based regulation of family support from the draft repeal. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained that other support measures offered by the State were taken into account when repealing the need-based family allowance regulation. In the context of the draft, rising child benefits, additional support from a family rich in children, an increasing general level of subsistence, a child's consumption-related income support calculation and an increasing minimum wage are of major importance. The money will be added to the restructuring of income tax accounting and the preservation of income tax exemption from the second child, as well as to the maintenance support system and new labour market measures. In order to minimise the number of families affected by the change, it is planned to increase the subsistence limit to 140 euros per month and raise the limit to 168 euros per month when calculating children's consumption weights. Families who do not qualify for income support when these changes enter into force should be assisted by the local government. There is a relatively small number of them per municipality, about six families. The need-based family allowance payments will also be made in the first three months of next year. The Committee on Social Affairs decided not to accept the amendment of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Amendment 5 of the Social Committee postpones the requirement to have a qualified specialist at the point of sale for the sale or hire of a tool until 1 January 2020. The Committee on Social Affairs decided to submit the draft to the second reading of the Chamber by 23 November, today, to propose that the second reading of the draft be terminated and, when the second reading of the draft is completed, to send the draft to the third reading by 6 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U11	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U12	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! With this bill, 480 families lose. How do you feel about this number worth the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U13	Thank you. I just read all the benefits that help people cope better. In addition, the subsistence system will be changed. We will also continue to have child benefits, as we know. Support for the first and second children will rise to 55 euros next year and 60 euros next year. A child allowance of EUR 100 per month shall be paid for the third child and for each subsequent child. The support of a family rich in children has just been added. The overall income limit is rising from 130 to 140, with a significantly higher consumption weight for children being very important here. In addition, the current government has decided to switch to an "active" system. The income support system has been significantly modified. This is very important because the new system supports work. If a person has been unemployed and received income support but finds a job, he or she will receive income support for the first two months and 50% of income support for the next four months, in addition to his or her salary. It supports the exit from poverty and we believe that such an active system is very correct. And, for example, the income of working school-age children is not included in the income of the family in the calculation of income support. So I think these are very important decisions and we could support this system.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U14	Liina Kersna has another question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U15	Thank you. I would point out that I have understood from the analysis of the Ministry of Social Affairs that 480 families will lose even after the implementation of the supporting measures that you have all counted. So despite everything you have talked about, we have 480 families in Estonia who lose because there is no need for child support. Do you think that a needs-based approach to social policy is important or is it not important?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U16	Thank you. I dare say that your amendment was discussed very, very thoroughly in the Committee on Social Affairs. In fact, an additional session was held and the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry was invited to provide answers. He explained it very well, and it's all in the record. He said very nicely that we have local authorities who are now gaining independence, who are growing and becoming more powerful. If there are no more than five families per municipality, they are certainly very prone to help these people if they really need to. But if we look at the previous, or need-based, support system, we will see that in 2013, when it was created, it was thought that this system would be very effective, that some 46000 families would receive this support. However, when we look at how this has come into force, 6,000 families received support last year. Moreover, they will receive this support for a maximum period of three months. So it hasn't been effective. After all, you have supported in the past that we should give a line, not a fish, but our new active system will do exactly that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U17	Good waitress, there are no more questions for you. Thank you. Now the Chair is open for negotiation. Maris Lauri has first expressed his wish for negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U18	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Like yesterday, I'm coming back here again to make adjustments to what's being presented to us here. Yes, there are very good things in this bill. Like the things that motivate people to go to work. It is also a very good thing that municipalities are given more decision-making opportunities and more rights. It's all good. But are 480 families who, despite any changes, get between wheels whose well-being is deteriorating little or much? The coalition says there are few. They are not worth dealing with, they could be dealt with by the local government. I'm sorry, but yesterday I was on the remote and I was talking about the support of triplets and more multiples. They are born two or three times a year, but they had to be regulated at the national level, not at the local government level, which, in my opinion, would make sense to one or two families a year throughout Estonia. Now we are talking about 480 families all over Estonia and it is said that let the municipality deal with it. Coalition, you're very hypocritical about this. Be consistent in your affairs! If the municipality decides, let it decide. I'd like the municipality to decide, too. Then why do you want the state to decide all things in certain places? Be consistent! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U19	There are no more requests for negotiation. Next, we need to examine the amendments to the draft, and now we will. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Commission itself. The third amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U20	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U21	Clearly, then we must begin the procedure for voting on the amendment. Mr. Korb, do you have a procedural question? Let's wait for the call and then...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U22	Before voting, I want to take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U23	All right, I'll cut the call. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U24	Honourable Riigikogu! Let me remind you that we are discussing the amendment of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the repeal of the State Death Allowance Act and the related amendment of other laws in draft 490. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and I will now put it to the vote. I would like to remind you that the lead committee has proposed not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 35 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 41 members of the Riigikogu opposed. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the commission has taken full account of it. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the commission has taken full account of it. We have examined the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 490 be terminated. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U25	The third item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Tourism Act, the Law of Obligations Act and the Consumer Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Vice-Chairman of the Economic Commission, Toomas Kivimägi, will give us a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U26	Mr President of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is also just a reminder that with this draft we are taking over the European Union package travel and related travel arrangements directive. The main content of this directive is to provide guarantees for travel operators and only in the event of insolvency. So that's the essence of this bill. Between two readings, the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this at two meetings: 16 November and 20 November. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu or from political groups within the deadline for amendments. However, a number of proposals were received from the Estonian Tourist Association and these proposals were discussed at the meeting of the working group on 26 October. I would like to begin immediately by congratulating the Estonian Tourist Association for the expertise, depth and cooperation they have shown in the process of handling this draft. At this point, I am pleased to note that officials have been able to respond exactly the same. I want to name these two people too. In particular, Kristiina Koll, Chief Specialist of the Trade and Services Department of the Internal Market Department of MKM, and Adviser to the Private Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, also showed great expertise and depth. I would also use the word 'empathy' in their case. This is not very often the case that officials are prepared to take into account to this extent the constructive proposals made by market participants because they do not want to admit that someone has made a mistake. Of course, I would also like to thank Mr Daniel, who is sitting back there and who, in the Commission, very constructively supported the procedure for this draft. As a result of this work, the group finalised eight or nine amendments to the Commission. Finally, the amendments received a total of 11 amendments, which I can already preconceived to say in consensual terms by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Since there was indeed a consensus on these amendments, I am not going to spend your time introducing these proposals in greater depth. All the more so since most of them were rather technical and editorial changes, but thanks to them, there are certainly no many possible interpretations in many ways. Indeed, legal clarity is very important in the case of laws, and this debate certainly contributed very much to legal clarity. Another instructive story, if you'll excuse me. In any case, there could be one such instructive story. I also addressed my teacher's professor, Mr Paul Varul. We in the Commission have had a debate on the special rule and general rule during the procedure for this draft: is there a general rule in this case, if there is a special rule? Indeed, the Commission had a wide range of opinions on this subject. I approached Mr Paul Varul and his interpretation was very clear and unambiguous for me: if the general rule is contrary to the general rule, the general rule does not apply. A simple example is given that if the general rule is that all transactions are oral, but for a single transaction, a special rule says that the transaction must be written, only the special rule applies and the general rule does not apply. In all other cases both apply, but of course the special rule is applied first and then the general rule. So that's the kind of interesting legal discussion we had. I hope Professor Gräzin also agrees with this explanation. That was my wording, to which Mr Paul Varul contributed greatly. I will talk in more detail about three points where the Commission's amendment did not come, although the Estonian Tourist Association submitted its proposals. The first amendment by the Association of Tourism Companies, which did not receive the Commission's support, was the proposal to grant the tour operator the right to reduce the security to the extent of the cost of the scheduled tickets issued. The second related proposal was to reduce the minimum guarantee rate to 3% of the total annual package sales planned by the travel operator and to at least EUR 15000. This option has also been accepted by the European Commission. The package tours are known to be organised in very different ways, but clearly distinguishable are chartered packages, such as Tez Tour and Novatours. There is a whole package together: air tickets and accommodation, probably some more services. However, it is also possible to organise package travel within the meaning of this directive on scheduled flights. And the proposal of the travel operators, in particular the tourist agencies, was that, if the package was arranged on a scheduled flight, the guarantee could be reduced by the cost of this route. What's the difference? The difference is that, if a scheduled ticket is purchased, the route flight is guaranteed, i.e. the ticket is valid even if the traveler who has sold you this ticket or who has had the right to sell it has become insolvent in the meantime. Perhaps the other party does not apply if the travel agent has sold accommodation at the hotel to this airline ticket. If, in the meantime, this travel agent has gone bankrupt, then, of course, in the case of a hotel, the question arises of a guarantee that does not automatically materialise. The reason why the Union considered this change to be important is to still obtain IATA accreditation, i.e. the right to issue air tickets. To this end, there are certain guarantees which must be provided by the travel agent to this same IATA. In some ways, we are asking for a guarantee with this bill. In fact, IATA will guarantee a flight ticket even if I do not want to name one, in this case travel company A will go bankrupt. This ticket is still valid because it has been prescribed for you and the money has already been paid to the airline. So in this case, the flight ticket is valid in any case. It is all logical and understandable from the perspective of the Association of Tourism Companies. However, the representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications opposed this amendment and mentioned various arguments. One thing is that these guarantee rates are talkin' about minimum guarantee rates, we have relatively low levels compared to many other countries. The second, for which the MKM representative did not make an absolute statement at the Commission's meeting, but which was the most important argument why the Commission did not support this proposal, was that the amendment might run counter to the Package Travel Directive, which I referred to earlier. One important point here is that, in the case of package travel, the guarantee must be guaranteed until the end of the journey. There is another concept, i.e. related travel arrangements. In such a case, the security need not be secured until the end of the journey. In the case of linked travel arrangements, for example, a travel agent who has sold you a trip, which may be part of a flight ticket or accommodation at a hotel, and who has already transferred money to their travel service provider, does not need to have a guarantee in this respect. However, in the case of package travel, the guarantee must remain until that moment, until you so-called step off the plane at Tallinn Airport to that point, there must actually be a guarantee. This is why the Commission did not consider it possible to support this proposal by the Estonian Tourist Association. The fact that the guarantee must be at the end of the journey is a very general and clear principle for package travel. In the second case, concerning the reduction of the minimum guarantee rate, the Commission met the Estonian Tourist Association. In the case of a passenger undertaking selling scheduled package travel, the Commission agreed to reduce the minimum rate from 7% to 3% of the planned annual volume of packages. In the case of CHARTER packets, the minimum guarantee rate is 7%, but if the package tours are organised with the help of scheduled flights, this rate is 3% of the planned annual sales volume of the package tours. Now, to be precise, in reality this amendment does not have a very large content, but the Commission approved it for a reason which I have repeatedly stressed is the minimum guarantee rate. In fact, these guarantees are significantly higher than 3%. Advances two months in advance mean that the level of collateral is still 15 to 20% of the annual volume of sales. This money is in advance for the travel companies in the case of package travel, i.e. the minimum rate generally does not apply. All the more so as it relates to companies holding an IATA certificate. However, this amendment was accepted by the Commission. However, the Commission did not agree to reduce the numerical minimum security rate of EUR 32000. The Association of Tourists proposed EUR 15000, but here MKM once again indicated that we still have a rather low rate compared to other countries. An example was Lithuania, with a minimum guarantee rate of EUR 50000. The second reason was that EUR 15000 may not, however, be sufficient to cover the costs and, if the guarantee is not sufficient, this obligation could fall on the State. Consequently, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications did not support this proposal. The second amendment, which was not supported by the Commission, is a matter of principle concerning the determination of the volume of the guarantee. The current regime provides that travel operators shall submit a report showing how much advance payments they have for package travel and related travel arrangements. In addition, at the initiative of the Consumer Protection Board, the volume of packages and related travel arrangements planned for the following quarter is also sought from each travel company. On the basis of these two reports, the Consumer Protection Board will assess whether the guarantees are sufficient. In the case of package travel, the principle is above all that all advances must be covered by a guarantee. And in order to be able to assess future voyages sold in advance, the Consumer Protection Board has indeed requested travelers to also submit their planned package travel and related travel arrangements for the next quarter. However, travel operators say that it is technically very difficult to do this; it is essentially a handicraft. They also say it's looking at these numbers from the ceiling and writing them down. Their proposal was that they provide an estimate of the volume of packages and associated travel arrangements to be planned each year for the whole year. And they are ready to specify this forecast for each quarter, considering both the previous quarter, for which we know what really happened and the side that is planned until the end of the year. However, here too, the representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications maintained his position, still considering it to be very important information for the Consumer Protection Board, namely the volume of packages planned next quarter and related travel arrangements. So this provision, i.e. the Committee on Economic Affairs, has not tabled this amendment. The content of the third proposal is also quite difficult to understand. Namely, from where does the linked travel arrangement become a package trip? What is important here is that the guarantees for the package are significantly higher than for the linked travel arrangement service. I will, for example, bring up one of these coarse differences. If I go to a tourist office and buy a plane ticket that I pay for separately, and I have the idea that I will also take a hotel that I pay for separately, it is linked to a travel arrangement service. However, the Association of Tourists gave an example that if I get two bills with me, I don't have enough money or I don't have that much limit on a credit card and I pay these two bills with a one-sum transfer, then it is possible to interpret that the related travel arrangement service has become a package trip. This is in some respects incomprehensible: as if, because of whether I pay two invoices separately or as a single sum, the content of the service and the amount of guarantees associated with it will also change significantly. It's kind of weird to figure that out, but I see Urmas scratching his face, but that's the way it is. If I pay two invoices separately, it is linked to a travel arrangement service, for which there are, of course, guarantee requirements. But these warranties will disappear once I've paid the tour operator money, then I, as a tourist agency, no longer have that obligation. However, in the case of the package, as I said earlier, I must guarantee the end of the journey until this passenger is back here. This is the 4% to 5% that tourism agencies have to pay to insurance companies, for example, on the amount of the guarantee. It was clear from this story that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications did not dispute this in essence, which has also been found in the explanatory memorandum. It states that even if a person pays two bills together at home, but has been given a clear understanding that the two services have been sold separately to him, the related travel arrangement service will still not become a package trip. Let us say that this proposal was essentially supported, but the Commission's amendment was not made again. This was again because it was feared that it might conflict with the wording of the relevant directive of the European Union. And now I finally come to procedural decisions. The following procedural decisions were taken on 16 November. Firstly, to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 23 November 2017 (consensus). Secondly, to propose the termination of the second reading (as well as the consensus). Thirdly, to send the draft to third reading when the second one is closed, by 6 December 2017 (as well as consensus), and fourthly, to propose a final vote on the draft (as well as consensus). And fifthly, continue the debate in the Commission on 20 November (there was also a consensus here). On 20 November, this amendment was accepted, which received the number one in the list of proposals, as the corresponding point of the draft section is above the others, which reduces the minimum level of collateral from 7% to 3% if the package flights are operated on line flights. There was also a consensus on this amendment, which was accepted on 20 November. So the debate was long and thorough. The subject is quite complex, but I think that in the end most of it understood. I would ask for your support for this draft and once again: we had a consensus on all the amendments (11 in total). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U27	Thank you, good waitress. Andres Metsoyal, from the summer capital, has a question for you about the package tours.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U28	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The introduction to the bill states that all package travel lasting more than 24 hours is subject to this new regulation. My question concerns one of our major areas, or spa companies. Are spa companies subject to this directive and these legal provisions? They also sell package trips. Will they be subject to any additional security obligation? In addition to accommodation, there are beauty and massage services and spa usage. Was this also mentioned in the Commission, or is this area not really going under this issue of guarantees?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U29	Thank you. There was no mention of this issue in the Commission. However, the general principle is that the same directive on package travel and related travel arrangements in the European Union does indeed refer to a travel operator, and here we should now look exactly at this wording. Spas as such I did not see on this list, but this directive does indeed concern travel agents. They're tour operators, they're tourist companies. I don't even dare give a final answer here if I don't know, guess. Once again, this directive concerns travel businesses selling package travel and related travel arrangements. It seems to me that it is more outward-looking, but it needs to be specified. I am convinced that this issue is covered on the substance of the draft, but I am not going to speculate here now whether or not spa companies are going under this directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U30	The next question comes from Urve Tiidus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have very interestingly explained this payment technique, when it comes to travel arrangements and when it comes to package travel. Would you, however, come back to this issue again, now from the point of view of the client? Is there any advice on how to be more useful, i.e. how to get a greater guarantee for a longer journey?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U32	Thank you. Indeed, there are quite considerable differences in guarantees. One is how long the guarantee has to be valid. Once again: in the case of a package, this guarantee must remain valid until this moment, until my journey is over, and I am, say, back in Tallinn. If the tour operator sells you a related travel arrangement service, it may contain both a hotel and a flight, but in this case the travel company will only be responsible until it has the money. If he has transferred this money to the airline and you have been given a flight ticket for it, and if he has passed it on to the hotel company, then he will no longer have a guarantee against you as a passenger. But in the case of a package tour, the guarantee is still valid until the end of the trip. The draft also states that the tour operator must actually inform passengers whether it is a package or a linked travel arrangement service. There are some extreme cases, such as plane crashes. But let me be clear that there is a clear guarantee in the case of package travel, but in the case of linked travel arrangements, the travel agent who sells this package does not offer you a guarantee. Of course, the airlines are responsible, of course. That doesn't mean no one's responsible. But this is about the responsibility of the travel agent, which is not involved in travel arrangements. What really matters here is that the travel agency that sells this service must inform you whether it is a package or a linked travel arrangement service. The client has the right, of course, to assume and say that I want this service as a package tour, and no one can prohibit it. He is not going to Tez Tour, he is going to a 'normal travel agency' and he can, of course, express his wish there. And then it depends on the travel company whether or not it is willing to do so. As a matter of fact, I commended Andres before Marin, and he shook his head to it, that the question you raised was not the subject of this draft, which is not the subject of the Package Travel Directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U33	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question is motivated by the previous question. Actually, I'm interested in how the client is protected. At the same time, I understand that excessive restrictions can also make travel more expensive, i.e. when the legislative party imposes unreasonable guarantee obligations on the undertaking. From this general story today, you can read that you recommend packages to people. Or do you also have an analysis showing that this price difference can be compensated by personal insurance or a guarantee?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U35	Thank you. You indicated very professionally that, of course, this balance must be found. If you go to one extreme and put all the responsibility on the travel agency, it will clearly be reflected sooner or later in a price that will become much more expensive. And another very important point, which was actually emphasised by the representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in the Commission, is the assumption that the passenger's own liability is zero , it would also be misleading. I repeat once again that, of course, the guarantee for the package is more secure. In that case, you are very likely to get the money back, because, as I said, the travel agent must have a guarantee for the entire amount of the advance. Perhaps if he goes bankrupt, the passengers will be able to recover all the advances that have been made. In the case of linked travel arrangements, I gave the same example, which Jaanus Marrand asked about in the Commission. As I said above: if it concerns travel arrangements, if the travel agency that sold it to you goes bankrupt, the flight ticket will still be valid. Jaanus Marrandi gave the example that okay, the plane ticket is valid, but I don't have a hotel because the travel company went bankrupt, and I don't have any money to pay for the hotel again. Indeed, there is a case like this that, figuratively speaking, was paid a second time and later tried to get that money back. Such examples certainly exist. I think there are similar types of insurance in this case, but generally we still secure baggage and our health if we take the classic travel insurance we are used to. But this bill still guarantees passengers in the event of the airline's insolvency. Maybe you can get back all the money you paid for the package trip, there's a hotel, a plane ticket or whatever.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U36	Next, Igor Gräzin asks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U37	Good waitress! I admit that maybe there is no real answer to that question. In particular, there is one catch for linked journeys and packages. The package trip seems to be more clever for the consumer because it covers insurance, i.e. driving, accommodation, all these things. However, in the case of a journey, the advantage is that there is a separate part of the flight and that air insurance falls under a separate international Warsaw Convention. In other words, at first glance, I think that it seems more stable and secure to have a certain kind of air insurance than to compare some sort of traveling thing to sell one, two or three, which is such a messy thing. Can we say that the level, rate, price, etc. of package travel security is more stable than or not for a related trip? There's no air insurance here. I'm just talking about plane crash cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U38	Thank you for that question. Now, if you're gonna catch up with me in the event of a plane crash, I really didn't want to stress that very much in my report. But MKM said very clearly that if there is a package trip, then all costs are guaranteed. All things related to health are also guaranteed. However, when it comes to travel arrangements, the travel company that sold the service to you is practically not responsible for anything. I repeat: this does not mean that no one is responsible. Of course, the airline or insurance company with whom you have a life insurance contract or whatever must be responsible. There's obviously a difference. But, yeah, let's say these are different things. In fact, the content of the draft is still aimed at the additional protection of the consumer, which will be extended to some extent. The same linked travel arrangement has been introduced as a new concept and, in the past, there was no such guarantee obligation in relation to the travel arrangement. And you had a very good point about the same scheduled flights. The reason I referred to and why the Association of Tourists wanted to exclude the costs of scheduled air tickets from the guarantee is indeed that they are already guaranteed. We have 20 travel agencies of the order of magnitude who have the right to issue flight tickets. They have signed corresponding agreements with IATA, they have certain obligations and certain guarantees over IATA. So it's actually a double guarantee and I'll say it straight, an extra burden for the company. However, once again, for the same reason that the directive talks about the need for a package to be guaranteed until the end of the journey, MKM still did not accept the proposal. Other examples were provided. I never like to point out individual cases, but there are isolated examples where the airline has not gone bankrupt, but for some reason IATA's airline tickets have not been valid in the event of the airline's insolvency. But individual cases always find, these crooks are still more...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U39	Next thing I know, Valdo Randpere's gonna ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U40	Thank you, good waitress. President-in-Office of the Council. Here's the question. You're talking about double liability, but can this bill lead to double benefit? Some credit cards automatically give me travel insurance, even if I don't pay for the trip with a credit card, the airline can offer me something and offer me the bill you're introducing. Does this in itself mean that I can get compensation from several sources if things go wrong? Or does this mean that these others, such as credit card issuers, should begin to change their terms at the moment this bill becomes a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U41	Thank you. The single principle is that the insurance is valid for a one-off period. I've studied it myself once when I lost my suitcase and I had several insurances from different insurers. In fact, the principle of one-off compensation applies. So there's no chance that if you have contracts with two insurance companies, you'll get double compensation. I assume that the principle of one-off compensation generally applies. Perhaps there is some additional compensation for some private insurers, but it must then be separately and clearly prescribed. So there is still the principle of one-off compensation. I apologise for my inappropriate remark in my previous reply. Of course, I did not mean the members of the Riigikogu; this line was inappropriate. I apologize for that!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U42	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I had a question when I listened to this debate. Is it also known that when we talk about the package and the insurance guarantee for the "prepayments" of companies there, what is the structure of this part of the insurance? In fact, you could say that plane tickets could be taken out if the part of air insurance in this structure was reduced to a minimum. I'm referring here to the possibility of meaningless over-insurance if there's only one payout principle. This means, in fact, that if, for insurance, for example, I Utrein, EUR 100, this part of the air tickets could lead to zero, which in the broader sense means that it is no longer overpaid. Has this been discussed, or is it known what this structure is like? Or is it too pointless and technical?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U44	Thank you. As regards the part of the air tickets, tourism operators have clearly stated that if the package is scheduled, the cost of the air tickets is clearly exemplified. Yes, MKM slightly predicted that sometimes when scheduled packages are sold, the bill does not distinguish what is the cost of a scheduled flight and what is the cost of a hotel or other services. In this respect, they also had one compromise proposal: to base the routes sold on a coefficient of 0,8 instead of 100%. In any case, tourism companies are ready for this kind of reporting, which does not require them to handicraft. They've got that kind of special treatment. Once again, it is clearly a double obligation for travel agencies to pay for scheduled air tickets. But it is a double obligation when it comes to package travel. As I said above, in the case of travel arrangements, if the travel agency has paid the airline money for the airline's air tickets, this will be done within 24 hours, it will no longer be obliged to guarantee the cost of this ticket.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U45	Next thing you know, Tiina Kangro's gonna ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U46	Thank you. I'm asking for a little more answer to the question before us about the fact that a person receives a one-off insurance benefit. That's clear. But if it's not even the subject of this legislative amendment, maybe you can explain one thing. If a person starts to turn to all potential insurers, could he eventually be deprived of his compensation because different insurers are unable to share, who will then compensate for his losses?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U47	Thank you. I don't think that's gonna be a problem. If I have an insurance contract in my pocket, I have the right to go to anyone. As a rule, I go to someone with better conditions. And the insurance company doesn't have the right to refuse because I've secured the same thing in another insurance company. Here's an interesting analogy that doesn't have anything to do with this subject. I just remembered that in motor insurance, for example, there is also such a very liberal principle that I can actually turn to my insurer if I am not responsible for the accident. I can choose here if the person who is responsible for the accident must also have compulsory motor insurance in company X, but in company A, I can jointly contact the insurance company responsible for the accident, but I also have the right to appeal to my insurer. So they'll sort it out later. This is a slightly different example, but it still shows this freedom. Certainly, the insurer does not have the right to refuse to deal with me or to settle my case on the grounds that I still have an insurance contract somewhere else. The same exclusion of double payment gives this opportunity. The customer still has the right to choose which insurer he or she will turn to if he or she has several insurances in respect of the same thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U48	Dear waitress, my colleagues have no further questions. However, it is now possible for everyone to come to the chair and, during the negotiations, to say what they think about this draft. I don't see words. We need to examine the amendments to this draft. As the rapporteur said, amendments 11 have been tabled. The first amendment was tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and was fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the commission took full account of it. The third also from the Committee on Economic Affairs, taken fully into account. The 4th Economic Commission, fully accounted for. The Fifth Economic Commission, fully accounted for. The sixth Economic Commission, fully accounted for. The seventh amendment from the Committee on Economic Affairs, fully taken into account. The eighth amendment from the Committee on Economic Affairs, taken fully into account. Nine from the Economic Commission, fully accounted for. The 10th Economic Commission, fully accounted for. The 11th proposal has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, taking full account. We have examined the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 492 be discontinued. Second reading complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U49	Our last item today is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Competition initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please waitress Tarmo Kruusimäe, member of the Economic Commission!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U50	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The text of the second reading of the draft competition law is now before you. To remind those who may not know that the draft concerns the indicative European Commission's transparency module, the publication of State aid exceeding EUR 500000. This requirement applies to us from 1 July last year; Estonia has already actually met it. As a general rule, such amendments refer to the transposition of technical directives. A month ago, on October 24, we had a first reading of the bill here. No amendments were tabled by any political group or committee. A single one came from the Ministry of Finance and we will also present it to you as an amendment to the Committee on Economic Affairs. This is exactly the case, I am trying to be correct: the amendment clarifies, in the case of State aid covered by a block exemption, the time-limit according to which the beneficiary must be informed of the principles covered by the block exemption before a decision is taken. Under the current law, the time definition of information is not precisely regulated and it is recommended that it be clarified in the interests of legal clarity. Of course, the proposal found consensus in the Commission. And some procedural steps: to send the draft to a second reading by 23 November, including today (consensus decision: Sven Sester, Toomas Kivimägi, Deniss Borodich, Erki Savisaar, Märt Sults and Tarmo Kruusimäe), to propose that the second reading be terminated (all in favour), to send the draft to a third reading if the second reading is completed by 6 December, which is not a week without sitting. And last procedural action: propose a final vote on the draft (including a consensual decision). So, good ambassadors, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U51	Good waitress, colleagues have no questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U52	Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-23_U53	Now we can open negotiations. Does anyone want to say anything about this bill? No, it's not. Then let us also examine the amendment that has been received on this draft. One amendment tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs. This was fully taken into account by the Commission. As the lead committee has proposed that the second reading of the draft be stopped, the second reading of the draft 508 is also closed. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined today's agenda. I remind you once again to check your desk drawers and what you have on your desks. If possible, come to this hall next week, on 28 November, and thereafter to the reception of the President of the Riigikogu in order to recall events a hundred years ago. Thank you. Have a nice day and a good day at the committees! Closure of the sitting at 11.20 a.m.
