ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 14th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm overreacting. On 3 May, the Government of the Republic of Estonia travelled to Belgium to do its business. But the sovereign reserve of power of the sovereign Republic of Estonia and its withdrawal from the sovereign territory of Estonia turned the government of the Republic of Estonia into a refugee government, or government, at that time, because the sovereign power, according to the Sovereignty Declaration, is realised only in the sovereign territory of the Republic of Estonia, not in Belgium. This moment was also emphasised by Juncker, addressing the Government of the Republic of Estonia as a refugee government with the words 'Jüri and his government'. However, since the government of the Republic of Estonia will be back under our country and our people for a while, we will use this brief moment and ask for the following. To which one of you or from abroad was the idea of taking a step just a few centimeters away from treason? What were you doing there, which could not have been done under the eyes of the Estonian people and the parliament, on our territory? Are there any parts of the travel materials that are again entrusted to the Secretary of State as secrets in his iron closet? And more. The government of the Republic, like a drunken manor of Catherine's time, commanding itself over a carriage is aesthetically lame, but given that Nordica is a state's own institution, it is also a misuse of power. This idea was alluded to by MKM as a high-ranking official who, by the way, also deals with Rail Baltic. So, George and your government, is it a shame? I'm sorry! Yes, right, signatures: Helme, Laanet, Kert, Borodich, Milling, Põlluaas and Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U3	If, for any reason, this inquiry complies with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, I will forward it. Incoming check, please! 90 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session. Before we go to the adoption of the agenda, I have an obligation to inform you on behalf of the Bureau of the following. Honourable Riigikogu! On 4 May, the Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Income Tax Act, the VAT Act and the Traffic Act. According to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has to appoint a commission and adopt the draft procedure. The Riigikogu Board discussed its adoption last Thursday and also today. There were 2 members of the Executive Board and 1 member against. Since the Management Board of the Riigikogu did not reach a consensus on this issue, I am exercising the right of a member of the Management Board of the Riigikogu pursuant to § 16 (4) of the Rules of Procedure Act, and I am voting on this issue in the Riigikogu plenary today. To be clear, the debate in the Bureau was as follows: whether it is a draft that should be in our proceedings as one draft or as several drafts. So political slang, whether or not it's a bunch. Its name is the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, the VAT Act and the Traffic Act. The fact that, together with the Income Tax Act, amendments to the VAT Act and the Traffic Act were also discussed did not give rise to any disagreement within the management board, as the amendments to the two laws relate to changes to the Income Tax Act and therefore it is correct to deal with them in a single draft. However, the dispute was whether it was appropriate to discuss the different sections of the Income Tax Act in a single draft or in several drafts. Two members of the board considered the subject to be one and the so-called strain of this draft is the amendment of the Income Tax Act. However, one member of the board felt that it was not appropriate to discuss issues such as taxation of options, taxation of the use of corporate cars and the special regime of banks for taxation in the same bill and should be in a separate procedure. Since no consensus was reached, we in today's House must decide whether or not to proceed with the draft. As you might have expected, there are questions for the Chairman of the Riigikogu here. I think that makes sense. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U4	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. It is certainly reasonable for the board to look at previous practice in this situation, and in the past we have had, let us admit, all kinds of experience. I also looked around our Riigikogu Archives and found that the Constitutional Committee had in its time written to the Riigikogu Board, sent it to the political groups as well, and said that if it is difficult to clearly distinguish the subject matter of the draft, or to regulate a number of problems of fundamental importance which concern the areas of competence of several committees, the draft preparers should consult the Riigikogu Board or Sector Commission in advance until such time that, if necessary, the draft must be returned to its initiators. Perhaps if the government had not held consultations before, my proposal would be not to discuss it today. The board can then send the bill back to the government, but the government can split it up and normally come to this hall with different drafts. Have you had the idea of returning the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U5	If the Plenary Assembly decides not to accept the draft, it shall not be admissible. In essence, there is no return as such, because there is an admission/non-imposition. Not taking it means returning. The letter from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also been discussed by the Bureau, but I must say that the members of the Bureau understand this differently. Two members are convinced that the subject that is being discussed in this draft is one of the amendments to the Income Tax Act, but one member of the Board of Directors considered that it was not right to discuss the various topics of the Income Tax Act within a single draft law. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U6	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I didn't quite understand your cryptic description. That's how I realized there's another cluster bill in front of us that's starting to tend to get here in the Riigikogu. But one of the board members, as you said, anonymously, was the only one in favour of good legislative practice and considered that such a draft should not be appointed at all by the Commission. I would like to know who was the only member of the board who stood up for good lawmaking practice and did not want to stick the cluster law again in this Chamber of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U7	Ladies and gentlemen, there were a lot of assessments on your question. The amendment to the Income Tax Act is not a cluster law. Two members of the board are convinced that in future the Riigikogu could discuss, for example, the full text of the Income Tax Act. And I guess there's a lot of policy to do here. After all, you can call a bunch anyone or anything. But it's more for the news. It is a purely technical amendment of the Income Tax Act. In the future, I think the Riigikogu could retain the right to discuss the full texts. Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U8	Thank you. To comment, in your opening statement you yourself said that this is a cluster bill on which the debate is taking place. But on Friday, the Committee on Monetary Affairs had the honour of listening half off the agenda to the Minister for Finance who presented this draft to the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Just as you are well aware, this bill changes the mortgage income tax, changes the procedure for calculating the special benefit for cars, changes the taxation of banks and also makes the taxation of options more favourable. You are referring to the fact that all of this is related to the Income Tax Act. Please describe what this common goal is to make these four important tax changes, in your own language, which is this strain! These four changes are all from completely different areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U9	This common strain is taxation of income. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question that explains this general numbness of the Riigikogu Board. I am saying that such clusters have come before us here before, and they have been sent with a relatively loose hand. I would like to congratulate this board member, whatever his name is. It seems to me that it is justified if it is decided by a large hall, but in fact it could still be decided by the fact that such clusters should be rejected. This type of procedure is not correct, which is probably because this board member has brought us bunches himself. Shouldn't the Riigikogu's board of directors be more consistent here or, let's say, straighter and always reject these things when they tend to come?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U11	The Board of the Riigikogu follows the current rules. Today we agreed so, and I hope that, after the preparatory work done in the office, the honourable members of the body of elders will also be ready to sit with the board and discuss it. This draft is the subject of a dispute as to whether or not it is a cluster bill. You can't really assume that if I like a passage in one bill, but somebody else doesn't like it, they can't be in one bill. There is no logic in this angle. However, we could argue with each other, both for us, because here, as initiators, we are presenting draft laws ourselves, as well as for the Government of the Republic, which is acceptable or what is not. Such a debate will come. Today, the Bureau unanimously asked, by example, that the Chancellery of the Riigikogu prepare the materials. Let's make a deal. The draft in question was based on the prescriptive documents in force by the initiator, which even seemed to prohibit the submission of the draft in a different way. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U12	Vladimir Ilyich Lenin has said the immortal words: 'He who speaks insanely also thinks insanely. ' We are currently dealing with a case where a gross legal error has been made in the Riigikogu's remote control. The point is that one law must regulate the same object and do it by the same method. I mean, you said he was regulating income. Let's be clear: it's not true! It regulates to a certain extent income and to a certain extent turnover. In this regard, Karl Marx's "Capital" is the first volume when we go socialist. In short, I would ask that the Chairman of the Board of the Riigikogu be prepared to correct this gross error on behalf of the verbatim and say that the cluster bill consists of some provisions governing turnover and others concerning revenue, so that we can get at least two laws out of here. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U13	The draft concerns the taxation of income. That's the point of this bill. And with a different approach, there would be a new question. Let me give you a simple example, honourable members of the Riigikogu. The public has been very interested in archiving the minutes of the work of the Riigikogu committees. This is stated in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Similarly, our Home and Working Procedures Act contains an order for Question Time, for example. Can we discuss these two things in the same bill? Let's meet, then, in the body of elders, and discuss! If not, the board will be guided by the fact that each section must be discussed as a separate draft. If so, we will continue to discuss them as we do now. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You said you could call anything a bunch. I, for example, do not name you, nor do I have to call you this bill. I would say, though, that such a clustering procedure is an awful thing to do. It is once again a law that is essentially put under our noses at night. There are conflicting issues inside, some of which would like to be supported, but some do not. So we're being pushed at a rate that's not human. My mistake maybe, but I didn't know to be ready for the committee the next day at 8:00 a.m. when the government was just discussing this bill. I really didn't know that, my mistake. But this is just one example of how legislation should not go at huge speeds, contrasting issues at once. If you are already producing several examples of the full text of the Income Tax Act, it is usually dealt with for months. In this case, these are very controversial things that we would like to discuss separately and actually vote separately. It would be a government opportunity to get a few points of support. Can't the board, however, intervene a little in the processing culture? It is a very consistent behaviour that does not care about the possibility of Riigikogu discussing matters in substance and voting separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U15	The Bureau intervenes very often in the culture of processing, so that two readings of one draft are not made during the Thursday working week, which is a typical example. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U16	Thank you. I just have a few questions to explain, because I'm not on the board. Did you have any mention of the main reason why you can't turn these drafts into more than one? We understand logically that the session is coming to an end, that there are night sittings and that there is one vote to be taken. Or is there a more practical explanation? Secondly, when we spoke today in the Committee on Monetary Affairs about this very draft, the chairman of the committee, Mikhail Stalnukhin, had a question that the Committee on Monetary Affairs had to do with changing the packaging system. It is like a substantive problem too, because each Commission still has its own speciality. Let me get this straight. The body of elders will be called to discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U17	Yes, we are going to discuss in the Board of Elders what one of the drafts must look like that is being put into procedure, so that we ourselves know this first in this Chamber and that the Government of the Republic, who also has the right to initiate drafts, would know what is appropriate to discuss or not to discuss. As for the practical questions you have asked, I don't think there's much to it. Maybe it's more practical that we're arguing about this for so long now, all the cameras are filming it, and it can be news, etc. I see no other practical need here, frankly, with all due respect. But we still have to discuss it. Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U18	Thank you, good manager. You have just said that it is not yet clear whether this is a cluster bill and whether it can be presented in this way at all. In this case, I do not understand what we are voting on here at all, ultimately, and how this issue has even become on the agenda. I also do not understand how it is possible for a government union that has not actually received a mandate for any of these changes to come here to the Riigikogu with all these drafts, not to mention that they are involved in a cluster. Furthermore, I would like to clarify, as colleagues have still not understood who it is exactly who voted against in the Bureau. Was that in Taavi's garment?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U19	Oh, my God! The President of the Riigikogu is always obliged to explain to those parliamentarians who do not understand, if necessary, several times. I'm ready to do this. In plain language: by the fact that this bill deals with one subject and taxation, they were Enn Eesmaa and Eiki Nestor. That this is a draft that should not be dealt with in a single draft, said Taavi Kõivas. I've never hidden it. If I didn't tell you, it's just because I thought you knew that. But I was wrong. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U20	Honourable Chairman! You have said several times that the common strain of this bill, the cluster bill, is the taxation of income. Just a moment ago, you also said that it is a tax on income and that it is a binding subject, a common strain. But on Friday, when the Minister of Finance introduced this bill to us at 8:00 p.m., he had everything separately, by block. One block is entitled "Download Taxation'. We are talking about the taxation of certain intra-group loans. Taxation is the subject of intra-group loans, i.e. the subject of taxation is the granting of loans and not the taxation of income. I'm asking you, why are you misinforming us?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U21	Look, Aivar Sõerd, I've been a member of the Monetary Affairs Committee for years, you don't fool me with such a simple trick, between you and me. The question is how to tax these loans. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U22	Thank you. It is quite good to continue here, because the content of the draft that we are talking about here today or which we are debating is, after all, the introduction of a number of completely new taxes. These are all different taxes and, by tying them all together, Members will be deprived of the opportunity to shape their position on each of them, i.e. to decide separately, to discuss separately, to deal separately. And, of course, in order to make everything even more confusing and complicated, the proposal for a more favourable taxation of participation options already planned by the previous government has already been put into the trap of this whole bunch. But my question is actually similar to Aivar Sõerdi's question. If you claim that this common core is taxation of income, how exactly is the kilowatt-based tax on companies' cars, which is similarly intended to be introduced by this bill, linked to income taxation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U23	This is linked to the fact that corporate car taxation is currently covered by the Income Tax Act. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U24	Dear friend! Members of the Riigikogu are also obliged to explain to the Chairman of the Riigikogu if he does not understand anything. How many years can the Committee on Monetary Affairs be empty? Now that's the kind of thing. You see, influencing income and taxing income are two things yourself. All our lives are affected by our fulcrum, moods, things, song parties. It all affects, but it's not profit. Sõerd told you now, and above it was also mentioned that there is taxation, which you will take the turnover into, and, worst of all, intra-corporate turnover. And now, Marx is turning himself around in the grave as excise duty. Please, the Head of the Riigikogu, by noting the substantive political economic issues that have practical meaning for this law, would this theoretical assumption be practically met?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U25	Practically, the Head of the Riigikogu is always grateful when members of the Riigikogu make him smarter. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U26	Thank you. I did not intend to ask a procedural question, but it seems to me that in order for this discussion not to go beyond the understandable frame, I owe a certain explanation. Firstly, this is not a political issue in this case. This is about the protection of democratic procedures. This is a question of whether the government has the right, if it wishes, to process in Parliament all kinds of new taxes that affect the lives of very many people, some of which may be positive and some may be negative, so that each member of the Riigikogu can be in favour of the introduction of one tax and oppose the introduction of another tax. There are entirely legitimate differences of opinion on this in this Chamber. Also, is Parliament guaranteed all democratic procedures to involve stakeholders, some of whom have expressed a very strong argument in favour of the taxation of options for one of the proposed changes? This is not an initiative of the current government, but has already been launched earlier, and in favour of it, I believe, the majority of the opposition, perhaps even the opposition as a whole, is also willing to vote. On the other hand, the same kilowatt-based taxation of cars, whose designation for income tax or taxation of income is, to say the least, creative, has been highly criticised. The fact that the kilowatt-based taxation of cars is not done honestly as a car tax, but by hiding it in the Income Tax Act does not make it less a car tax. I would like to draw attention to this, as Mr Pevkur has already pointed out, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said in 2011: different problems in substance must be dealt with in separate drafts. I quote from the letter from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: 'The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is of the opinion that it is necessary to consider as a cluster bill a single draft of proposals with different core or stem problems, which do not have a common object and objective of regulation. " In this case, the question is whether these drafts have a common purpose. If you read the explanatory statement, I don't think that's the case. My question is simple: do you think that both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice and, in the past, the Chancellor of Justice and the President have been mistaken when they have pointed out that this could be a cluster bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U27	First of all, I have to say that I am very sorry that the board member is not fulfilling the promises made in the Bureau. But all right, I think it might be good for the vote anyway. The question is, what is one strain or one theme? In this case, the subject is income tax, taxation of income. In this sense, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has failed in no way, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has interpreted this matter very sensibly. In this respect, we did not have any disagreements in the Bureau either, because the VAT law and the traffic law are being amended in conjunction with the changes in income tax. The debate is about whether different topics can be dealt with in a single law. Let me give a simple example: can one law deal with the taxation of individual income and the taxation of corporate income? It's okay for now. If we get together in the body of elders and come to the conclusion that, oh, it's terrible and it's a cluster, then we can't. It is now one draft, and as such the two members of the Governing Board take it. So here the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been precise. Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U28	Thank you. The fact that the common strain or objective is the taxation of income is what separates our views. The Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, presented this draft to us in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on Friday. This concerns the taxation of loans, as was the case here before, and the additional kilowatt-based taxation of corporate cars. Yes, these other changes to the shareholder option and also to the deposit income tax are accepted as income taxation, but the first two are certainly not. Now, what advice would you give to members of the Riigikogu if, for example, I would like to support a more favourable taxation of participation options, but do not want to support the three other proposals that, according to your version, are to be put to a single vote? That's the problem. First of all, I have a fix in that we define the problem of the strain differently and, secondly, the members of the Riigikogu are deprived of the opportunity to vote on all these very different changes separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U29	Thank you for this question. I haven't repeated it here. This situation, where a member of the Riigikogu wishes to be in favour and against at the same time in the case of a law, is everyday. This is happening for both coalition and opposition members, and there is nothing weird about it. You have to get used to it when you're in opposition. But I will give you the simple advice: the amendments that are in the law and which the MP does not like can be proposed and deleted after the first reading. That's it. Later on, the Commission, and, if necessary, the Plenary Assembly, will decide whether or not they will remain in the law. That's the point of processing. So there's nothing complicated about it in itself. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U30	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, it would have been better to repeat that, after the discussion in the board, given the desire to discuss it already in the body of elders, this draft would not have come to this vote at all. It seems to me that this cluster definition has been moved to a very legal level, but actually it could be solved quite simply. The concern of the members of the Riigikogu is that if you go to a store and want to buy cluster tomatoes, for example, you will not buy tomatoes that are completely rotten and black, but you will keep them. Members of the Riigikogu do not currently have this possibility. Can't you give me that definition, describe the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U31	Would all the drafts that would like to be in favour and against at the same time be divided into two parts so that they can be in favour and against? This, I think, is going to be technically complicated because there are 101 of us here, and in that case, every paragraph should be discussed one by one. Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U32	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I come back to the question posed by Aivar Sõerd. I didn't understand that answer. The question was quite specific: how are intra-group corporate loans linked to income taxation? Your answer to this particular question was that you have been a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs for years and are not fooling you. I really don't know what your personal relationship with Aivar Sõerd is and how you get along with each other, I don't care about it either, but I'd still be interested in the answer. How does this strain relate to the granting of loans within the group related to the taxation of income? It should be a strain in terms of this bill. Please explain this to us!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U33	My personal relationship with Aivar Sõerd is great, don't worry, we've been through a great life. It is linked by the fact that the law talks about how intra-group loans are taxed. Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U34	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I understand that the Bureau did not reach a common position, and now you brought it to this hall for us to decide. I have to admit that I am not a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and I have not yet had the opportunity to examine this draft. At the same time, I heard you say that the body of elders should be discussed, introduced, discussed. Wouldn't it be better to take this bill back to your room and then, once you've figured out whether it's a cluster or not, bring it to this hall or send it back and separate it? How can I make a decision today without getting to know the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U35	What we decide is whether or not to proceed with the draft and whether or not to appoint a commission. That's all we have to decide right now. What happens to this bill later, how long it will be dealt with, which sections will remain, which Riigikogu decides to exclude from it, this is all the future. The question is whether or not to proceed with the draft. But since the question was sincere, as I sincerely believe, in plain language, we have under discussion whether in the future I can repeat myself, but I think this example is very simple in the same bill to deal with corporate income taxation and personal income taxation. Two members of the Board consider that it can, because it is a tax on income and the name of the Act is also the Income Tax Act, but one member of the Board considers that it cannot. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U36	Thank you, good Chairman. Looking for one of the trunks of this bill, it can be said that this bill does indeed have one strain: a massive budget hole created by the current government and an attempt to level that hole in some way. However, Parliament will be deprived of the right and the opportunity to discuss, in substance, completely different amendments. This is being tried hastily and in violation of all sorts of good practices. My question is the same. If you claim that there are proposals of a single nature here, what is the link between, for example, the introduction of a pledge tax, the advance payment of banks, the introduction of a kilowatt-based tax on companies' cars and, for example, the more favourable taxation of participation options? What is the connection between these things and the common strain?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U37	They are all covered by the Income Tax Act. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U38	Thank you. Let us be honest, no one, even the coalition has no real doubt that this is a classic cluster bill. In 2015 and 2016, the worst piece of legislation was nailed to the public by cluster tax laws, which were characterised as examples of bad and even evil legislation. As at the time, there is no extraordinary need to implement laws in haste and through a bad legislative process. Why would a coalition that promised a new, honest and transparent policy use such a shameful practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U39	I'm not authorized to answer that question. But as far as haste is concerned, the Bureau has three working days to decide whether or not to proceed with the draft. We couldn't spend more time than we did to this day. On the basis of the law, we have no way of thinking about whether to take it or not. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I grabbed your word and asked for confirmation, in the form of self-education, that you really think that the loan is profitable.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U41	This draft concerns the taxation of income when a loan is granted within a group. Honourable Riigikogu, I shall put the question to the vote. Who is in favour of adopting the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, the VAT Act and the Road Traffic Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, including 4 May, and to appoint the Finance Commission as the commission? Please take a stand and vote. There were 50 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 39 against, no abstentions. The draft law amending the Income Tax Act, the VAT Act and the Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been processed and the Finance Commission has been appointed as the lead commission. Agenda. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the agenda for the 14th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Peace in the hall, please! If there's anything you want to say, then... Igor Gräzin, procedural question on the approval of the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U42	Since the agenda now became unspokenly confusing after the appointment of this committee, i.e. we no longer know what to think about on the agenda, I would like to ask you personally, as you speak personally, to say that there are no problems on the agenda that we are voting on. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U43	No, it's not. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 14th working week of the fifth plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda, 4 against, 9 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U44	According to the approved agenda, the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Artur Talvik, Andres Herkel, Monika Haukanõmme, Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Jüri Adams and Ain Lutsep has been discussed first. Arthur Talvik, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U45	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Chancellor of Justice! The questioning of the members of the Free Party Group concerns the so-called Cat Arturi case, which is related to the fact that during the election campaign of the Riigikogu, stickers remained on my personal car, which could be interpreted in two ways. There was, for example, a sticker 'Choose Cat Artur! ' and some website address, and I got a ticket. I appealed to the court, and on 16 February the Tallinn Circuit Court issued a ruling. I read it out loud: 'To recognise § 51 [---] of the Riigikogu Election Act as in breach of the Constitution and not apply it in so far as it prohibits the political outdoor advertising of a candidate in the party's list during the active agitation of the candidate's personal use on the passenger car. " Since the district court declared this decision unconstitutional, it automatically goes to the Supreme Court. When things go to the Supreme Court, the College of the Supreme Court asks the opinions of different institutions and, among other things, she asked Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise. In his opinion, the Chancellor of Justice considers that the decision could, in fact, be even wider, so that this restriction should also be removed from the Local Government Election Act and the European Parliament Election Act, and says in his opinion that in fact the restriction should also be removed from all movable property in private use. This topic is very important to the Free Party. We have stood for ensuring political competition and have fought very hard to ensure that the role of money in the political struggle in Estonia is less important and more substantial. The judgment also states that this restriction does not reduce the share of money in the political struggle or in political advertising, nor does it increase the role of substantive or political debate in political advertising. We have asked the Chancellor of Justice four questions about this, and today it is very pleased to hear their answers. I hope the Chancellor of Justice will also read the questions one by one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U46	Now there's a situation where I don't even know what to do when I know I'm happy. The Chancellor of Justice, Ülle Madis, must answer. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U47	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you for your question. It is extremely important, particularly in view of the approaching local elections, to ask whether all applicants are clear about their limitations, prohibitions and rights. For the Chancellor of Justice, as well as for my two predecessors, this issue has been a problem for years. It has now become ever more acute, especially since life has changed, but the standards that have been formulated many years ago, which define the ban on outdoor advertising, have remained unchanged. At the same time, we have seen balancing on their borders, we have seen punishments and restrictions that are obviously contrary to the aims of this law. Moreover, we see almost every day the hypocrisy that inevitably arises when things are not clear to people. It is also not clear whether a breach of the rules is punishable and, if so, who is the subject of the rules and what those rules are. But of all this, I hope, later and probably in many other formats. Indeed, the questions have been submitted as motivated by my position of 21 March including the Supreme Court. In my position, I really asked the Supreme Court to look at questions not only in the context of the Riigikogu Election Act, as the Riigikogu elections are coming in 2019, if there is no need for extraordinary elections, so we need clarity much faster, already for local elections. If, for example, the absolute ban on outdoor advertising during active agitation in the Riigikogu elections is declared unconstitutional, but there is nothing to be said about local elections, then it is clear that everything is confusing. Then it will be possible for the Chancellor of Justice to come immediately to the Riigikogu with a proposal to bring the law into line with the Constitution, which we are preparing for, but it would still be better if the Supreme Court considered it right to extend its view. So the questions of the heirs were as follows. First of all, if the Supreme Court annuls the prohibition of political outdoor advertising on personal items prior to the local elections, is there legal clarity as to which field advertising is permitted and what is not? " Second: " What do you think are reasonable restrictions on outdoor advertising that ensure equal treatment for all political forces and limit the share of money in political competition? " Third: " What would you consider alternatives to restricting outdoor advertising to ensure a more level playing field in the election campaign? ' And fourthly, are the campaign restrictions currently in force, in conjunction with the funding of political parties and candidates, guaranteeing equal opportunities for candidates or creating unacceptable advantages for some of them? ' I hope you don't mind if I answer all your questions at once. I will also say at once that, since this question is still in the proceedings of the Supreme Court, I ask that all my views and answers be understood in this key, that once the Supreme Court has made its decision, it is to be enforced. Our authorities will certainly draw their own conclusions on how to move forward in order to ensure the constitutionality of the restrictions on the funding and advertising of political parties. I would also like to apologise in advance for the fact that, obviously, all the questions and in the very way that perhaps has been taken into account, I cannot answer as far as it is a party policy that I do not intervene in. But for starters. In my opinion, there are three general constitutional principles according to which all the rules and restrictions of the electoral campaign must be established. Firstly, a level playing field must be created for all candidates. This means that there must be no rules that create obvious advantages for anyone. For example, there are questions about the use of city or rural municipality premises on the conditions under which applicants must be granted access. Secondly, all rules and restrictions must be constitutional, including understandable, reasonably enforceable, verifiable and controlled. A situation where those who break the rules have advantages must be avoided. Here, for example, is advertising candidates for taxpayers' money, including on municipal media, but you probably know these examples better than I do. Thirdly, all and all sources of funding for the political campaign must be published and controlled by the supervisory body, because political corruption cannot otherwise be avoided. For example, one of the clear gaps in the law for a party or candidate can be advertised for money the origin of which is not published. Of course, given the freedom of expression, the right of people and associations to campaign before the elections should not be restricted, but the control of the origin of resources in constitutional and proportionate form is likely to be essential and entirely manageable in order to prevent corruption. Yes, the absolute ban on outdoor advertising during active agitation, i.e. 35 days before election day, is, in my opinion, unconstitutional. In answer to your question more specifically, I believe that it is against the Constitution because, especially on local occasions, it creates advantages for well-known political parties and candidates throughout the country. Indeed, local candidates, such as local electoral associations, are in a worse position. In the judgment of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of 1 July 2010, there is a difference of opinion between the Supreme Judge Jüri Põld, where he refers precisely to the fact that local candidates who have never sought or entered national politics, as well as local electoral associations, may be present in local elections because of the ban on outdoor advertising in a situation where there is no effective way of reaching voters during the autumn when the elections of the council take place. Perhaps candidates and their views are presented with a reasonable size, i.e. A4 or somewhat larger posters or publications placed, for example, in the bus waiting pavilion, local store, library or post office as many as they are still available on the walls, may be the only effective method available to candidates to advertise themselves. It is certainly impossible to reach these candidates, and it is, of course, a good thing to introduce all the resources that those already in power in this area or in the city have thus gained access to, and to, current, different ways and under different labels, and thus to keep their candidates known. Most individual candidates and electoral alliances cannot participate in this challenge of field advertising borders. Mr Talvik is, of course, a bold exception here, not in the key to misusing public resources, but in the fact that he had the courage to test the limits imposed on a private individual on advertising at his own expense. Legally, the absolute ban on outdoor advertising just before the elections is also problematic, as it is a restriction on electoral rights, freedom of expression and a number of other fundamental rights. All these arguments were submitted to the Supreme Court by Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder in 2009, following the elections to the European Parliament, on all electoral laws. The General Assembly of the Supreme Court did not support this request at the time, considering that the ban on outdoor advertising is not constitutionally required, but may be imposed. This solution had a number of differences of opinion, of which I referred to Jüri Põllu's. I would also like to reply to the question of what reasonable alternatives to the ban on outdoor advertising, by quoting the Supreme Judge Jüri Põld, who held the profession of professor of constitutional law at the University of Tartu before me and has dealt with these topics very thoroughly. I share many of his thoughts. In fact, he found that the ban on outdoor advertising, in particular in local elections just before the elections, was completely unconstitutional, because none of the three objectives that had been set did, in fact, contribute significantly. Firstly, the target is a reduction in costs. In reality, the absolute ban on outdoor advertising, especially in local elections, tends to limit the opportunities and increase the costs of candidates with fewer financial opportunities. In particular, outdoor advertising is shifted especially to those who consider it worthwhile to do so long before the elections, even in the current round of the year, to an earlier period. This has also been seen in national elections. Second, advertising shifts to either a more expensive or more difficult channel, or television, as well as to printed media. Online advertising can be both cheap and expensive, but the fact is that, especially in local elections, professional online advertising may not be an effective measure everywhere, because a large part of the electorate cannot get it, so it does not speak to them. The idea of banning outdoor advertising was also to make the debate more substantive. Here Jüri Põld, in his dissenting opinion, says very well that the content of the electoral debate does not depend so much on prohibitions and restrictions as on how motivated candidates are to discuss themselves on a case-by-case basis and on a factual basis. So, already in 2010, words that fit the current context were said so well: it is probably not possible, by law, to cancel slogans and unspeakable, sometimes bragging promises. The content of the debate depends on both the candidate and the voter. The cleanliness of public space was also sought. Here I shift a little away from the words of Jüri Põllu, but in reality the public space did not become cleaner in the sense that even in the national elections, outdoor advertising simply shifted to earlier times and the garbage dumps passionate about the hard-breaking posters in exactly the same way. So it seems, as current practice shows, that this ban has not served its objectives very well. I would therefore like to hope that there will be clear views on whether the absolute ban on outdoor advertising in local elections before the elections is constitutional or not. Is it clear what is allowed and what is forbidden for the forthcoming election of the council? The issue currently before the Supreme Court is narrowly defined, only by the Riigikogu Election Act and only by car. That is why I asked the Supreme Court, for reasons of legal clarity, to give a position not only on the car, but on all movable matters at the disposal of the candidate, and not only for the elections of the Riigikogu, but also for the local government council and the elections of the European Parliament. In principle, I also believe that it is possible that the absolute ban on outdoor advertising during active agitation is against the Constitution only in local elections, but not in national elections, because there is, in fact, a national campaign, the national media much easier to access. And now, specifically, about clarity. If the Supreme Court invalidates the candidate's car and hopefully other movable matters, because, for example, the motorbike or Segway are not much different from the ban on advertising in Riigikogu elections, it is certainly unconstitutional also in local elections. There are two possible cases. First of all, the Supreme Court either extends this prohibition itself to local governments and revokes the relevant provision of the Local Government Council Election Act or does not do so, but in this case the Chancellor of Justice intervenes very quickly and I hope to the support of the Riigikogu. In this case, too, the question of allowing other outdoor advertising of a reasonable size in local elections remains, depending on the assessments of the Supreme Court, I hope to continue to deal with it myself. The Supreme Court also takes the view that this prohibition was constitutional in the Riigikogu elections and tries to extend the advertising law here, for example, as has been done in some previous court decisions. However, this is accompanied by a minor problem, namely that the Consumer Protection Board has not seen an extension of the advertising law to election advertising, and it is relatively difficult to interpret the LAVS and the advertising law together in this way. In short, on any arguments, the Supreme Court may also find that this prohibition was constitutional in the Riigikogu elections, but that does not mean that the same prohibition would be against the Constitution in local elections. Well, then we'll have to move on with the request for clarity. Thank you so much for asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U48	Questions for the Chancellor of Justice. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your answers. There's a lot of ideas here. One of these is whether the agitation prior to the active agitation period is active or passive. If this is done for a lot of money, I think it's a pre-active agitation. But this thing goes beyond what we are asking about the combination of campaign restrictions and the arrangements for funding political parties and candidates on the fourth question. Are there any other aspects after outdoor advertising? For example, could one of the three principles, or equal opportunities, be seriously affected by the fact that electoral alliances are not publicly funded, but the lists of political parties have been funded in local elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U50	Thank you very much. The time of active agitation came as a concept of "turn-on', as Mr Jüri Adams certainly remembers, and probably some of the people in this hall will still remember when the ban on outdoor advertising was introduced. Then there were two arguments. First, it was discussed whether agitation could be called arousal or agitation, and second, it was attempted to find a common name for the time that followed the registration of candidates, i.e. the moment when the figures were already known. Now, with regard to equal opportunities for electoral alliances, there is public funding for parliamentary parties, and then some for those who have gathered enough votes and support, but Parliament did not receive it. There is indeed a difference here, but we have analysed it with advisors and we did not find the current situation to be unconstitutional in the sense that electoral alliances are not provided for taxpayers' money. However, your reference to unequal opportunities is justified in the context that too much support for national parties really puts both new entrants and electoral associations and smaller political parties at risk in the context of local elections. That is why it seems to me that it is worth dealing with the issue of how much state budget support can be given to a political party, so that it does not limit the constitutionally promised rate to the opportunities of others.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U51	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U52	Thank you. I should start by saying first that I have probably never been there when the expression 'active agitation period' was introduced in Estonia. In my opinion, this is one typical example of exceptionally inappropriate wording. The logic of the Estonian language says that there should be an opportunity to talk about passive agitation. What would that mean? But here's my question. In this area, the terms have probably been used against the common meanings of the Estonian language all the time. What you used as outdoor advertising is probably a visual agitation when we try to say the most precisely in Estonian. Now the question is, should sound agitation, such as electronic agitation, etc., be resolved in the same way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U53	Thank you! That's exactly what I was referring to at the beginning. In fact, it is extremely difficult to define advertising and the resulting ban. If the aim is to ensure that there is no political advertising in a public space or in a public place, just before the election day, there is really a question of giving every mast installation, sound or sign, object some kind of meaning. So this is going to be a very interesting expert task for advertising experts. That is why I would be extremely pleased if the Riigikogu took action and tried to find clarity in this area before the Riigikogu elections. There's probably not much to go on for local elections right now. If the Supreme Court makes its own case, and I am sure it will do so soon, then we will probably get a lot more clarity, but there is still no complete clarity. So it would be very good if it was taken as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U54	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U55	Good Chairman! Good Chancellor of Justice, thank you for your answers. Your position on advertising on personal matters is very clear. But outdoor advertising is also all these big posters and there are other options, for my sake even speakers are sending a message somewhere, and so on. You're telling me that this kind of visual rhyming isn't going to get rid of the restriction. But do you have any idea what this option could be to ensure equal opportunities for outdoor advertising? How can you make outdoor advertising reasonably equal for everyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U56	Thank you! This issue is also closely linked to the method of analysis and work of the Chancellor of Justice, because we dare to express the view that something is unconstitutional and something should be done differently only if there is a clear vision that can be done differently and better. Of course, society and the law of the Riigikogu do not have to allow super expensive posters of house size. No, you don't. Many countries have also found the possibility to set the volume of outdoor advertising at the upper limit of the electoral costs. It is possible to set up panels of experts, control bodies, which help to achieve a political culture in which the political campaign is not organised or limited to the police, the prosecutor's office and the court, but to the political culture and society itself. However, alternatives are entirely available since the local government unit shows the places where all candidates can place their advertising on an equal footing. It has a candidate's number, mostly pictures, as well as basic positions in local elections about local life issues, i.e. where there is a school and where there is a kindergarten, i.e. what is the basis for public space planning, what additional benefits are foreseen, etc. It is possible to indicate such places. Similarly, it is really possible to set the volume of your limitations. It is certainly possible to cross these borders, too, and this requires some control work, but most of all, I believe in the development of culture at the same time. So, indeed, the Supreme Court currently only has advertising on the car, we extended it to all movable matters, but in fact the problem is much wider and still includes outdoor advertising in terms of small or slightly larger posters.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U57	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U58	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Chancellor of Justice! I would like you to specify what is still a public space, because, in terms of the campaign, especially during the active campaign period, we actually treat the internet, television and radio as a public space in real policy terms, all of which belong to one 'noise space'. Please specify exactly what is meant by public space in this case. Is this really just the outer territory or the yard we're talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U59	Another excellent question, and so far without a single answer. Field ads have now been trying to be defined for over ten years. There is, in fact, no definitive definition of political advertising or of political outdoor advertising. But, in suming up the case law, the explanatory notes and the debates so far, I can say that this is the whole space that is located in a free-of-charge accessible space for the public or is visible from there. However, this still does not rule out the question of whether someone can, for example, wear their candidate number and perhaps some other advertising clothes and move around the street like this. There have been debates about whether a person can place a poster with his or her own number in his or her home, for example. These questions on a case-by-case basis are, in fact, still not clear. So in this context, public space is meant a public place, that is, a place accessible to the public. Then, of course, they immediately ask whether, for example, a shopping centre that has limited access during the night and tends to operate as a city street during the day is an indoor or outdoor space. It's probably more like outdoor advertising there, too. But it's the right question. That would be one of those things that could be solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U60	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U61	Thank you. Madam Chancellor! You claim that the increased funding of major parties for elections is, as if, restricting the opportunities for small parties to stand as candidates. But there are more members of the larger parties, and they also bring more people to the Riigikogu or the City Council. Don't you think that the representatives of the larger parties should receive a pro rata increase because they also spend on more people?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U62	Thank you very much for the clarification. I'd be happy to explain it again. I replied this way: in my opinion, the situation that the parties not yet represented in the Riigikogu and who have not collected the required votes from the state budget are not receiving support from the state budget is not unconstitutional. However, too much state budget support may prove to be unconstitutional. In this sense, I have not argued that the current support is too large.. although it is certainly worth analysing, and the reasons you have put forward for the existence of a state budget at all are, in my opinion, absolutely weighty. I fully share them, and these are also the reasons why starting parties need not necessarily be given the same financial opportunities for taxpayers' money as parties that have built up their own structure, constantly inform their members, organise events required by law and are subject to audit. Of course, they do not need to be treated equally at all, but it is still possible that the national budget allocation for the party will prevent and limit equal treatment for others.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U63	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In your presentation you referred to the fact that election alliances may not have the same funding, although we know that political party members are also running for election alliances, and we cannot guarantee that these individual members will not be funded from this possible party's money. But you also referred to another question concerning the delivery of information to certain persons. When we talk specifically about an area where the mayor has been in power for four years, a certain type of visibility is clearly better than one of the new candidates who will come. I would ask this question: in order to balance this four-year visibility, which is objective and inevitable through a mandate, should, on the contrary, increase their opportunities in terms of volume and visibility of advertising?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U65	Thank you very much. It's a political choice. We do not see any constitutional requirements or obstacles here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U66	Thank you, Chancellor Ülle Madise! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Jüri Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U67	I am sorry, Mr President. I was having second thoughts. There's no way I can get used to the choking conditions of our Rules of Procedure. Someone told me before that there should be an opportunity for every vigilante to express his opinion, not just on behalf of the inquisitors. But when I got here, I'd like to give you a few examples. You see, in September 1992 the elections of the VII Riigikogu were held. At the time, there was no party law, no rules on public funding for political parties, and no advertising law. All these elections took place more or less as perfectly as the Chancellor of Justice described here, without any problems. I'd make a generalization here that a lot of things are forgotten by the old ones. Several things are likely to arise because later in writing laws, this has been done either unwittingly or deliberately selfishly. The easiest way to achieve the situation that once existed would be to repeal the current laws. Then we would probably have a much better situation than we do now. I do not envy the Supreme Court in making this decision. There are several problems here. One is that the Supreme Court has been asked whether it should change its decisions that have been made. In any event, it is difficult to make such an amendment decision, although obviously necessary and necessary. On the other hand, what is this material, which is the basis of the laws, a normative basis on which the Supreme Court should carry out its task? I would point out here that perhaps most of the troubles we have started when the first advertising law was passed in Estonia, it was either 1996 or 1997. Those who did this law, those who wrote the bill, and later those who dealt with it, probably I too was one who voted in favour of it and made a number of mistakes, which we did not see foreseen at the time, and should now be corrected. The main mistake is, of course, the concept of advertising in general. According to the law, advertising is the result of the activities of professional advertising companies. This concept of itself is relatively dubious, because there are at least two basic types: there is such an advertising that seeks income, and there is a different kind of advertising that does not apply for income, perhaps from the look of the switch-off. There's been a first conceptual mistake about this thing. However, it would probably also be very difficult for the Supreme Court to draw the same conclusion in relation to both types, depending on the circumstances, in different ways. We are now faced with the issue of pseudo-advertising activities where an individual adopts something that indirectly resembles the production of professional advertising companies, i.e. wearing clothes with a message on it, putting a sticker on his car, or putting some visual thing on his garden or wall. These cases are certainly not comparable to professional advertising. If the Estonian state goes the way of formalism that equates things with different content, then our country is quite poor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U68	Honourable Riigikogu! I think I'm gonna have to give a little explanation for the verbatim or fix myself. In the case of inquiries, all members of the Riigikogu can take the floor; there are no restrictions here. However, I must give the floor to one of the heirs first. I concluded earlier that Jüri Adams wanted to speak on behalf of the inquisitors, but that was not the case. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu, Chancellor of Justice! I'm probably gonna have to make a statement. We are dealing with such a friendly collective in the Free Party that, in general, there is no big difference, whose speech is written on behalf of the heirs, and whose one, if you wish to interpret it in this way, is a solo performance. However, I would very much like to thank the Chancellor of Justice for their answers. And, in fact, there, the two of them are also talking about Artur Talvik, whose actions helped raise a very important problem and have now brought it before the Supreme Court. I think it's very important. All these stories are, unfortunately, very long bearded. Firstly, the refusal to define policy advertising over a very long period of time, although it has been pointed out that this should be done, has led to a number of strange and bad consequences, including the fact that this same ban on outdoor advertising has increasingly produced hypocrisy. One part of hypocrisy is certainly what we realized with the first impetus that one media channel has been completely erased from the campaign struggle of the parties with a large purse, so it has been achieved that money flows to other media. However, this is certainly not fair competition. Secondly, it began to appear quite quickly that, indeed, the active agitation was preceded by another 'active agitation' while this formal restriction was not in force, it was still open advertising and, in fact, the sellers of outdoor advertising space did not quite lose their money. But the whole question of what is active agitation and what is passive agitation suggests that these things are not very reasonably defined. But the third one, and I think that, in the current context, perhaps the most important one, is that society probably did not understand one thing in all this ban; it is such a micro-level campaign. That's what the Chancellor of Justice was talking about, referring to Jüri Põllu. At local level, a person may not have any other available campaign tool but to put his picture and a little writing on a public stand somewhere. In other parts of the world, we see a great deal of this: not these superhuman posters, but small campaign posters of perfectly normal size have been awarded to candidates in local governments, on the same terms as those available, and everyone can put their messages and posters there. So, obviously, as a whole, we were too much to think about the areas of this great campaign, actually forgetting the grassroots level of the event, so that the candidate could really show himself on his own property, or even the municipality could give them surfaces where all candidates can show themselves on equal terms. Finally, I consider the answer given by the Chancellor of Justice to the question of equal terms or violation of the local electoral alliances' campaign to be very remarkable. Indeed, it can be viewed in two ways. It can be raised by the fact that local electoral federations are discriminated against by not being financed from the state budget, while the list of political parties has the possibility of using the money from the state through political parties to campaign. But the question can also be raised in the opposite direction, saying that political parties receive too much of this money. It is probably no secret to anyone in this Chamber that the Free Party Group has tried to solve this problem both ways. Both by significantly reducing the funding of political parties and through the draft law on supporting local democracy in order to give electoral alliances. In any case, we are grateful that the Chancellor of Justice sees this as a problem in itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U70	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U71	Good Chairman! Happy few MPs who have stayed in this hall in the early hours of the evening! Yes, political competition is, in my opinion, a measure of our openness and of the health of our democratic regime. Will we get there and want to deal with it and talk about it, that is the question of our choices. If we want to be an open and democratic state, we should look at the next nuances of political inequality. Today we have talked about campaign conditions that are limited to the use of public money, which we actually use very actively, and we are still powerless and do not want to deal with this issue. Advertising volumes, time limits, etc. The length of the lists is regulated in the case of elections to the European Parliament and elections to the Riigikogu, but at the local government level, this issue is unaffected and once again puts political lists in different situations. The conditions and procedures for financing ?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? I recall that several years ago, a petition was submitted to the Riigikogu, which specifically concerned the problem of overeating political parties. It proposed a very clear solution, on the one hand, concerning the financing of political parties. The funding of political parties should be targeted, i.e. once again we are talking about equal opportunities between civil society organisations. Political parties are, for some reason, the exception in society, which does not have to apply for one or the other allocation, but who, at best, are looking for tricks on how to submit their report afterwards. The proposal was to establish an equal allocation of campaign costs for all the full lists so that all successful lists would receive equal support for developing worldview and the operating costs would be counted according to the election results, i.e. it would have been revalued, not as is currently the case with the number of members of the Riigikogu, but with its own price for each vote. So far, both two years ago and in the near future, when a new government coalition was formed, the Social Democratic Party has spoken the loudest of campaign and advertising terms. I also remember that from 2015 when I was at the negotiating table. Indeed, the Chancellor of Justice's observation was very correct: unequal and unclear situations should be resolved at the level of the Riigikogu itself. According to the law, this can be done a year before the Riigikogu elections. But if you notice, this year will soon come, and we will be able to deal with these issues in essence in this calendar year. Therefore, the sentence in the coalition agreement 'Let's make electoral campaigns ideas-based, not money- and volume-based' would actually require major initiatives as early as this year. I certainly call on the coalition to take it seriously and to carry it out. Because we have seen very much that the opposition can take these initiatives, but if you do not have the right status, they will remain initiatives. However, the problem is serious and concerns both the contradiction in the meaning of our constitution and the sense of justice in the souls of ordinary citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U72	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to speak. Is there anything the Chancellor of Justice would like to add? No, I don't. Thank you, Ülle Madise! I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U73	The next item is the question submitted by Viktoria Ladynskaja, member of the Riigikogu. Please, Viktoria Ladynskaya!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U74	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, This Saturday there were powerful talcums in Estonia, more than a hundred people standing in shops in different Estonian cities in order to collect donations from cancer patients, especially for those who have the hope of buying the medicines they needed and prolonging their lives or getting better, but who were told that they would no longer be supported by the Health Insurance Fund. Many politicians were also involved in this hall in order to ask for donations from the people. I guess I don't have to explain to you that one very popular question from the donors was that you can always hear how large sums of money from the state budget go to one thing and another, but when cancer patients have life and death, you come to the public for more. Unfortunately, there is a point here. And that was what my question was about. An inquiry is linked to a healthcare funding scheme. I would remind you that a few months ago, doctors approached the government and their message was clear: the availability and quality of medical care has deteriorated critically. I stress that the problem is not just about money, but about the whole system. This problem is acutely highlighted in the financing of cancer treatment. During the last three years, there have been at least a hundred situations in Estonia where the cancer patient has been denied funding for his or her treatment. To understand what it means, I'm describing the situation. In real life, it looks something like this. The patient will know he's diagnosed with cancer and metastases, but since the cancer is in the final stage, there will be no surgery. In some cases, people are told that there is actually a medicine that can affect the course of the disease, reduce pain, prolong quality of life, or even cure you, but it is not available because it is not funded by the health insurance fund. The price of the medicinal product is around EUR 5000-6000 per month. Knowing that the sum is quite large and no one gives it, the citizen exits the office. Of course, it is wonderful that there was a fund called "Gived Life," which collects donations and buys these medicines instead of a health insurance fund. If you look at the Fund's statistics, it turns out that a large number of people have sought help through the Fund and applied for support several times. This means, however, that this medicine has helped them, which has extended their lives. Yeah, still can't guarantee a positive outcome. At the same time, the fund has a number of examples where the so-called 'non-cost-effective cancer patient', whose country has, like, written off, has been even recognised as well or has the hope of complete recovery. The question is that a doctor should have the opportunity to use the available resources to prolong life, and a situation would arise where the family would find out at the most difficult moment that the country is with them and has not turned its back on them. I therefore have six main questions. I very much hope that before the Minister answers, he will read them to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U75	Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U76	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good inquisitor! Of course, I read the questions as always. Thank you for the opportunity to speak on this important issue in this honourable Chamber of the Riigikogu. It is undoubtedly difficult to answer a number of these questions. And not because the answers are not known, but because the large and complex health management system, which serves nearly 1.2 million people every year in Estonia, must be managed as one large and complex system is managed. However, this means adapting one or the other decision to the individual in each case; it is not always possible for a person's needs to be adapted. This, of course, is not just Estonia's speciality, i.e. to say that the Estonian Health Insurance Fund is like this and such. In fact, the situation is exactly the same in all other insurance-based health insurance systems, whether private health insurance or public insurance. There is no health insurance system to compensate for all authorised medicinal products; there is no such thing! There are different reasons for this. There are some systems where one reason is certainly that they operate under limited resource conditions and, of course, when a certain part of the resource is chosen to be prioritised in one place, that means that it is not possible to divert the same resource anywhere else. Consider practically the example of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. If the total budget of the Health Insurance Fund is around EUR 1.1 billion, the medical benefits are about 130 million, according to my memory. The need for untreated treatment in specialist medical care has been estimated at around EUR 70 million. If we decide that we want to put additional funds into medical benefits, this decision can be made, but of course it has to be done at the expense of something else. And then there is the question of what kind of priority, what kind of cost does the patient population in Estonia get the best result in terms of the system: is it that, for example, a person gets his or her problems solved in such a way, or that another person gets a more expensive and new medicine? Such weighings are carried out by the health insurance fund on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the available methodology. Unfortunately, deciding in one direction means not deciding in the other direction and, of course, as has been said, it is humanly always painful. In other countries, the situation is actually the same. The simple question is that if a country spends about 5% of GDP on health care compared to Estonia, for example, and another country spends 10% of GDP, then, of course, this financial choice is not so acute. If Estonia had a different socially agreed tax policy, it would certainly be possible to spend more on health care and, of course, a different health care service. Another reason why not all medicines are reimbursed is the medical evidence of the medicine. In fact, every year, pharmaceutical companies bring hundreds and hundreds of new medicines to the market, and this has probably never happened, except for generic medicines, so that the new medicine is cheaper than the previous one. In the case of generics, by definition, this is the case, while others are more expensive. If we look at the aggregates, then over the last 25 years, I am speaking here as an introduction to memory, the price of the new cancer medicine has increased on average about ten times, while the patient's health outcome, or survival, measured by this, has increased marginally. So the drugs have become more expensive, a little bit better than that, but the sum of them has become richer at the expense of national systems. It's been the result of the system. Of course, specific people who have received better treatment have received better health and this is, of course, very important. I brought examples simply to understand the context better. It is also true that pharmaceutical companies are very strong partners in negotiations with countries, particularly in small countries. A new step in the development of pharmacology means that medicines are becoming more and more accurate. And when the medicine becomes more accurate, it will certainly have a significantly more effective effect on the individual patient to whom it is indicated, but on the other hand, the number of patients to which it extends will be steadily reduced in the system. In Estonia, there are five, maybe two, cancer patients with this particular diagnosis. They may have one specific medicine costing EUR 10000 or EUR 20000 in the shed. We might be prepared, if there was medical evidence, to include it on the list of preferential medicines if the pharmaceutical company negotiated this price with us, but the pharmaceutical company's interest in such negotiations is close to zero, as the sales volume on this market would be around EUR 50000 per year. This is a concern that needs to be addressed at a much higher level, Europe-wide. European health ministers have been discussing this for a long time and the agricultural market itself has slowly begun to reach this problem. We have reached a situation where even richer, larger countries are no longer able to make certain medicines, which are effective, available to all patients, because the cost is too high. New medicines are indeed placed on the market very quickly, but because they will become effective in three or four years' time, they will not be bought in because they are very expensive and cost-effectiveness has not been proven. We have spoken with representatives of European pharmaceutical companies who have said that, in the long term, they would see a risk-sharing scheme in which, in the first few years after obtaining a marketing authorisation, pharmaceutical companies would give medicines to the state free of charge. The state would be able to make sure that the medicines are effective, after which it will be agreed how this cost will be repaid to the company. But it's a long process, and the interests are, unfortunately, contradictory. The question is often asked, and the question here also asks why the taxpayer does not accept this additional cost. On the contrary, why do pharmaceutical companies charge so high a price for medicines that people are not being treated? The fact that very opaque price agreements are being concluded with pharmaceutical companies in different countries, where as a clause I too have signed them, is not normal to publish to other countries what is being purchased. But that's how the market works now. And I say that often the country, at least our country, is certainly not the strongest party in such negotiations. And now to the questions. Question 1: 'Does the Minister of Health and Labour see the problem in the health funding scheme? When is he going to be actively involved in this? 'I have been actively involved in the issue of the sustainability of healthcare funding all the time I have been in the job of the Minister for Health and Labour. In the first year of 2015, we started a major international analysis that identified various shortcomings in the health insurance system, including its financial sustainability due to the ageing population and the development of medical technology. On the basis of this analysis, in 2016 I proposed that the government expand the income base of health insurance to ensure sustainability and better treatment for Estonian patients. The government at the time did not support these proposals, which is why these things have taken a long time. But it has also been a debate in the current government, and a few weeks ago the government agreed that the state would start allocating additional funds from the state budget to the health insurance fund for non-working old-age pensioners. The income base of the Health Insurance Fund gradually expands to 13% for pensioners who are on average not in employment, 7% for the following year and finally 13% for 2022. At the same time, there is also a broader health reform that consolidates all healthcare costs into the Health Insurance Fund in order to improve synergies and integration of service provision. A total of more than 300 million euros will be allocated from the state budget to the sickness fund for a total period of five years. If we add EUR 300 million to this, as forecast by the Ministry of Finance foresaw, the budget of the Health Insurance Fund will be more than EUR 0.5 billion higher by 2021 compared to this year. We have agreed that the additional funding provided by the Government's special decision will go to improve access to treatment: EUR 37 million in additional funds next year. The second question: why do I think that a situation has developed in which doctors prescribe a medicine, thinking that it will work, but that the sickness fund will not fund it, and is the situation described above justified for me? The inclusion of the medicinal product on the list of preferential medicines starts with the application of the manufacturer to the Ministry of Social Affairs. The application shall describe, inter alia, the expected medical results of the use of the medicinal product and the adverse reactions associated with the treatment and provide a pharmaco-economic analysis of the medicinal product. The application is peer reviewed by both the Agency and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. Following the receipt of opinions, the request shall be discussed in the Committee on Medicinal Products. The Committee on Medicinal Products is a committee of eight members who advises me on the subject, including representatives of the Estonian Medical Association, the Estonian Association of Family Doctors, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the Estonian Association of Patients and the University of Tartu, alongside representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. All nuances relating to the reimbursement of a medicinal product shall be carefully considered within the Commission and a recommendation shall be made to the Minister on the reimbursement of the medicinal product. The Commission shall base its opinion on the following criteria: The criteria have been laid down by the Honourable Legislator in § 43 (2) of the Health Insurance Act. Criterion 1: The need for the insured person to receive a medicinal product due to the provision of health care. Criterion 2: Proven medical efficacy of the medicinal product and the need for the insured person to receive other medicinal products during treatment. Thirdly, the economic justification for the use of the medicinal product. Fourth: existence of alternative medicines or treatments. Fifthly, compliance with sickness insurance funds, including the principle laid down in subsection 25 (3) of this Act. Therefore, the decision to compensate or not to reimburse a medicinal product is preceded by a thorough consideration and an analysis of the clinical evidence and economic justification of the use of the medicinal product. The decision-making process involves organisations representing doctors and patients alongside public officials, which makes the process even more transparent and more inclusive for stakeholders. The doctor has the right, of course, to prescribe to the patient any medicinal product that has been authorised, but in order for the health insurance system to commit itself, in addition to the functioning of the medicinal product for the individual patient, the efficacy and safety of the medicinal product must be demonstrated for the entire group of patients who need the medicinal product, as well as the reasonable use of the budget of the health insurance fund. Dear Chairman, I have 36 seconds and four questions remain unanswered. What do you want me to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U77	You have to act the way you always do when you ask questions where you really don't get more time. When the delegates start asking questions and it seems that there are questions, the Rules of Procedure law does not limit the time for questions and answers, so that they can also answer all those questions that you have not yet been able to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U78	Thank you. So I'm going to stop and answer after 3 to 7. the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U79	Got it. Questions for the Minister. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U80	Thank you. Mr. Minister! After years of really chronic underfunding of healthcare, the current government has decided, as you also mentioned, to provide additional funding for health care. You said it was even more than 300 million, we knew it was 215 million. I imagine that cancer patients, too, should still be able to make this money into an additional piece. What hope do you give these sick people today? Is there an increase in funding in this area? How can we become better negotiators with pharmaceutical companies so that they can meet us in terms of prices and really develop this area? And now that you're bringing everything down to the Health Insurance Fund, as I understand it, including the ambulance, will there be more money on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U81	There were a lot of questions. First of all, about the amounts. I was talking about a five-year perspective, i.e. by 2022, the reform of health funding has been completed and by this year there will be an additional EUR 300 million. For four years, which is the framework for a country's budgetary strategy, this money really is EUR 215 million, which has been mentioned as an alternative amount. It is true that a number of services will be concentrated in the sickness fund, but they will be concentrated in it together with the available funds, i.e. the costs of other health insurance services will not increase or decrease, i.e. these services will move there along with the available budgetary revenue base. Of course, from a perspective, we can see that if we can monitor more systematically HIV-positive patients, for example, or provide them with other health care services in specialist medical care, family medical care and, at the same time, HIV-medicines in one system, this could lead to greater integration and also higher cost savings. For example, we will not allow HIV-positive patients to fall out of continuous treatment, which should lead us to pay for it later, if they remain in other diseases, through emergency medicine. As far as better negotiations are concerned, I would say that the Ministry of Social Affairs is a very strong negotiator. We have been given a very clear legislative framework on how to negotiate the purchase of medicines, and this will actually enable us to obtain a cheap price also in comparison with other countries. We're doing this job well. The shadow is that since pharmaceutical manufacturers know that we have a clear legislative framework with either reference prices or other nuances, we will not accept the prices they ask us for some medicines. However, since the market is so small for certain medicinal products assigned to a very narrow group, they have no interest in negotiating. That's the problem. Are cancer patients getting additional funding? Of course they can. No doubt they can. The budget for oncology has increased every year in the sense of the Health Insurance Fund, also because one of the dark sides of population ageing is the growth of oncological diseases, i.e. cancer patients come to Estonia. We have actually improved oncological treatment in Estonia considerably in recent years, and we will certainly continue to do so, both in terms of procedures and in terms of adding new medicines to the list. But that's what I'm talking about now, answering all the rest of the questions. Question number three: 'The official position of the Health Insurance Fund is known. This position is disputed by doctors who deal with cancer patients on a daily basis and see that the problem is other than funding. The Foundation's practice and doctors' assessments show that the issue of not supporting cancer patients can be resolved. This requires about 1 MEUR per year. Don't you think this money should be found? ' In 2016, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund paid a total of 73.2 million euros for cancer treatment. This included the costs of both chemotherapy and radiotherapy and surgery. The medicated cost amounted to EUR 39.4 million of this amount, out of a total of 73 million. If we now look at all the medicines, including the new cancer medicines, which are either on the market with a marketing authorisation or where pharmaceutical companies have applied for the inclusion of these medicines on the list of preferential medicines, and we count the amount that would be added to health insurance if we took one or the other of these medicines into the health insurance budget, then we estimate that this amount would be significantly higher than EUR 1 million. Before answering the question, I spoke to Mr Streetmouth about the same one million issues. We talked about the fact that, according to our analysis and information, there is not much to be done with one million euros a year. We discussed whether, in cases where many patients who could be covered by one or the other medicine do not go to the fund, there is sometimes a strong enough doctor filter or there are other reasons. We agreed with him to look at these tests so that we would have the same information as to how much it would cost to add one or the other medicine to the list of preferential medicines. Our current assessment is that it would be considerably more expensive than that claimed for medicines that have been examined by the Committee on Medicinal Products, where estimates have been made. As has been said, it is regrettable that only half of the nature of the problem dominates this discussion in Estonia, i.e. why the state does not have enough money. The other side is still the question of producers and the question of the legitimate profits of pharmacology. In fact, the situation is often a beautiful grotesque. Of course, pharmacological studies in themselves and the development of new medicines are expensive - the smaller the patient population it is targeted, the more expensive it becomes. But we have also seen clearly situations of excessive profits. We have seen how a highly effective drug cost $5,000 in the employee's price list, but when a larger group bought up a marketing authorisation for the same medicine, it started to cost $50,000. So I'm saying that the real problem, or much of the real problem, is on the other side. The question is whether or not we can influence it. That's what I was talking about in my introduction. You could even say ♪ and it has been studied ♪ ♪ that since medicines of this type are very important to people, they are linked to the last hope of life, the hope of getting the best possible treatment, they are willing to test anything to extend their life span. Of course, these are emotionally very difficult situations and are also referred to by me as some correlations in this respect: it is not excluded that, knowing this emotion, pharmaceutical companies have set such cynical prices for medicines that they have not set for some other medicines. In the context of new anticancer medicines, there are two main types of questions before one or the other is taken on the list of preferential medicines. Firstly, their effects have often been poorly demonstrated as they are new medicines and the time of clinical trials has been insufficient. The second question is that their cost and effect are not in an acceptable correlation. Now there is a very real question that we have alternative medicines for a very large number of diagnoses, which have almost the same effect on health outcomes, but one drug is three times more expensive than the other. In such cases, of course, all diagnoses will be evaluated. And if medicines with the same effect, proven to have the same effect, are indeed at very different prices, then decisions will certainly be taken accordingly. It is clear that it is not possible to pay a questionable price for the Estonian taxpayer. If we paid the counter price for the medicines we have on the list of preferential medicines, the whole budget of the Health Insurance Fund would go to the medicines. There is no doubt about it, absolutely no doubt about it! Therefore, a positive financing decision is always born by agreement between the State and the producer. What I want to say here is that, of course, these negotiations take place in a particular format, which has been agreed and which I talked about, on the one hand, is substantive, medical evidence-based, on the other hand, a health economic view to it. But every year in Estonia, new medicinal products come on the market, with a size of 50, 60, 70 new medicinal products each year. Medicinal products with completely new active ingredients will also be placed on the market for about 15 pieces. Now that these decrees have been signed for two years, I know that they are important new medicines and that much of the extra cost of new medicines to the budget could be half a million or a half a million. They come to our market, but they come to our market at a slower pace than in other countries. There is a two-way question here: firstly, the question of the existence of evidence-based material, and the second question is that, given the limitations of our health insurance, we naturally expect a significantly higher evidence-based health result before we are ready to include them on the list of preferential medicines. But these medications come, they come every year. Question 4: 'Some patients can very much wait for a decision on their treatment and the matter is urgent, but according to the law, the Health Insurance Board can deal with the case for up to a year. Do you not feel that such a period of proceedings is too long in this situation? ' The health care services, procedures, medicines, etc. reimbursed by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund have been consolidated into the list of health care services, together with the prices and conditions for paying for them, which are the basis for taking over the obligation to pay for the health care service to the insured person by the Health Insurance Fund. The list is updated once a year, as required, on the basis of § 31 of the Health Insurance Act. The process is described in the Government of the Republic Regulation No 301 of 24 September 2002 on the criteria for amending the list of Estonian Health Insurance Fund's health services and the conditions and procedures for their assessment, and in Regulation No 9 of the Minister of Social Affairs of 2007 on the procedure for taking over the obligation to pay a fee from an insured person by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and the methodology for calculating the remuneration paid to health service providers. Medical professionals, the Estonian Hospital Association and also the Health Insurance Fund can make proposals to change the list of health services. The inclusion of new services will be preceded by an evaluation by experts and will assess four criteria. Criterion 1: Effects on the patient's health, i.e. medical evidence basis. This means that the new service must have a greater positive impact on the patient's health than the existing service demonstrated by the studies. The assessment is provided by an expert recommended by the Faculty of Medicine or the Medicines Agency of the University of Tartu. The second criterion is cost-effectiveness. This is mostly assessed by health economists at the Health Insurance Fund, with the aim of determining the health benefits of using the new service and the cost necessary to achieve it, compared to the available alternative. Thirdly, the impact on the financial possibilities of health insurance, which are assessed by the health insurance fund's health economists. Fourthly, the impact on society and consistency with the state health policy, which is assessed by the Ministry of Social Affairs. Consideration will be given to the need for services for society, such as assessing compliance with development plans, the availability of the infrastructure needed to provide the service and the training of staff, and identifying health policy priorities. In the cases set out in the Government of the Republic Regulation, the proposals are also dealt with exceptionally if the proposal arises from a legal act, the name of the listed health care service is adjusted linguistically, or the amendment of the method of calculation of the remuneration paid to health care providers established by the Minister of Social Affairs pursuant to § 32 of the Health Insurance Act requires substantial changes to the list. The short answer is that, since healthcare is being updated as a whole, where, on the one hand, medicines and, on the other hand, adding procedures, adding new procedures, reviewing the prices of existing professions, whether all prices are correct, as a result of this process, we will eventually reach a full view, which will be confirmed once a year. This is also the way in which the Health Insurance Fund calculates that everyone complies with the Health Insurance Act. Question 5: 'An even more bizarre fact is that there are cases where a person was treated with one drug that did not work, but then the payment of another medicine is abandoned, although it may have a positive effect. I am thinking of melanoma medicines, which started to be compensated only for the elected since 1 January. Doctors argue that there are no reasonable reasons to support such an approach. Do you see how this problem can be solved? ' Medicines work differently in different cancer patients. In particular, the Health Insurance Fund has started to compensate patients for these melanoma medicines, for whom the recommendation of this medicine is based on current guidelines, such as the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (USA, 2017), with the indication 'Recommendation based on high-level evidence'. For the remaining patients, the recommendation is based on a lower level of evidence. Therefore, there are currently no clinical studies showing that the medicine works as well in previously treated patients. If the pharmaceutical manufacturer submits new evidence in the future, the conditions for compensation will continue to be negotiated and amended. It is also a common practice and it does not only concern cancer medicines as soon as we need additional information, we can also change the conditions of compensation. This can usually be done either by the manufacturer of the medicinal product or by professionals who make our proposals and recommendations. These changes have been and will continue to be made in the past. Question 6: 'Probably, the Health Insurance Fund has not even attempted to find any flexible way of making cancer medicines more accessible, even though there are solutions available. For example, the Cancer Treatment Fund could be a partner of the Health Insurance Fund in different risk-sharing schemes. [---] Does the Minister see the possibility of at least starting a collaboration with the Cancer Treatment Fund "Given Life"? " First of all, this argument is not true. The Health Insurance Fund has made the practice of buying medicines considerably more flexible in recent years. For example, risk- and cost-sharing schemes where the Health Insurance Fund pays only for the treatment of patients for whom the medicine works or reimbursements in order to reduce the risk of overspending in the pharmaceutical budget. Such agreements have been concluded and will continue to be concluded. Perhaps the most marked and known example is the same hepatitis C medicine, whose budget went significantly beyond what was forecast last summer. After that, we agreed with the pharmaceutical company precisely on a risk-sharing scheme where the obligations of the Health Insurance Fund will decrease from a certain amount. This agreement is also confidential, just like everyone else, but these things are being implemented. In combination with high market power, the health insurance fund is quite effective in buying medicines. As I have said, the prices of medicines often fall more than twice from what was originally asked, which will enable Estonia to achieve affordable price levels, as well as more sick people to be treated. This is certainly the reason for the huge difference with the Cancer Treatment Fund. The Health Insurance Fund has to deal with a large number of drug price agreements in different areas at the same time and we do not deal with individual patients either. It is not true that there is no cooperation with the charitable fund. Cooperation is quite there and cooperation is very good. I am very grateful to the Foundation for the work they do. This type of model works in most countries. In those cases where the effectiveness of new innovative medicines has not yet been sufficiently demonstrated or their prices to the national system are so expensive that they cannot be taken on board, charitable funds also help a person to take advantage of this last straw in individual cases, the effects of which may also be medically unproven, but which is in any case important to a person. This is a very grateful job and, of course, we are grateful for it. We certainly consider the Cancer Treatment Fund to be a good partner. Maris Jesse, Deputy Secretary-General of the Health Area of the Ministry of Social Affairs, has been a member of the Board of the Foundation for a long time, knows the subject and appreciates the work of the Foundation very much, just as I do. I think the questions are over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U82	Minister, before the first question comes to the floor, I have a question for you. I hear your voice is at sunset. Would you like a little break from the voice?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U83	No, the Minister of Health isn't fit to get sick. I'm just a little cold, but I can handle it. Thank you very much for your concern.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U84	Thank you. Viktoria Ladynskaja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U85	Thank you! Since I have a lot of contact with doctors in this area, I can say that in many aspects of what you have been talking about here today, they are arguing against you, especially in point five. I'm listening to you, and I'm kind of sad, to be honest, and not just a little bit, because it's like nothing's depending on you. It depends on money, producers, demography, but what really depends on you? In this regard, the sixth question, or the cooperation between the Health Insurance Fund and the Gift of Life, was particularly important. The first proposal for the fund is very simple: those who have received funding from the fund and who have been helped by the necessary medicine prescribed by the doctor go back to the health insurance fund. That would make perfect sense. If there is evidence that the medicine is working, what will prevent these patients from taking the medicine?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U86	Thank you. With Mr Streetmouth, we also discussed this issue, waiting to be dealt with here in the Riigikogu. There are two problems. The first problem is the lack of price fixing, which is much more difficult for the State to achieve than for the Fund. It is no secret that pharmaceutical companies are more likely to distribute their medicines to charitable organizations than to national systems in which they want to serve. Although Mr Street Suu may say that it is not easy for them to negotiate either. That's the first reason. Another reason is the issue of patients' equality. The national health insurance system can only rely on clear legal principles to promote medicines. And the clear principle of law has been applied in the criteria that I was talking about. If, in principle, some patients are positively indicated or recommended for a certain drug, then the Health Insurance Fund cannot say that the first year we will not pay him, let someone else pay for it, but if he is still alive, we will pay for it. This is not in accordance with the Constitution, but the idea itself is good.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U87	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U88	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I hope you heal quickly and don't catch cold! Cancer is undoubtedly one of the most problematic in society. If we also look at statistics, cancer has grown four to five times over a hundred years, and it continues to grow. This is undoubtedly a fact, and all societies and countries must deal with how to prevent the disease as much as possible and also to ensure treatment. At the same time, our social system is built on the principle of solidarity, where we all pay equally the percentage of the sickness fund system. The fact is that most of us will never take advantage of this money, but according to the principle of solidarity, others who need it will receive help, even if it is more expensive than their own contribution. And they're not all taxpayers. Most cancer patients, however, have been taxpayers. At the same time, we see that, at the moment, this system is no longer sustainable; we do not have any money in the system. What are your suggestions or visions on how to reform this system so that cancer patients should not receive medical funding through collections and donation events, where I myself was on Saturday?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U89	Thank you. First of all, I must correct your claims, honourable Member of the Riigikogu Madison! You're still a young and healthy man like me, but when we look at statistics, generally in the last six months of our lives, we take advantage of all the taxes that we have paid for the health insurance system, and there will be a shortage. That's the situation. Philosophic discussions about the cost structure of patients due to age and what this means for healthcare systems around the world have certainly started to come more. The last one was in The Economist a few weeks ago. If you have any interest, it was quite an interesting approach to how health insurance systems have changed and how medical technology has become very capable of extending people's lives. Not always by guaranteeing the quality of life, but we've been successful in extending our lives. This is very good, but on the other hand, these costs have been very high. So these problems are, in fact, faced by all health insurance systems in the world, not only by national systems and not only by solidarity, but precisely by all systems. The population is ageing and medical technology is developing fast enough to offer new opportunities, but these opportunities are also extremely expensive and will eventually be over-eating the system. In the short term, we will not be in danger, but in the long term, this question will certainly arise. As far as oncological patients are concerned, the number of patients has indeed increased steadily in recent decades. There are various reasons for this. There are certainly issues of lifestyle or living environment that play a role here, but the main thing is aging. If people live long enough, they get sick of a lot of diseases that couldn't survive in the 19th century when people died at 40. This is not only about cancer, but also about a number of mental health diseases, and, of course, therefore, in all ageing societies, in European countries cancer treatment itself is certainly on the rise as a cost. What are the solutions? Firstly, there is no comprehensive solution anywhere in the world. These systems are trying to adapt to opportunities as quickly and as well as possible, but I would argue that there is no long-term solution anywhere at the moment. What are the directions that help? In Estonia, the integration of the social system and the health care system will certainly be increased. With age, the number of chronic patients is increasing, and a very large part of health care services could be effectively prevented if we were to guarantee people proper social services or social services together with cheaper healthcare. This is certainly important, and that is what we are working for. On the basis of Viljandi Hospital, for example, we have a pilot project on the local health model, where we look at various integration options, including funding. That's the first thing. The second thing, specifically concerning medicinal products, is that, as has already been said, on this issue we need either a global solution, but at least a pan-European one. A pan-European solution, the same risk-sharing scheme, is needed in a situation where patient groups become significantly lower due to precision pharmacology and the cost of developing medicines is significantly higher. Quite a number of pharmaceutical companies have already realised that. They need to be interested in this, because otherwise they will be limited and blocked, these medicines will not simply be included in the list of preferential medicines. The third, which is very important, is pharmacogenetics. This is certainly one promising area. In fact, we can target drugs much more accurately if we can assess which medicines work better for one person or another based on a genetic risk. And, of course, not just pharmacogenetics, but more generally genetics and health care. This is what we are developing in Estonia. There's a pilot project we call personal medicine. This pilot project is about to begin in two diagnostic teams. If I am not mistaken now, I think it should be breast cancer and coronary heart disease, where we are really trying to bring together the genetic data of our gene donors today with their medical records and by assessing the risk of one or the other disease, helping people prevent these diseases and, on the other hand, providing more personalised treatment. What we call personal medicine, in English, is this Precision medicine, is definitely the direction that is developing. It gives, on the one hand, a more accurate health result and, on the other hand, it also gives the system more effectiveness so that we do not spill medicines for high blood pressure, for example, for all people who have high blood pressure, if we know that these medicines do not work at all for patients with a certain genetic predisposition, there is no point in taking them at all. Such knowledge is now moving and is developing. And then definitely e-health solutions as a whole. For example, telemedicine in Estonian, telemedicine in English, or the same possibility to ensure that people are monitored much more and more effectively, taking advantage of all the health information that we create and produce every day. Whether it's our smartphone or other devices that actually solve these things. It's all a long story, of course, but these are the directions we're going to move on. In any case, however, it is important to note that innovation in medicine is extremely fast. I therefore argue that, in such a very long view, 50 years of view, there is no health system that now knows how to fund what medical sciences have created by then.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U90	Einar Vallbaum, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U91	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Today we have been talking for a very long time about the future and the present, why we cannot do anything and why we have done something. But we all know that sometimes there's better support for a good word. That is why I am asking what would be your direct message to the Cancer Fund and to those who are currently waiting for treatment, a good and short message.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U92	I don't know if you were here when I started answering. If you ask me as a person, of course all authorised medicines that have been shown to have any positive effects on patients should be available to them free of charge. That would be my answer as a human. If we look at the need for a system capable of providing maximum and good healthcare to 1.2 million patients, we need to make choices. These choices are difficult on an individual basis. If you think it is easy for me to say in such specific cases that, unfortunately, the Estonian health system does not have the means to carry out one procedure or another, or to provide a preferential medicine, or that we do not yet have the absolute certainty of whether the medicine is effective on an evidence-based basis, but because we do not have the final proof of it, we do not buy it in, then it is not easy to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U93	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have two questions. The first question concerns procurement. You pointed out in your answers that Estonia is in a weaker position and many multinational corporations are not interested in entering our market because of the small size of the Estonian market. Specific question: how many drug purchases have been made across borders and are any of them related to cancer medicines? Are these planned to be done in the near future, have any processes been initiated? Question two. Within three years, the Cancer Treatment Fund Gifted Life has compensated for 1.6 million euros of cancer treatment, which means that all those who have applied have received the treatment. In 2017, the Health Insurance Fund has a budget of €131 million. Does it not seem to you that we can still find these EUR 1.6 million and make this treatment available to all those in need?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U95	Thank you. Firstly, as you yourself said, the fund has been able to provide treatment for all patients who have needed it. Secondly, is it possible to take the same medicines on the list of preferential medicines? Yes, most of them are likely to be on the list of preferential medicines. Each year, as has been said, about 50 new medicines, including about 15 new active substances, are to be included in the list of preferential medicines. Let's get the same melanoma medicine we were talking about. This procedure started in my time and the pharmaceutical companies were under very aggressive pressure, but eventually the Committee on Medicinal Products decided correctly and this medicine was allowed for certain patients. The question now was why there is no right to prescribe this medicine to all patients. As I said, it was not a political decision. It is a medical evidence-based decision according to the methodology we have, and we have not written this methodology ourselves on the knee end, but have observed how things are done in other countries. Once again, the human approach versus the system view on this issue is two very different things and, of course, I would like to represent the human view personally. But these objective limitations must also be understood. As regards cross-border procurement, Estonia has, together with Latvia, tendered a cross-border supply of rotavirus vaccine. It was a very successful procurement. From memory, we managed to get the price down to about 20%. Yeah, we'd like to do more in the future. There have been very few of them in Europe at large. In principle, the framework has been established for this purpose. According to my memory, Benelux and Austria have made a purchase. We have also looked at this experience and see that it could certainly be one way forward in the future. Look at the strange countries, Benelux and Austria! The problem is that countries do not always have the same interests, some countries may have reached a very good agreement with some manufacturers or some medicines. And if we want to do a joint procurement, it is said that if you do a joint procurement, the previous good agreement will no longer apply to this medicinal product or another medicinal product from the same manufacturer. In short, it's a pretty wild world. It seems that treating people is of common interest, everyone could be interested in having patients get the best treatment, but there is a very large and decisive component of the money. And now for that 1.6 million. As I said at the beginning, we agreed with Mr Streetmouth that in the Ministry of Social Affairs we would specify the budgetary cost of taking up the list of medicines provided by the Cancer Treatment Fund, medicines reimbursed by the Health Insurance Fund. We estimate it to be about ten times bigger.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U96	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U97	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. About two years ago, at the beginning of your term of office, there was talk about cleaning up the hospital network, optimising and sober analysis, where we need hospitals and where it would make more sense to connect hospitals. Where are we going with this, and how much financial savings will it be? I would like to illustrate the example that in Võru, a walking person with two sticks came to me and said that the order of his hip joint surgery was 1.5 years. What do you want me to say to him?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U98	You had two questions together, but I'll answer them both. First of all, I have not said that the Estonian hospital network should somehow be pulled together forcefully. I think that the hospital network is one of the few public service providers where the network has been reformed some 15 years ago. We have one hospital in each county centre, two central hospitals in Tallinn and a children's hospital in Ida-Virumaa, in addition to the county centre central hospital in Narva, Estonia's third largest city. I think this hospital network is actually optimal, and I certainly don't support the closure of any county hospital. It has been said that in certain hospitals some specializations either go down or are concentrated in larger centres. This is inevitable and also medically justified, but the possibility of receiving such basic doctors must certainly be available in the county centres. In the case of other specialties, I consider it essential that, if the North Estonia Regional Hospital and the University of Tartu Hospital take over the county hospitals in the context of networking, as Võrus South-Estonian Hospital and are planning to do with Valga and Põlva Hospital and Rapla and Läänemaa Hospital, these major hospitals, i.e. clinic and PERH, should also ensure that the patient is transported from the county centre to this hospital so that people can go to their doctor's reception comfortably. And that's what we're working on. As far as prostheses are concerned, the average order is roughly as I say in memory again, these numbers are not in hand for a little less than a year, maybe even nine months. A large part of this order is a selective order, i.e. it has been the patient's choice. Most people want to get joint prosthetics in the summer so that the recovery period falls to summer and they do not have to work at that time, for example. But the truth is, the order is still long, and not just for prosthetics, the lack of which is detrimental to the quality of life, but not life-threatening. We also have long queues in those disciplines where the delay is actually life-threatening, and that is obviously not normal. That is why this year we have allocated an additional EUR 10 million to specialist medical care such as neurology and cardiology and inpatient scheduled care. In the first few months, there have been hundreds of additional operations in two hospitals, clinics and North Estonia Regional Hospitals, such as pacemakers, etc., compared to last year. But these are, of course, only two specialties. In the case of additional funds that will be available in the coming years, 37 million in the next year and, finally, 200 million in the next year, the priority direction will certainly be to shorten treatment queues.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U99	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U100	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I'm going to brief you on a case from a few years ago. The patient was offered a specific cancer treatment procedure in Northern Estonia Regional Hospital in Tallinn, quite expensive, but it was said that he would receive it for his own money. After a while, the patient heard that the same procedure was paid by the Health Insurance Fund at the University of Tartu Hospital. When he came back to PERH with that story, the procedure began for the money of the health insurance fund. Is such a thing customary, or was it rather an exception, some kind of misunderstanding? Or could it be that one hospital pays the sickness fund for the same procedure and the other one doesn't?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U101	No, it can't and mustn't be like this. If such things occur, please contact the health care provider yourself or, if there is no such trust, either the Health Insurance Fund or the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U102	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your response to Mrs Ladynskaya's question, there was one point of view that has already been repeated on these issues. You said that Estonia, with its small market and few specific treatment cases, makes us an unequal partner in negotiations with producers. You also said directly that the pharmaceutical industry is a big business and you even called it cynical. The art of winning is taught for commercial negotiations; it can be learned. Maybe we need to channel better negotiators with manufacturers on the line.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U104	Thank you. First of all, I didn't say we were bad, I didn't say that. I said we're very good. But the inequality is that they are basically entitled to say that our market is so small that their commercial interest is small enough. They can say they won't give up the price, and if we don't accept it, they just won't come to our market with their medicine, that's all. This is something that pharmaceutical companies, for example, in their negotiations with Germany, certainly cannot say, '80 million patients are there, so there are other amounts and a completely different interest. It's ours, I don't know if it's tragic, but the real objective situation is that when the medicines become more accurate, there are so few specific patients that the negotiations are just less interested in companies. This is quite surprising because pharmaceutical manufacturers have, for example, an obligation to ensure that one or the other medicinal product is available on the market. If the Health Insurance Fund compensates for this, we have a price agreement, they're gonna have to make sure there's a bunch of drugs on the market. If they don't comply with that agreement, we can make a fine. The amount of the fine is.. I will say again, according to memory, about EUR 3000. When I became a minister, I said that what you are joking about, big pharmaceutical companies with millions of profits, will not bring any medicine to the market because they have supply difficulties, and we will then fine EUR 3000. That's ridiculous! It'd still take that kind of cost, instead of starting a separate operation there. The specialists analyzed and weighed, and we may have been able to raise this fine a little bit higher, but they said there was no more, because then they leave the market, they just don't have any interest in it. So in that sense, we're in a difficult situation. Personally, I believe that a European solution is needed here. However, this Europe-wide solution will not come in the near future, including because it is debatable, within the meaning of the European Union's Treaties, whether the European Union has the competence to harmonise this framework. So the maximum we're going towards is what Monika Haukanõm was talking about, that is to say, joint procurement, where we can get the price down. I hope that they will become more widely used. I'm sure we're very interested in this ourselves. The negotiations do not have too much to do with persuasion in this area. What gives a small country like us a good result is a well-agreed and legitimate methodology. The pharmaceutical companies know that if they don't come down to a certain price level, the law just doesn't allow us to list these drugs. This is actually what motivates them to offer us a better price in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U105	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The pharmaceutical companies are, of course, very interested in getting their new medicines on the list. I know that in Germany, every doctor is obliged to get permission from the chief doctor that he is going to a pharmaceutical company training day or further education. Not to mention that he's signing, that he's not taking a pen from there, and those pens are not even shared there anymore. To what extent are we regulated by such pharmaceutical companies to offer some kind of pleasure or some sort of memento?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U107	I may have answered that question once even in this hall. I don't know how to reconstruct everything in my head now, but it's regulated by the drug law. I can't remember from the head, I'm sorry that I don't remember their content, and I don't have the information technology tools available to look it up. But the website of the Agency contains a separate list of basically all the trainings and other activities that healthcare professionals undergo. It must be registered and have a full view. The question is, should this order be tightened? This debate has occasionally been due to the fact that, although we have regularised active substance-based recipes, i.e. the doctor has to issue an active substance-based prescription, in about 10% of cases, a brand-based recipe is still issued, mostly for no reason. The question is that it would, in principle, make savings for the health system. But I don't dare say it's because doctors have been training there. These trainings are probably important and necessary in themselves. It cannot simply be said that this should not be done, but transparency is certainly a key word here. As has been said, the Agency has this overview in principle. What I consider to be very important is that there would be much more transparency among health care providers in Estonia, i.e. in hospital matters of this type. I hope that this will also be achieved in the coming years. We have a case in progress, as we know, which does not concern the medical staff, but concerns the hospital's administration in so far as it is permitted and not allowed. I think that this debate has increased significantly within the health system.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U108	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U109	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Many people resented the fact that several ministers, including the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, were collecting it from the people instead of securing the necessary medical money. Did you take part in Saturday's footsteps and answer the embarrassing questions asked by the people themselves as to why they would come to collect donations from the people in matters of life and death?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U110	Thank you. Unfortunately, I couldn't participate this time. But I have also personally supported the Cancer Treatment Fund and, as has already been said, I very much appreciate this initiative. I think that if anyone wants to support this fund, including volunteering, in order to extend its cover in political terms, it is not justified to resent it. Of course, people may feel a little weird that you can see why the Minister of Finance is asking for money for medicines, but the complicated things are complicated. I've been trying to explain this complexity here for a few hours today.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U111	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U112	Good minister! Of my previous life, I remember and can only confirm it - unfortunately, I have seen it more closely through students if I wanted medical-industrial business to be raw and much more powerful than a military-industrial complex. Both Clintons, Ira Magaziner and others can talk about the power of the medical-industrial complex. With a medical-industrial complex, governments rise and fall. I agree with you a hundred percent. Unfortunately, people have misconceptions that the medical-industrial complex has something to do with humanism. Of course not, at least not in the United States. To be honest, I was asked to ask. If I ask you a little bad, I'll ask you a benevolent answer. Do you think it is necessary for the Foundation Gifted Life to hand over its funds to the Health Insurance Fund or not? What's your position? If my question has been formulated wrong, I hope you will be willing to understand its contents. I was asked to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U113	The answer is no. I would like to reiterate that the health insurance budget has its own methodology for taking over liabilities. I'm not a medical specialist, and I'm not arguing with specialists. Nor do we argue with the methodology that has been developed. This can be criticised in two respects. First of all, why does money value people's lives, simply by expressing themselves? Yes, it is. Is that human? No, of course not. That is the same thing that someone has already asked me about, I do not remember how this question was formulated precisely. As a human being, of course, I want all the sick to get the best possible treatment as soon as possible if there is one. Once again, health insurance systems in no country will compensate for all existing medicines. The principles under which selection is made are broadly the same. The criteria are slightly different due to wealth and also due to some other circumstances that are considered to be a respected source, etc. In many countries, in the case of individual tragic cases where people may be caught between the cold gears of the system, which is very tragic, a charitable organization really comes to the aid. Once again, I do not think it is right to oppose the activities of the national medical system and the charity fund, specifically the 'Gived Life'. That's not right! We complement each other. Do I want all Estonian patients to have better medicines available as the fund wants? Yes, I do, of course I do!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U114	Please, Tiina Kangro!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U115	Thank you. A slightly broader question to conclude on this subject. You have correctly described that the money problem will last in the medical system, and it does not only concern cancer patients. You have recently managed to cope with an act of violence and trade a large amount of money from the state budget to the medical system. However, this is not the solution either. As the medical team said on this news, it's great, now there's peace in the house until the end of next year. They'll probably come back with new paychecks, and it'll all go on. I would now like a brief answer to this question. It has not been heard that, with or in connection with giving money, you would also plan fundamental changes in the medical system, the sickness fund system. Don't you think there's leaks in the health insurance system and places where you can find more resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U116	Do you mean inefficient spending? We will also talk about this in response to the next question. There has certainly been inefficient or even illegal action in the area of health care, no doubt. Is it possible to do better? It's always possible to do better. In general, it has to be said that the Estonian health care system has been exceptionally effective in global comparison, which means that it has provided a good level of service with very little money. There's been a price. Of course, it has had its price and part of the issue that we have been discussing here over several hours. Yes, with additional money, a broader reform of healthcare funding is planned, as has been said, also consolidation and greater integration of services. We intend to enhance integration between social services and health services, which requires a fundamental change in the financing model compared to today. We are also planning to change the governance structure of the Health Insurance Fund. These drafts are being developed in the Ministry of Social Affairs with great momentum and pressure, and I hope you will be able to see them right in front of you at the beginning of the autumn session. So we are going through serious work this summer, and then in September we will be able to discuss these issues further and adopt the necessary amendments by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U117	Minister, thank you. No further questions. It is good to note that your voice material has endured with courage and is sustainable. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of Viktoria Ladynskaja Isamaa and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U118	I thank the Minister for his answers. In my speech, I will address three important aspects. But before I do, however, because a lot of arguments are being sent against the balcony, that in three years the fund has financed a total of 1.6 million treatments and that practically everyone has received the aid. There is no reason to believe that any patient has failed to apply. That doesn't make any sense. How, then, can it be that a significantly higher amount than EUR 1 million per year is needed to solve this problem? Toivo Tänavsuu, who is the founder of the Gift of Life Foundation, also asks that he did not understand the talk of cooperation. What does this cooperation mean for you if you do not see, for example, the possibility of taking the person who gets the medicine needed and seeing that it really affects his health, back under the health insurance fund? Now these three important aspects. We are a little bit like rusks in this Parliament, like words that are estranged from life, written on paper. We often deal with rhetoric in this Chamber, what to say and how to say to each other, and why no things can be done. There is no need to look for anything other than the desire to find a solution to the problem, from what I have put forward. The problem is very clear. We have quite a large number of people who are denied access to the drug. In this question, I really touch cancer patients, and I repeat: it is difficult to describe the emotions that people are experiencing. It is very difficult both psychologically and physically. But even greater is the disappointment that arises at the last moment. People get the impression that the country is saying to their faces, "What if you've been my taxpayer? You have a complicated disease, and your disease is your own problem now. ' Of course, it is nice to have such a fund, and it can be said that they collect donations and buy these medicines instead of the health insurance fund. Great! The Fund has supported about a hundred people. That is the number of those who have 'taste' this country's disappointment at the most important moment. And now I mention another figure: in order to help these 100 people, the fund has had to collect, as has been said, EUR 1.6 million. Mr Ossinovski, as Minister, you know perfectly well that EUR 5 000 per month is a very large sum for one person. EUR 1.6 million for the state budget is not a very high amount. At the same time, there are a hundred people at stake who know or could not at this moment know that the state cares about them until the last moment. The fund, of course, has to be thanked. At the same time, people who collect donations for the fund in stores say that the main question for donors is whether the health insurance fund really does not give money, why people have to pay for an official medication. Even more bizarre is the fact that there are cases where a person was treated with one drug that did not work, and then he is given up paying off another medicine, even though it could have a positive effect. The doctors I've been communicating with are in favour of this theory that there really is no other option here than to fund this other way. And now, as I understand it, the issue of money and philosophy remains a problem. And philosophy is simple: there are a number of diseases in which today's medicine considers the case hopeless. At the same time, our doctors here claim that with a diagnosis such as cancer, a person can live for years. Even the fourth - stage sufferer can live and some also live a quality life without constant pain, working to contribute to raising their children and grandchildren. This is about the doctor's ability to use the available resources to prolong a person's life, and to avoid a situation where the family learns at the most difficult moment that the country has turned their backs on them. And finally. I was talking about alienating politicians as a fundamental problem, but I will end up breaking the so-called rules. Can I have some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U119	Yeah, please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U120	I think the tradition or the invisible rule of not asking questions to your coalition partner is debatable. I think that, if the Minister is competent and the problem is troubling him too, I believe that the Minister is extremely happy to share his answers and information with, and through, the people. The subject that we are discussing today is precisely where the public long awaits answers. Otherwise, it is really embarrassing that these same delegates go begging for money out of the people's pockets and offer no solution to the situation. Now this fund has received answers from the Minister for Industry and is analysing them. I hope that the Minister will also have a clearer understanding of this problem as a result of the issue being raised. The greater aim of today's inquiry was to obtain an opinion from the Minister and to enhance the good cooperation between the Foundation and the Ministry. And, of course, we hope that next time the debate on this issue will take place in this Chamber, on the initiative of the Minister, that the Minister will come and provide information and workable solutions, with goodwill and sincere concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U121	Igor Gräzin, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U122	Mr. Vice-Chairman! Minister, thank you very much. Apparently, it's fate. I have to tell my students what I'm going to tell tomorrow at 14:00 in eight minutes, and do it 14 times. The course is called 'Justice and Ethics' and it is precisely the same problem that the Minister responded to. Look what this is about. There are two principles in medicine that rule out each other. The first principle of medicine is humanism. All people deserve to live. A billionaire and a bum are equal as humans. This is a fully-fledged socialist and communist idea that all people have equal rights. And there is another principle, it is a liberal or liberal democratic principle that says: no money, no pants. That's it. If you don't have the money, you don't get the service. Put two patients next to each other. We have a 90+ millionaire older lady coming to a chiropractor to treat her back because golfing is no longer that. In fact, he's paid wild money for medical insurance. And we have a 23-24-year-old steelman, a young boy whose treatment is a matter of life and death, because when his back is over, he won't get any more bread. By the way, his contribution to society is close to zero. So, what do we do with this thing anyway? Now that seems to us... Well, Viki also kind of apologized that we're politicians and we don't seem to understand and are we humane enough. This thing is actually a lot easier. You have three boys who need a kidney transplant, but you have a kidney. Decision. The surgeon makes that decision, or the surgeons' brigade, or anyone who makes that decision, and that decision is equal to God's decision. And it doesn't matter at all what the government is. Today the minister is a social democrat, tomorrow is a liberal, the day after tomorrow there's someone else, someone else. All right, fascists, nationalists, be humanists, antihumanists, sadists, the problem is the same: a) people's lives are equal, b) equal opportunities in society are not divided. This problem will never be solved! I said the medical-industrial complex... Ask Hillary how it went with Obamacare. How did it happen, Hillary, that you fell in two weeks? Just because the medical-industrial complex realized that stop, here's another situation and other games. And it's not a joke! When we talk about the negotiating power, Estonia's, what can Estonia give to a pharmaceutical company, so actually thinking? The monetary turnover of the Estonian state is about 70% of General Electric's turnover. The Estonian state's turnover is in the order of magnitude equal to that of the New York Fire Department. Well, let's start negotiating. Who? Are there proposals to increase the creative negotiating capacity or do they not exist? You know, I think I've convinced my behavior and life that in all my troubles, I love a man, I'm a humanist, and so on. But the one thing that can upset me is when humanism turns into snot. I mean, instead of actually helping people, we go into the corner and complain. We have the tools. What does Estonia have? I come back to give this question to the pharmaceutical company? One very important thing: the pharmaceutical company, showing the list of countries where its medicine has been aprobated, can add to it the Republic of Estonia, which is as important as the islands of Vanuatu or the United States. And that's the subject of negotiations, why not? I don't have much more to say. Like I said, I'll tell the students for hours and tomorrow at 2:00 again. You see, the contradiction that we talked about and the Minister was referring to is objective. He is not our cause, nor can we solve him; he will remain forever. Our task is to resolve this contradiction every day, every day next to the day, knowing that he does not have a solution. Just because the problem doesn't have a solution doesn't justify us not dealing with it. We have to ask every day, and if not every day, once a month, every three months, whether we are doing the best we can. And if each of us in 101, plus the minister, plus all of us, can say that we've done our best for the life of a human being, then nothing more can be demanded of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U123	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I would like to conclude today's debate on two sub-topics. Firstly, we focused on cancer treatment for nearly two hours, as it was specifically raised on the basis of unfortunate examples of cancer patients who require a human life. As has been said here today and the media have also been through, there has been a large collection last Saturday to help people who have been refused relief or rescue for various reasons. Politicians from all political parties and many good people first donated their time and, of course, a large amount of money. And that is for the purpose of fulfilling this task, which is the task of the state. When you think about it, it actually gets a little sad. We're campaigning, we're collecting money together, but it feels like neither we here nor the government can make certain decisions. The Cancer Treatment Fund has financed EUR 1.6 million in cancer treatment over three years, with aid for all those who have applied. That's 0.5 million a year. The Minister told us today that they have estimated the need for money to be ten times greater. This raises the question whether the people who need this treatment have failed to apply, whether it will come out of somewhere. But that's it. The topic we are talking about here today is only the tip of the iceberg. A similar problem is that of compensating medicines at a preferential price or, rather, not compensating people with rare diseases, where the annual cost of treatment can amount to several hundred thousand euros. As we know, the inclusion or non-inclusion of medicines takes into account a number of factors, i.e. criteria which the Minister has read to us and which are specifically based on the Health Insurance Act. In order for one medicine to reach the list of preferential medicines, the Committee for Medicinal Products must consider the matter and then make a decision. Economic justification, efficiency, becomes a very important weight language. The cost of sickness insurance for medical benefits may not exceed 20% of the annual health insurance budget. This year it amounts to 14.6%, probably in addition to the medical costs for people in hospital, for example. In fact, you might think we have a small supply. Therefore, we need to make a decision on a specific person and a medicinal product on the basis of economic viability, putting the individual and his only chance of simplifying and prolonging his life and the economic cold estimate and cost-effectiveness on the other side. Do you treat one person or at the same time ten or a hundred people? A difficult question that the Minister must answer. This is where we actually come to the basic question, or indeed the root question: Does everyone have the right to health protection, for example, if the medicine is more expensive than the average agreed price? As Article 28 of our Constitution states, everyone has the right to health protection. By listening to today's debate and taking part in Saturday's conversations, it seems that money and efficiency are prevailing human life. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U125	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U126	The second point that arose during today's debate. If we cannot negotiate with pharmaceutical groups as a small country, then the only solution is to cooperate with other countries. And, as we understand, it would be even better if we could do it Europe-wide. However, we cannot do that, because then we would probably go a little against European law. Indeed, if one drug could be obtained at a price of 20 to 25%, we would be able to save a few more lives. Why would that matter? In fact, it seems to me that there is also discrimination against people based on nationality and residence in the European Union. We Estonians may not receive as good and as effective treatment as the German or Swedish citizens, for these countries are bigger, stronger and there are 80 times as many people as we do. But please tell it to someone who's got a problem! Secondly, given our demographic situation, the steady decline in working conditions and the increase in the number of people of retirement age, neither our health insurance system nor our financing model is clearly sustainable. This has been said for years, it has been on the agenda of several government coalitions, but we are still waiting for these changes. Perhaps then it is very welcome and the Minister must be honoured that this 215 million euro will come to healthcare in the coming years. However, if we only put money into this constantly and rapidly changing system, which is an endless hole without any fundamental changes, we will be in exactly the same situation in a few years' time, as has already been the case here. And then we will stop talking about whether or not the health care system, the solidarity insurance system will collapse, but rather when it will happen. But that's what we don't want. Fortunately, the Minister has raised a bit of a cover story today from his further intentions, such as the integration of social services and health services and the change in the management of the health fund. We look forward to it! Courageous decisions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U127	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U128	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Minister and thank the other speakers for opening up this issue. I am very pleased that I am part of this government coalition, which has found additional resources to fund health care. I was actually motivated by the things that were said by two people in their speech, which, I think, were deeply offensive. I have been in the opposition and in the coalition at local level, and here I am now in the coalition. Having been involved in politics for quite a long time, I have seen both sides. I do not think that people's concern for health care is something that should be reflected in this way. On Saturday, I was among those outside the one center in Viljandi, UKU center, and I saw people who contributed from the heart to the school children to the quite elderly. They understood this need, and I also think that all the instruments are important and good. Therefore, the name of this undertaking with certain names is not quite respectable or correct, especially in this Chamber, despite the fact that people have their own personal concerns. I think health care needs support. I also very much agree with Mrs Haukanõm that, despite the increase in money, this system needs to be dealt with in its entirety. Today, unfortunately, it is economic and commodity-based. He should be more human, that's right. I am not sure whether we are the last, but we are certainly the last in Europe in terms of our health costs and GDP. So there is still a very long way to go here, and the fact that we have now found the extra money in the system does not prevent the work being done on the substance. However, the main reason I came to the speaker's desk was that I am sure that donations have been collected at a number of other events, and this is not what was called here. The Prime Minister has been doing this work for three years before he became Prime Minister, and unfortunately he also has his own personal ties to this matter. So I hope we don't call it that in the future in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U129	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U130	Mr President of the sitting! I'm coming here on an exceptional basis right now, and not to talk about what I usually do, I didn't bring the paper, I took the computer. Health. Yeah, now that there's going to be a sin on the part of a health organization, pharmaceutical companies' profits, charity, etc., it's gonna get pretty messy. It is often the case that headlines are commented on without consideration. I've been getting on my nerves for a long time, and I want to read it to you on this computer right now. Everyone says that all areas of our lives should be based on the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, where all citizens' rights are enshrined. And if a development plan is written somewhere, or some fancy plans are drawn up concerning health care, everyone will quote § 28. Has no one really bothered to read through § 28, where there are only four lines of text? I read to you Article 28 of the Estonian Constitution, which does not take half an hour. So § 28, whose first line reads: 'Everyone has the right to health protection. ' And now the text follows: 'The Estonian citizen has the right to state aid in the event of old age, disability, survivors and deprivation. The types, scope and conditions and procedures of aid shall be laid down by law. Unless the law provides otherwise, this right is accorded to a foreign citizen and a stateless person who is present in Estonia as well as to an Estonian citizen. The state encourages voluntary and municipal care. Children's families and people with disabilities are under the special care of the state and local authorities. ' Here I can close my laptop, because there is no more in this § 28 than there is no obligation on the state to organise the health care system, to provide someone with medical care, to organise it or whatever. So it doesn't make sense to base it on the wrong grounds, it doesn't make sense to mention headlines if you haven't read the articles. It's as smart and as good as what some Delfi commentators do who comment on either the picture or the title, but what's the content, it probably doesn't match their reading skills. That's what I wanted to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U131	Marika Tuus-Laul, speaking from the floor? Please, speaking from the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U132	We have talked a lot today about how nice it is to have more money given to health care. And really, it hasn't been done in ten years, and it's extremely important. However, a lot of people have said that if we do not change health care arrangements, the money will go nowhere. But no one has said what to change. I still remind you all that we need to stop this business medicine. Our health care is completely private. We need to start financing it differently, budgetaryly, we cannot do it on a company basis. It turns out that neither hospitals nor other health care institutions are interested in treating a person, but simply in securing their own system and improving their lives. The company is interested in profits, profit figures and profit production. We can't go on like this, we're gonna get stuck. We certainly need to have a single agency responsible for health care, such as the Health Board. Right now, responsibility is divided between the Ministry, the Health Insurance Fund, I don't know, hospitals. And it turns out no one's responsible. We certainly need to change the whole health system. We cannot concentrate on doing business within the national system. That is my very firm position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U133	I'm closing the negotiations. The Minister has wished to exercise his right to make a summary statement. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U134	Thank you. Just a few words in response to the lines that sounded. Firstly, solidarity in health care does not collapse. The solidarity basis of the Estonian health care system, i.e. the fact that people receive health care according to the generally agreed medical standard, regardless of whether they have money or not, is, in my opinion, the greatest value of the Estonian health care system. This value must be preserved and developed, and that is what we are doing. Secondly, the risk that this system will be changed in any way, at least as long as I am responsible for this area, is certainly not. Although true, some other political power has slightly different visions here under different labels, such as the free movement of patients, etc. But I'm sure you don't want to be afraid of that. What a problem this system has within it and the problem is that our solidarity health insurance system as an insurance system does not work perfectly. Basically, it does not work perfectly with regard to the order of treatment. People pay their monthly health insurance fee and the logic is that if you pay a premium, you will be able to get a service if you need it. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Estonia in many cases. This concerns, in particular, outpatient reception, but also certain non-acute scheduled receptions. This concern certainly needs to be resolved and, in the light of the government's decisions, we will be moving strongly in this direction from next year. It was also said that there were no decisions. Decisions are made! The Government of the Republic has approved the state's budget strategy, which, according to the basic state budget law, is the basic document for planning state funding at government level. The budget is a decision at the level of the Riigikogu. These amounts have been written in, and according to the approved figures, the same amounts will also be included in the draft State Budget Act, which will reach the Riigikogu in September. At the same time, we will propose the necessary changes to the procedure of the Riigikogu in order to legalise this extended income base. In his speech, Monika Haukamm said that the minister had to decide whether to treat one person or a hundred people. No, the minister doesn't decide that. And I think it's right that the Minister doesn't decide that. We have agreed on this in Estonian society, as well as in the law, which as a principle, as has been said, is, in certain cases, individually painful. We're all human beings, we're all close to each other, but in the sense of the system, that's the only thing we can think about. If we are able to spend the amount x on one part of the patients to provide them with the same type of service, or spend the same amount to provide a different service to other patients, then we actually appreciate the social impact of this cost. And so do most other countries. This is certainly one way to manage health insurance budgets. There are also countries where the health insurance system has gone bankrupt because there has been an 'open bill': everyone who comes gets a service right away, regardless of how sick they are. On the other hand, it is certainly such a matter of a wider social agreement. Just as we do other public investments, whether or not in the area of safety: where investments have the greatest impact on people's lives, we will make a priority contribution. That's the principle that's been around before. It's not my idea. I have not personally decided to add or not to add any medicines. I have signed the recommendations of the Committee on Medicinal Products, but they have not been political decisions. If anyone wants to build health care differently, these discussions can of course be held. Finally, every year the health care service offered in Estonia gets better. It will be better for us to have additional resources, in view of the fact that technology is improving, in view of the fact that dozens of new medicines come on the market every year. Of course I'd like more! I wish there were more new medicines, I wish the treatment queues were shorter, I want health to be more accessible, I want the technology to be even better if we have it now. And that's where we're going. But not all problems can be solved at the same time, and it is very good that in situations where the state system has to make difficult choices, we have a charity fund that helps people in their individual tragedy. Thanks to them for that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U135	As the closing statement is 5+3 minutes, as President of the sitting, I did not interrupt, but made sure that the speech did not exceed eight minutes, which was not the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U136	The third item on the agenda today is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõmme, Ain Lutsep, Andres Herkel, Artur Talvik, Krista Aru, Külmiki Kübarsep, Andres Ammas and Jüri Adams, on 23 March, about the fraud of funds from the Health Insurance Fund. Monika Haukanõmme, spokesperson's representative, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U137	Mr President! Good minister! On 23 March, eight members of the Free Party submitted to Mr Ossinovski, Minister for Health and Labour, an inquiry into the fraud of funds from the Health Insurance Fund. The boost was given by ETV's "The Spectator" show, where two shows revealed a scheme of how one of the leading medical supplies companies in Estonia has for years submitted fake invoices to the health insurance fund, illegally cashing hundreds of thousands of euros from the patient's unknown health insurance fund. It is now known that this scheme was much more extensive, and unfortunately the Health Insurance Fund did not notice it at the right moment. Namely, people acquired orthosis on the basis of digital prescriptions, and sales companies had the health insurance fund pay off a more expensive product, not the product actually obtained from the medical supplies company. In addition to "The Spectator," the ERR News+ has pointed out the same subject, and it has been reflected at length by Dr. Heiman, an orthopedic doctor. The second impetus for the submission of an inquiry was that fake invoices had been submitted since 2013. It turned out that apart from this company, which was dealt with as "The Spectator," another company was involved in this scheme. We're talking about Health Abi OÜ and AS Gadox. The Health Insurance Fund received references to the fraud scheme from customers already in 2013 and 2014. Unfortunately, it was not paid attention, as well as it was not responded. Nor did the Health Insurance Fund draw attention in the long term to the fact that the percentage of expensive special order products was unusually high among the orthosis presented for compensation. The two companies I named here are involved in the sale and rental of medical supplies, as well as technical equipment. They have contracts with both the Health Insurance Fund and the Social Insurance Board to finance their activities. This raises a reasonable question as to whether exactly the same fraud scheme has been used to sell aids through the Social Insurance Board. On the basis of all the above, we have asked the Minister seven questions and we are waiting for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U138	Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, must answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U139	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'd be happy to answer your questions. Question number one: "How much money has the health insurance fund been estimated to have been cheated? ' To understand the general context, it is important to know that the total budget of the primary early prostheses and orthosis is EUR 1.75 million this year, i.e. from the budget of EUR 1.1 billion of the Health Insurance Fund, this particular group of medical devices represents EUR 1.75 million. This amount has been in a moderate decline since 2014, by the way, 2.1 million was then. The exact amount of damage caused is determined by the police investigation and, in part, by the audit ordered by the Health Insurance Board. As long as we don't have these results, we can't talk about specific damage numbers intelligibly, but police investigations are ongoing and all the necessary data has been requested from the Health Insurance Fund. In the context of criminal investigations, the extent of this damage will, of course, be made clear with the precision of the cent. The second question: 'How do you explain the inaction of the Health Insurance Fund's internal control? Why didn't the client of AS Gadox respond to a direct tip in 2016? 'The Internal Audit Department of the Health Insurance Fund has checked the medical devices. In 2011, the Internal Audit Department made proposals to the Board of the Health Insurance Fund on the basis of a medical device inspection, which led to targeted optional checks in 2014 and 2016. In addition, internal auditors of the Health Insurance Fund audited medical devices in 2015. The Estonian Health Insurance Fund has an obligation to check the justification and quality of the services provided and of the medical devices and medicines reimbursed. One of the control methods is the targeted option, as it is called, where all relevant materials such as medical bills, epic crises, etc, are thoroughly controlled on the basis of a prior analysis. The inspection shall examine enquiries by employers and patients and shall carry out on-the-spot checks. The number of targeted options depends on the complexity of the subject and on the number of hypotheses that need to be investigated in the course of the work, but it can be said that every year there are a hundred targeted options in which the health insurance trusts work through 10,000 to 15000 medical documents. All incoming signals for possible infringements shall always be thoroughly checked. In order to verify the issue of ortoos, targeted choices were made in 2014 and 2016. In March of this year, when the summary of the targeted choices made at the end of 2016 came to an end, shortcomings were identified in the fulfilment of the terms of the contracts with the health insurance fund in those companies whose names have been made public today. Before drawing conclusions and taking steps to remedy the shortcomings, this issue was also discussed by the public, which contributed to the identification of further facts and possible fraud. On this basis, the Health Insurance Fund drew up a specific action plan to address the situation, including an appeal to the police. The Health Insurance Fund has responded to the customer's letter from AS Gadox in 2016. The health insurance fund also contacted the company directly to check the documentation and the company has reimbursed the damage found by the documents to the health insurance fund. The third question: 'How is it possible that the Health Insurance Fund did not react over the years to the high proportion of special order products when Dr Heiman estimates that only a small number of patients need an individual special product? ' At the initiative of the Health Insurance Fund, the organisation of the list of orthoses started in 2014 in order to make it clearer to distinguish between applicable and individually manufactured products. The orthosis is prescribed to the patient by the treating physician according to the patient's need for treatment; the prescription can be given, if necessary, with recommendations or specifications concerning the type of orthosis, for example, if the use of the orthosis applied or prepared is medically justified. It is important that patients who recover from trauma receive the necessary support, so it is justified that there are a number of options in the list of medical devices. I note that the focus of this scheme is not on the type of orthosis issued, but on the double accounting of companies, i.e. one bill was submitted to the health insurance fund and the other one to the patient. Basically, it's a classic fraud. Question 4: "Why didn't they ask for professional advice when moving the orthosir recipe to a digital base? (It has become clear that no specific medical references to the medical accessory are included in the digital prescription.) ' I have to admit, I'm not a specialist in this field, and I can't tell you what the degree of professional involvement was. But I've been assured that the prescriber of the medical device card will provide an additional explanation for the medical device and its use at the prescription centre. This field is on the map. When you open a digital medical device card at the seller's office, you will also see a box in which the doctor has been able to write further explanations and instructions on the medical device to be supplied to the medical device seller. At the same time, it has been said that a number of IT and health professionals were consulted when the digital recept was created and proposals are still welcome. Question 5: 'The responsibility for the situation that has been released and which has lasted for a long time rests with the guidance of the Health Insurance Fund. The situation raises the question of whether the fraudsters had knowledgeable accomplices at the health insurance fund who let the scheme operate in silence. Who takes responsibility for the damage? ' With regard to fraud, both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Insurance Fund, of course, have a zero tolerance. The board of the Health Insurance Fund has categorically rejected the claim that fraudsters had accomplices to the Health Insurance Fund. The commercial partner is actually responsible for the performance of the contract and for providing accurate data. If a partner has maliciously violated the terms of the contract, has provided false information, and has also violated the law, it is a criminal offence that must be held responsible in the manner prescribed by law. The Health Insurance Fund has carried out an additional specific check of all invoices for orthosis to identify possible irregularities immediately and to avoid such cases in the future, and has also started to review previous invoices. In the first order, the invoices submitted during the years 2014 to 2017 will be checked. If an infringement is detected, the sickness fund shall submit a claim for reimbursement to the infringer. What has been the activity of the Health Insurance Fund as of 3 May? Firstly, all the contractual partners selling medical devices have been asked to check the documents of the partners' sales transactions and to confirm that they have complied with and will continue to comply with the rules for dispensing medical devices on favourable terms and do not give false information to the health insurance fund. Secondly, an offence has been issued to the police for further investigation. The police shall cooperate fully to identify the extent of the infringement. Third, as of 1 May, contracts were terminated with two medical device vendors, AS Gadox and Health Abi OÜ. Fourthly, the arrangements for the management of contracts for the sale of medical devices were supplemented. The Director of the Harju Department of Health Insurance Fund was granted the rights of the administrator of sales contracts for medical devices. The administrator, together with the team, prepares checks on the sellers. Fifthly, all aggregated invoices submitted are now subject to an additional check before payment, which means that the seller of medical devices will submit additional sales documents to the health insurance fund, such as purchase and sale documents, purchase receipts, etc. Sixthly, the Financial Supervision Authority was asked to assess the compliance of the framework for monitoring the contracts of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and checking the correctness of health insurance benefits with the objective of minimising the risk of insurance fraud. After evaluation, the sickness fund will complement its procedures. What are the future activities of the Health Insurance Fund? Firstly, in cooperation with the police, the amount of the damage is determined and the sums wrongly paid are recovered. Secondly, the aggregated invoices submitted by the sellers of orthosis are monitored in detail and additional documents are requested at least during the first half of the year. Thirdly, in April, the proposals drawn up on the basis of the results of the last target selection of the Health Insurance Benefit Verification Service were confirmed, which, apart from the above steps, will help to improve the reimbursement of medical devices. Fourthly, from May onwards, new contracts will be concluded with the medical device vendors, which will provide much more extensive contractual supervision rights for the Health Insurance Fund. Then more checks will be made. By the end of April, an assessment of the market situation was completed analysing the market share of the contracts that were cancelled. This is important because the two companies with which the contracts were terminated had included about half of the sales volume of medical devices. The sale of medical devices also takes place after the termination of these two contracts in almost every region of Estonia. The permanent point of sale of orthosis is not just in the counties of Saare and Rapla, which is the problem. The Health Insurance Fund has met sellers and pharmacies who are preparing to sell these products in these regions since mid-May to ensure the availability of orthosis. Ortoses can continue to be ordered through sales agents working in hospitals as well as via e-shops. The Health Insurance Fund provides current information to insured persons. Question six. It is possible for the Health Insurance Board to set a performance fee. There is an interest in how much the performance fee has been set. The Supervisory Board decides on the payment of the performance fee to the members of the Management Board on the basis of a report on the completion of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund's score card. The score card includes the strategic objectives of the Health Insurance Fund, the thresholds for meeting them and the metrics. Once the objectives have been met, the Governing Council will be able to award a performance fee to the Governing Board. This information is available in the annual reports and on the website of the Health Insurance Fund. The question was asked as to how much the performance fee has been paid since 2013. In 2016, the Supervisory Board decided to pay a performance fee to the Chairman and members of the Management Board for the performance of the 2015 work in the amount of one month's remuneration. A similar decision was taken in 2015 and was taken this year for the previous year. In 2014, the Supervisory Board decided to pay the members of the Management Board a two-month remuneration for the performance of the 2013 work. Now I am talking about the responsibility of the board and the board of directors. What is my responsibility, and what is the responsibility of the board members? The liability of the members of the Board and the Supervisory Board is laid down in the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act. The members of the management board and the supervisory board shall be jointly and severally liable for the damage caused to the sickness insurance fund by the infringement of the laws and the statutes of the sickness insurance fund and the failure to comply with their obligations. The term of validity of the claim against a member of the Executive Board shall be seven years; the term of expiry of the claim against a member of the Supervisory Board shall be five years. The Health Insurance Fund shall conclude a liability insurance contract in order to ensure the material liability of the members of the Board and the Supervisory Board under the basic conditions and in accordance with the procedures laid down in the statutes of the Health Insurance Fund. Under the articles of association, the liability insurance contract amounts to EUR 3,2 million, the members' own liability being EUR 3,200. But before answers can be given in substantive terms, which I think was meant by the question, because it was not about the legal side, we wait until the necessary procedures have been carried out, and then we can talk about it. I say right away that, at the last meeting of the Health Insurance Board, the Council decided, on the basis of the initial mandate prepared by a good colleague, Maris Lauri, to order an extraordinary independent audit in the Health Insurance Audit Committee in order to deal with these issues and to really clarify the scope of this scheme, but also its systemic nature. It should also be assessed whether the measures taken by the Health Insurance Board or by the Board, in particular the Board, to reduce fraud were sufficient, whether the steps taken after the targeted choices had been made and the results were available, were sufficient to ensure an adequate response. All these questions will be answered in the audit. Once they have been answered, it is possible to speak further. It is undoubtedly important that I would like to stress that the Health Insurance Fund concludes hundreds and hundreds of contracts with hundreds of service providers. As a system, of course, we must ensure that every euro that exists in the health insurance system is used for its purpose, not for anyone's personal and criminal enrichment. But it is clear that every particular tool, medical device, medicine and healthcare provision cannot be individually checked; there are simply too many of them. Consequently, two things are needed. Firstly, a risk management system is needed. It must be designed in such a way that it is not possible to provide certain types of data, etc. Secondly, of course, the understanding in the Council is very clear. I repeat: if anyone intends to cheat on the health insurance fund in the future, let him know that every single case will be investigated by the police. There will be no and there will be no termination of recovery by agreement. It's happened before, there's no more coming, every case goes to the police. A very clear message: you know what you're risking.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U140	Dear Minister, To answer the seventh question, I offer you the same opportunity as during the previous debate. There are a number of options for dealing with pending enquiries, as you know. Now let's start a round of questions. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U141	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I will give you the opportunity to answer this very important, seventh question as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U142	Thank you. Question 7: 'As the issue of aid instruments is both your responsibility and that of the Minister for Social Protection, have you planned coordinated action to identify the situation and what are the concrete steps ahead for the Ministry? " Yes, it is true that social aids have been compensated by the Social Insurance Board, and work aids by the unemployment fund. The unemployment fund does not have such a scheme; the way to obtain these aids is different. It is not the person who buys the aid, but the unemployment fund issues the aid to the person who needs it by acquiring it himself. The situation with the Social Insurance Institution is sadder. If the activities of the Health Insurance Fund to determine the scope of this scheme are known and I have explained this to you, we will comb through every single bill, we will have audits and we will make it clear, then it will be more difficult with the Social Insurance Board. In particular, as of 1 January 2016, the administration of the aid was transferred to the administration of the Social Insurance Board. What happened before, and mostly with the same companies, is very difficult to identify. At the Social Insurance Board, the same companies have done the same things now, but very similar things. The Health Insurance Fund and the Social Insurance Board have worked together, for example, when they have turned to the Health Insurance Fund and it has become clear that the aid was received from the Social Insurance Board, we have provided information there, and on the contrary, the Social Insurance Board has provided the Health Insurance Fund with information about cases that are actually covered by the Health Insurance Fund. However, it is considerably more difficult to explain the extent of the damage at the Social Insurance Board. The Social Insurance Institution has made a public appeal that if people have doubts as to whether the right thing was issued to them, they should report it. The Social Insurance Board has discovered violations in five companies, with a total of 32 such transactions and an amount of EUR 6000. The infringements have meant that mass production aids have been sold under the name of individual products at a higher limit and a higher limit. The Social Insurance Board has also received invoices for transactions that have not been made. The next step is to meet companies that have had infringements and then discuss whether to impose a contractual penalty (up to 7% of the amount of transactions in the six months preceding the infringement) or terminate the contracts. But it's a little more complicated to figure out the extent of all of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U143	Minister, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U144	Mr President! Good minister! In view of the Minister's state of health and his loss of vote, we decided that we would not ask questions, but that we would give speeches. First of all, of course, thank the Minister for his explanations. For all of us here in the Riigikogu as well as for people throughout the country, it is as if the mother's milk has been provided with the knowledge that the sickness fund does not have enough money. This means that the health insurance fund is short of money and the services are underfunded, since 2013, since which the health insurance fund has been in constant deficit and minus has increased at an increasing rate. We all know that the uncovered need for treatment is EUR 70 million, etc. Such facts come together. The budget deficit has been tackled by a wide range of measures, such as reducing the number of contracts, i.e. the number of treatment cases directly purchased, which in fact leads to an increase in the number of treatment orders. Therefore, treatment volumes are decreasing, expensive medicines are not available, as we talked about on the previous item, etc. There is a long list of health concerns and unpopular decisions need to be made. On the other hand, our health system is considered to be very cost-effective and is being set as an example to other countries over and over again. But how cost-effective can we be and how sustainable is it to be if we do not pay attention to, or take a condescending view of, obvious misdemeanours? Even if only 1.75 million medical aids are available from the 1.1 billion budget of the Health Insurance Fund and hopefully the share of misuse is not very high, this is a huge amount of money that we really need in healthcare. Every euro is important. If there is a question of where to get more money for health care, the subject we are discussing today will show this place. If we act wisely, we are attentive, and we can prevent more fraud, then we have saved money. The misuse of the orthosis revealed by the Spectator in March did not come as a surprise to the Health Insurance Fund. Initially, the Health Insurance Fund claimed that it did not know anything about the matter, but a little later it was recognised that the Health Insurance Fund had already been aware of misuse since 2013 and 2014, but it was probably not paid enough attention at first. The person who turned to the health insurance fund was told to go to the company because the health insurance fund couldn't do anything. This argument does not sound very credible. After all, it is the Health Insurance Fund that finances this service, so it also has the possibility and right to explain, in case of doubt, whether or not this doubt is justified and has the necessary control systems for that purpose. It is the responsibility of the Health Insurance Fund, like any other institution, to take every approach seriously. Unfortunately, the sickness fund did not do so, which allowed money to be defrauded over several years. More and more, the question arises as to how the health fund still did not have any interest in the fact that the number of "individual" or "adapted" orthosis was unnaturally high among orthosises. What the Health Insurance Fund has now started to do is commendable. These steps have been taken quite a number of and very important ones. However, the Health Insurance Fund began to do so under pressure from the media, not on its own initiative. It is therefore very questionable whether the board of the Health Insurance Fund really understands its responsibilities and tasks. We heard about the board's performance fees here. Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U145	Two more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U146	The members of the Executive Board shall also receive an annual performance fee. The performance fee shall be paid on the basis of performance card metrics, indicators. But if there are irregularities, can't you not pay the fee? This issue is not related to the score card. This raises the question of whether the score card is the best indicator for measuring success or result. We look forward to the results of the audit ordered by the Council. Hopefully, we'll all learn from this, and there won't be any more long-term money stealing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U147	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U148	First of all, I will mention this most tragedy. As Monika Haukanõm said, we are given as a mother's milk to know that the sickness fund doesn't have any money. Surely there is no money at all, but the more demoralizing thing is that they let themselves be robbed in this way of a rather vulgar way of daylight. This is not altered in any way by the fact that the budget for these specific supplies is 1.75 million a year, to which the Minister also referred, as if it were a negligible part of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, some of which were committed with these disgusting frauds. How has this been the case when there was now a confirmation that 10,000 to 15,000 medical documents would be examined either through internal control or other control mechanisms? It is a question of how people do not notice the fact that they have been billed for more expensive services than the patients actually needed. I want to ask you two questions. The minister said that the orthosir recipe would be accompanied by comments from the doctor. This information, which we have and which comes from the press and Dr Heiman, referred to above, if I am not mistaken, is the opposite, there are no specific comments on the medical accessory on the digital prescription, and doctors' representatives were not included in the technical development of the digital prescription at the time. That's where the Troubles start. We'd like to find out how it really is. Question two. The minister here said that it was a double-accounting operation, and it was just as if you couldn't spot it. Who's working at the Health Insurance Fund if they don't realize that bills are being issued on a massive basis for more expensive medical supplies? I understand that double-accounting was in these fraud companies, not in the Health Insurance Fund itself, but still, how is it possible that such a thing could not be noticed over the years? However, it was pointed out above that the health insurance fund was aware of this. Maybe that's the case, I can't confirm it here, but it's obvious that we're trying to make it look like these things are starting to come out through internal control. However, I have to admit that, given the anatomy of this whole case and as has been pointed out in the press, these frauds started in 2013, it is not convincing that no one at the Health Insurance Fund understood that fraud was taking place in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U149	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, I will also ask a few questions here, in the form of a speech, about what is going on in this whole story, and what we are hoping - in the longer term, probably - for an answer to.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U150	There are no more requests to speak, I will conclude the negotiations. Would the Minister like to speak? No. Question 340 has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U151	The next item is the inquiry for ferry traffic submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Urve Tiidus, Arto Asa, Kalle Laaneti and Toomas Kivimägi on 20 March (No 334). Urve Tiidus has the floor on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U152	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Madam Minister! On 20 March, along with other friends from our group, Kadri Samson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, discussed the question of the ferry connections between Saaremaa and Hiiumaa. In the meantime, a lot of water has flowed into the sea, a new ship has arrived on the line, and the peak season is about to begin. I remind you of what we had to worry about back then. In March, the rural governments of the two islands expressed a serious desire to tighten the timetable on the Triigi‐Sõru route, i.e. between Saaremaa and Hiiumaa, leaving this mark uncoordinated schedules and volumes offered by the Ministry until the end of May this year, as they do not satisfy real demand. That was what was said in the letter to the Ministry. The need for a tighter timetable has been on the agenda in the past. In 2014, the representative of the Ministry in Hiiumaa said that the new ferry could remain small. In order to compensate for this, the possibility of ordering more trips on the route was notified. Inter-island shipping is known to stimulate economic cooperation between the two islands, including tourism. On 19 March, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications announced that the public transport route supported by public funds was intended primarily to ensure passengers and not freight transport, as requested by the county authorities. There had been talk, among other things, about milk transport. According to the Ministry, support for the economic activities of individual undertakings is contrary to the principles of public transport management and financing and would also constitute unlawful State aid. For the first time, the Ministry's reply to the rural governments used the expression that the shipping line between Saaremaa and Hiiumaa is a line of convenience. The word 'comfort line' may create an association with the word 'comfort flag'. (This is my personal association.) The comfort flag is known to mean cheap ships for shipowners, no taxes and freedom to use cheap labour. Let's just say it wasn't the most successful choice of words, I mean the word 'line of comfort'. In terms of accuracy, it should be said that you, Minister, have not used that word. I already expressed my hope in March that the islands and the Ministry would find a satisfactory solution for the parties. Maybe today we'll hear about it. I know that part of the trips have already been coordinated. So we are waiting for answers to the questions and we want to know about the current situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U153	The question must be answered by Mr Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U154	I thank the heirs! As Urve Tiidus, the representative of the heirs, has already explained, this inquiry has been submitted to the Minister because the representatives of Saare and Hiiu County Government sent a letter to the Department of Aviation and Maritime Affairs on 10 March and received a reply from the Chancellor on 16 March. To clarify the background, I say that this letter, signed by Hiiu County Governor Riho Rahuoja and Raivo Peeters, who are responsible for the functions of the Saare County Elder, stated, among other things, that the county governments are not coordinating the schedule offered by the Ministry, because they believe that the Sõru-Tartu route requires ferry connections every day and every year, and the annual number of trips should be offered by the Ministry instead of 1038 in 2016. That's a pretty significant increase in volume. Going back to history, I could say I didn't have time to go to the archives, so until 2009 there was no situation where there was a year-round daily schedule between Sõru and Triik. I would remind you that this letter came on 10 March, the budget had been adopted some time earlier, and it was not very easy to meet this demand. But now I'm gonna tell you a little bit about the Chancellor's letter that caused this inquiry. In his letter to the county authorities, the Chancellor stressed the principles of organising and financing public transport, that the public transport route supported by public funds was primarily intended to ensure passenger transport. He also confirmed that if a year-round day-to-day connection was requested on the Sõru-Traigi route, it would be important to know the actual demand. The heirs ask, first, why the chancellor's letter contains a reference that support for the economic activities of individual undertakings may constitute unlawful State aid. The current ferry line schedule is set on the basis of general demand. As such, it certainly lacks selective support for businesses and we cannot talk about unacceptable State aid. It has so far been based on the fact that an overall demand has to be ensured for the timetable. Now I am talking about the state aid mentioned in the reply. Personally, I think that if the background to the problem raised is that milk is produced in Hiiumaa and milk producers have to take their raw milk to Saaremaa, where there is the nearest dairy compound, even with better connections, milk producers in Hiiumaa would not be beneficiaries of State aid under the rules laid down in the European Union. On the contrary, the government has also thought about providing farmers with all possible help. The best example of this is the current government's decision to grant farmers the same amount of transitional support as their counterparts in neighbouring countries who received them last year and the year before. However, the letter would probably not have received such an answer if it had not been submitted in a tone such as to require these daily journeys only in the interests of a particular undertaking, which is indeed not in line with the objective of organising public transport. If there had not been such a claim that the daily connection to the Sõru-Greek ferry line was also inevitable in winter, because the raw milk was regularly transported from Hiiumaa to Saaremaa, providing an important raw material for Saaremaa Dairy Industry AS, or one of the dairy industries, but it would have been said that this connection was necessary because of the regional policy needs of many dairy farmers in Hiiumaa, it would not have been worth mentioning in the reply to the State aid. That's what I think personally. The second question: "Is MKM really intended to limit entrepreneurship in Hiiumaa and instead pay social benefits to people there? ' The aim of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is not to restrict entrepreneurship in Hiiumaa. On the contrary, on the basis of general demand, the State has established a regular public transport link which can reasonably be used by undertakings. The aim of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is to ensure the unhindered functioning of public transport and the availability of an appropriate service. In cooperation with rural governments, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has repeatedly discussed the issues of ferry line between Sõru and Triigi. Let's look at history. We are now in a situation where the daily connection is guaranteed from 52 weeks in 23 weeks. But it hasn't always been that way. I've got nine years of data available. Nine years ago, this daily connection was nine weeks shorter, or it existed from week 22 to week 35, or 14 weeks a year, now it exists from week 15 to week 37, or 23 weeks a year. For nine years, this period has increased by nine weeks. When asked on 10 March to extend this period from 23 weeks to 52 weeks, it is quite demanding. But to sum up, over the years, there has been a period of daily, continuous growth in shipping connections, and that is what we will continue to do. The third question: 'Living on islands requires a different transport connection than on the mainland. Please define what you mean by comfort service. " Indeed, as Urve Tiidus mentioned, I have not used the word 'comfort service' for the connection between islands. I don't consider inter-island connections to be a comfort service. The ferry line of the Republic is designed to allow residents from Hiiumaa to Saaremaa and vice versa to do so at reasonable time and cost. But it must also be borne in mind that this is not the only possible connection, there is also an alternative that is time- and probably more money-intensive. But if Sõru was unable to use the route, then it is still possible to get from one island to another, but with a circle, via the mainland. At the same time, several small islands in Estonia have only one connection to either the mainland or the nearest large islands. This year, the fact has become clear that the new Ruhnu Community procurement was considerably more expensive than expected. In the case of Ruhnu, this is not a selective cost, but a cost which the State has to bear in the amount of the result of the tender. It's Ruhnu's only connection. I would point out that according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the ferry route of Sõru is not unnecessary. This is definitely needed, for people who study and work on another island, so that they can go home and return once or a couple of weeks. At the same time, we also need to look at statistics and the fulfillment of our travels. So far, statistics have shown that demand for this route is increasing significantly in the spring and summer. We regularly monitor the fulfillment in cooperation with rural governments and carriers, and we also take this into account when planning the volume and schedule of trips. Question 4: 'As county governments as the Ministry are part of the government sector. It is strange to read such an unconstructive dispute between them in the media. What solution do you see? Is the abolition of rural governments an opportunity to avoid such disputes? " According to the public service contract concluded by the Ministry, the role of rural governments is to coordinate the timing of the trips ordered by the Ministry, i.e. the timetables, but the number of trips cannot be decided by the county authorities. The coordinating role of rural governments is foreseen because they should be aware of the needs and patterns of movement of local residents, which is why they are able to provide important input in the preparation of timetables. The public service contract provides for an indicative number of journeys to enable the carrier to plan its obligations and potential costs. As a rule, the Ministry has been given the right to change the number of trips to 20% in the agreement, and then in the direction of reducing and increasing the number of trips. This right is left to the Ministry and its realisation depends on the amount of resources allocated from the state budget. Normal cooperation between the Ministry and the county governments is essential and therefore the maritime service of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will go to Hiiumaa in its full composition next week, exactly one week on Monday. To date, an agreement has been reached on the Sõru-Traigi route agreement until the end of July. Question 5: 'In a few months' time, the top season of tourism will begin in the islands. What is the willingness of ferry traffic to increase the positive socio-economic impact of tourism? ' Ferry traffic is ready for the summer season. From 10 April 2017 the ferry connection on Sõru was made daily. Gradually, more journeys will be added. From mid-June, instead of the current two return trips, three and from the beginning of July to mid-August, four return journeys are made. Similarly, the number of trips is increasing on Rohuküla-Heltermaa and Kuivastu-Virtsu ferry lines. Since the end of April, all TS Ships OÜ has four brand new ferry. On 1 May the new ferry Soela, specially made for the connection between Hiiumaa and Saaremaa, started serving on the Sõru-Traigi route. Both 200 passengers and 28 passenger cars are expected to be transported at the same time, but up to 32 passenger cars could fit the ship on the basis of calculations based on the results of the simulation tests. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U155	Inquiries have questions. First Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U156	Thank you. Thank you for your answers, Madam Minister. After the completion of the administrative reform, we will have large and strong local governments in particular. The perspective of the future may be that there will be a large island government. It's an object of dreaming. Secondly, perhaps it would be wise for them to organise transport issues themselves, while, each year, negotiating with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which is the amount of budgetary resources that goes on to support these routes. The same could be true for air traffic. Because, as we can see, constant disputes are still about how traffic is seen by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, how people on the ground see it and how tourists see it. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U157	I understand that the hypothesis of the question is that from the day the giants and the islanders decide to make a single municipality, it is an intra-municipal transport. I think that intra-municipal transport is really a matter for this great local government, but trans- county transport is still the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U158	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U159	Honourable President! Respectable Minister, please specify! If there were 1038 travels on that route instead of the requested 2016 trip, what would it cost the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U160	I have to admit, I don't have that calculation on me right now. However, I asked about the optimal version that if, in the months when there is no daily connection, the connection would be guaranteed, how much would it cost? If a round trip was to be added to each day, then 306 additional trips would be needed, which would cost EUR 61200.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U161	No further questions. Thank you for your questioning to the addressee. On behalf of the rapporteurs, I would like to speak to Mr Laaneti.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U162	I didn't just ask my question. I don't think we can think beyond the frame in this room from time to time. It's in our own hands to make laws. I continue to believe that the local people are certainly the smartest of their own to say how they want to organise their movements. According to the current law, the organisation of inter county transport is really the property of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and within municipalities and counties it is the property of municipalities and rural governments. In fact, we could think about how we can provide the best service for people. Yeah, they're about to get more money. If we have large municipalities, they will certainly be wealthier in the future than the existing ones. If they find it necessary to put more money in order to order some trips, for example, it is always much easier than to go and negotiate with the other party, who says that your letter was not correct enough, you did not correctly formulate what you wanted or what or how many trips you want to order. In my opinion, the people with whom I have spoken have been in agreement with me that this would have been a great opportunity for local people. In view of the fact that the Riigikogu also has a draft concerning the abolition of rural governments, I, along with the members of the Riigikogu, have a plan to make amendments that specifically concern the provision of additional opportunities for local authorities in organising public transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U163	Thank you. There's no more calls. Would the addressee of the inquiry be willing to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm going to finish my fourth questioning.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U164	We will go to the fifth question that has been submitted by members of the Riigikogu Ain Lutsepp, Artur Talvik, Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Andres Herkel, Jüri Adams, Monika Haukanõm and Külmiki Kübarsepp. They submitted it on 22 March 2017 and deal with the issue of the views of Nord Stream 2, Gazprom and Estonia. The number of the inquiry is 336. In the name of the heirs, please speak to Ain Lutsep!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U165	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Our inquiry concerns the planned pipeline pipeline Nord Stream 2 of the Russian Federation's natural gas export monopoly Gazprom. This is a geopolitical project whose economic justification is questionable. The establishment of Nord Stream 2 is contrary to the European Union's energy strategy, which provides for the diversity of energy sources and the diversification of risks. Estonia's previous governments have expressed a similar position. On 21 March, neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure replied to journalists' questions. Estonia's position, however, was explained by Ando Leppiman, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, who said this: 'Estonia estimates that the significant increase in the market share of one supplier in the European Union gas market will reduce the diversity of sources of supply, increase the concentration of the market, which will negatively affect gas prices and reduce the European Union's energy security due to increased dependence on one supplier. ' Okay. In 2011, the European Commission launched an investigation into Gazprom's activities on the gas markets in Central and Eastern Europe and found that the gas company had breached a number of EU competition rules. We would point out that on 13 March the European Commission opened Gazprom's proposals to the European Commission to comment. With them, Gazprom undertakes to complete its investigation into market infringements initiated in 2012. As a result, Gazprom reduced the price of gas sold to Europe. The government has now also reached and published a position. It sounds like this: the European Commission should impose a fine on the gas company at the end of the procedure. From Urmas Reinsalu's letter to the European Commission, we read: 'Taking into account the extent of the infringement, Estonia considers that the procedure should be terminated in such a way as to ensure the cessation of the abuse of monopoly status and subsequent imposition of a fine. ' However, we also point out that in 2014 99.9% of the gas consumed in Estonia came from Gazprom, in 2015 Gazprom's market share fell to 80%, and by 2016 it again rose to 93%. At the same time, the price of natural gas supplied to Estonia differs from the price of Western Europe, which is 20% higher. In this regard, we have four questions for Kadri Samson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U166	Thank you. Kadri Samson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, now has the opportunity to answer these questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U167	I thank the heirs for their questioning! I'll read out the question and give you an answer. The first question: 'What is the position of the Government of the Republic regarding Nord Stream 2? ' The Government of the Republic takes matters of energy security very seriously. The Nord Stream 2 project was discussed by the Government on 27 April 2017. The government is guided by the principle that the European Union needs different sources of gas supply and gas routes. The diversification of energy sources is one of the objectives of the Energy Union, which we strongly support. The establishment of Nord Stream 2 is countering this objective by concentrating supply routes on the Baltic Sea Corridor and increasing the European Union's dependence on Russian gas. From an energy security point of view, this is a project with a negative impact. Question 2: 'Have you, and when have you been, involved in the ministerial meeting of the European Union and in other fora on this issue and what positions have you expressed? " The Nord Stream 2 issue was last discussed on 27 February 2017 by the Council of Energy Ministers of the European Union. Together with colleagues from Poland, Lithuania, Romania, Sweden and Slovakia, Estonia asked the European Commission to present a comprehensive legal assessment of the compliance of Nord Stream 2 with EU law and the principles of the Energy Union. The same issue has also been discussed at the level of the Baltic Prime Ministers. I do not rule out that, even today, when the Prime Minister of Latvia and Lithuania is meeting with our Prime Minister in Estonia, this matter may have been an issue. I don't have any recent records. But on 9 December 2016, the Baltic Prime Ministers signed a joint declaration in which the Nord Stream 2 project referred to the non-compliance with the European Union's energy policy objectives. I do not have a formalized contract here, I have four lines of English text here. I do not know how the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu prescribe whether I can read these four lines to you in the original language or whether I must try to make a quick translation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U168	The manager promises not to upset you if you read it in the original language. I believe that this will, in any case, help to make this text understandable. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U169	No offense, then! The Prime Ministers have signed such a text: 'Reiterated that all new energy infrastructure projects should be in compliance with the EU's energy policy goals and principles, and remained committees to the opinion that Nord Stream II project goes against the EU policy objectives to diversify the energy supply sources, supplies and routs, eliminate the domain of one energy supply supplier and energy security. " Perhaps the same principle that the government has had was signed by the Prime Ministers, and that is now the position of three countries. Question 3: 'Have you, and how have you drawn the attention of colleagues in the European Union to the transit of Nord Stream 2 natural gas through Ukraine and the consequent impact on Ukraine's economy and security? How do you assess this effect? ' In the event that the Nord Stream 2 project is realised by redirecting gas transit from the Ukrainian gas corridor, this will certainly have a significant negative impact on the implementation of reforms in the energy sector in Ukraine and on the overall economic and geopolitical situation. Ukraine may become even more vulnerable to Russia's influence. Question 4: 'The European Commission has punished a number of European energy companies for breaching the gas directive and market rules. Gazprom is currently seeking the closure of an investigation against the company in 2012. What are Estonia's views on this? ' The proposals put forward by Gazprom to the European Commission to close the investigation and improve the market situation do alleviate the market situation in Estonia and other affected Central and Eastern European countries, but are not sufficient. It is necessary to ensure that Gazprom's dominant position is avoided in the future. The Government of the Republic discussed the issue on 27 April and considered that, since Gazprom's actions have caused direct economic damage to the Member States, the procedure for breach of competition rules was justified and could also result in a fine. However, if the European Commission decides that Gazprom's commitments are sufficient to resolve the competitive situation and accept future solutions, then we will stand for these commitments to be supplemented. In a letter to the Commission, Estonia proposes to oblige Gazprom to link the price of gas sold under long-term contracts to the price of a liquid gas exchange in Western Europe. It is also important to ensure that more than one distributor in each Member State can import gas. In addition, it should be ensured that, together with the development of a liquid gas exchange in the Baltic States, Gazprom is also obliged to supply this stock exchange. Well, there were four questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U170	Thank you. Inquiries have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U171	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for these clear positions. It seems that things are also going in the right direction in the activities of the Government of the Republic. But I want to get a vision of how this topic will develop at European Union level. As regards Nord Stream, Mr Šefcovic, European Commissioner for Energy, was also very acutely and concerned recently. The second question is the fine of Gazprom. If very reputable and large multinational companies and corporations have not escaped the European Union easily, then Gazprom should certainly not escape. How do you see the further progress of this process, and what direction can this solution eventually come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U172	First of all, about Gazprom's fine. Since this is a competition issue, the Government of the Republic asked for input from the Estonian Competition Authority. But this issue was also an issue for me last week, when the Government of the Republic was head-to-head at an outing session in Brussels. I had a meeting with Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager. His input was that for a few more weeks, proposals from all Member States are expected and the Commission will continue to act on this basis. Vice-President Šefcovic has identified the construction of Nord Stream 2 that they expect that the most important principles of the EU Internal Gas Directive, namely ownership unbundling from gas pipeline supply and transmission activities, third party access to the gas transmission system and the setting and approval of non-discrimination tariffs by the relevant regulatory authorities, should also apply to the sub-sea part of the project. Therefore, in its letter at the end of March, the Commission indicated that they would be prepared to enter into negotiations with the Russian Federation in order to meet these conditions, but to do so it is necessary for the Commission to request a mandate and a negotiating mandate from the Council of the European Union. We know, of course, that there are Member States that say that it is a pure business project and that the Commission does not make sense to intervene here or to demand that the principles of the Internal Gas Directive be respected.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U173	Well, the Hatter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U174	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! In my opinion, it is very good that Estonia is less dependent on gas supplies in a large neighbouring country than in Europe. But I think there's a consequence. In fact, during the discussions, the Minister Reinsalu, who has been referred to in the media, has very boldly pointed out that the price of gas in Estonia is considerably more expensive than that of other Europe. Hence my question: what is the government's plan to add excise duty to gas in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U175	The real question is that the gas we use should not come from just one source. I consider the principle that the regional LNG terminal should come, as the studies show, to the most appropriate place, i.e. the Gulf of Finland. The prime ministers today certainly also discussed regional LNG terminal issues. As regards the European Union's dependence on gas imports, statistics show that the biggest decrease in gas consumption took place in Finland in 2015 (11.4%), compared to last year it was 10.4% in Estonia and 8.9% in Sweden. Gas excise duty is one of the environmental taxes. When it came on the table, the reason probably was that the gas is purely imported, while the electricity we produce ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U176	No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No, I don't. In that case, I will stop dealing with the fifth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-08_U177	Everyone can register for speaking in a free microphone after the hammer hit. It seems that everything that had to be said has already been said. All we have to do is wish for a nice day's work. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 19.25 p.m.
