ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the seventh session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members cannot attend today: Janez Janša, Jakob Presečnik, Franc Jurša, Villa Rezman, Ljubo Germič and Branko Marinič. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 8. Agenda item - Defence of the summer plan for development and renewal of motorways for the year 2009. The annual plan was submitted to the Council by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the proposal for a plan. Dr. Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is at its 22nd session. 4. 2009, adopted the Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of the Highway for 2009 and forwarded it in agreement with the National Assembly. It was subsequently found that certain sections which form part of the annual plan due to delays in the procurement procedures in 2009 and the implementation of the works will not be implemented to the extent originally planned. However, the decision was also taken to withdraw from the resources of the funds the envisaged earmarked resources in 2009 and to reduce the projected construction consumption. Accordingly, a new text of the 2009 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways was prepared, which was adopted and sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly. The total value of the new annual plan is EUR 672.515 million, totalling EUR 508,194 million for the development and renewal of motorways. In line with this annual traffic plan, a total of 56.9 kilometers [56.9 km] of road sections will be dedicated this year — 44.7 kilometers [44.7 km] of four lanes, 10.3 miles [10.3 km] of fast road, and 1.9 kilometers [1.9 km] of connecting road. This is the section of the Pesnica-Slivnica motorway, a section of the Pesnica-Zrkovska road with a length of 5.3 km, part of the Nova Zrkovska road with a length of 1.9 km, a section of the Zrkovska road-Ptujska road with a length of 4.2 km, a section of the Pluska-Poniki motorway with a length of 7.6 km, a distance of 7.2 km. On the Vipava arm of Razdrto-Vipava, a sub-department of a fast road across the Ribnice 10.3 km long. On the Podravska foot section of the Slivnica-Gruškovje motorway, the Slivnica-Drazenci subsection 19.8 km long and part of the Draženci-Gruškovje subsection from the international border crossing of Gruškov to the state border of 0.6 km long. It should be pointed out that the surrender of some of these sections in 2009 will be possible only if all important circumstances allow for the completion of the construction work in accordance with the planned course. This is a number of concessions and it is also a expectation that weather conditions will be favourable. In particular, there is a critical situation in Dolenjska, where the motorway is difficult and, in addition to technical difficulties, the acquisition of two-owner properties is a major problem. Construction will continue on 6.1 km of four - lane roads, 5.2 km of fast road, 10.4 km of two - lane road, 3.1 km of connecting road, and Cikava gas station, which is on the coastline. The Klanec-Ankaran motorway section, the first phase of the connection to Luka Koper at 3.1 km long and the Koper-Isol rapid road section at 5.2 km long. On the upper leg section of the Peračica-Podtabor motorway, 2.4 km long, and the implementation of the second phase on the highway section of Šentvid-Kosez. On the lower leg section of Šmarje Sap-Visnja gora highway, the Cikava gas service platform, I apologize. On the Podravska foot section of the two-pass road Hajdin-Ormož, the sub-section of Gorišnica-Ormož is 10.4 kilometers long. In 2009, construction on the coastline will begin at the Klanec-Ankaran motorway section, the second phase of the connection to Luka Koper, which is 1.4 kilometers long. The value of works on sections and subsections that will be dedicated to or will start construction in 2009 amounts to EUR 297,65 million. In 2009, construction of some state-owned connecting roads will continue, allowing for a better integration of the wider urban areas of the fifth and tenth corridors, with a value of €9.10 million. In 2009 there will also be the preparation of project and other documentation for those properties and sections that will start in 2009, this is for project documentation [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] 41 million and for the purchase of 7.33 million euros. Some sections will carry out final work worth around €33 million. With regard to financial resources for the year, investment transfers, European and highway budget resources will be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u3	Minister, please finish slowly. Time is up. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u4	Well, that's more or less that, if anything, I'll say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The annual plan was considered by the Transport Committee as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Janko Webr for presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. At its 3rd meeting, held on 2 June, the Transport Committee of the National Assembly discussed the 2009 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways, submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration by the Government. The Government forwarded the 2009 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of the Highway to the National Assembly on 16 April but withdrew it in accordance with Article 118 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This ended the legislative process. The Government has submitted a new text of the 2009 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways, which was considered by the Committee at its meeting on 22 May. In his opening statement, Minister Patrick Vlačič presented the main highlights of the annual plan, totalling EUR 689,65 million. EUR 542.63 million is earmarked for construction and reconstruction, and the debt service spending is EUR 294.55 million. The sources of funding, stressed by the Minister, which ensures the implementation of the annual plan, are investment transfers, the European Union budget of €31.34 million, the value added tax refund of €70 million, credits from international financial institutions and foreign loans of €165.93 million, bonds and loans of €274 million, concession fees, additional funds and other resources of € 148.59 million. All of these resources allow for the transfer of 56.9 km of motorway in 2009. Construction will continue on 24.8 km of highway, at 85.5 km of sections the final works will be carried out and construction will start on 1.4 km of highway. In particular, the Minister stressed that the law, which would allow for short-term liquidity, a debt of EUR 30 million for one year for the sections of Slivnica-Drazenci and Beltinci-Lendava in the event of a drop or inequity of funds from the Cohesion Fund, would provide a source for the smooth implementation of these two sections. The annual programme itself was also addressed by other institutions, the Council of State in its opinion recalls the annual reduction in the shares of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the implementation of the Resolution on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways. It also points to the need to amend public procurement legislation in the direction of rationalising public procurement procedures. The Legislative and Legal Service also reviewed the annual programme and notes that the proposed annual programme for the development and renewal of motorways for 2009 departs from the Resolution of the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways, as was the practice in 2008, by simply repeating the comment from 2008. During the discussion, members of the Committee discussed the delays in the construction and completion of individual sections of the motorway, notably the section of the motorway past Trebnje and also the necessity of joining, i.e. the construction of a full connection in the Šmarje-Sap area. They also called on the government to prepare an amendment to the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and to explore the possibility of re-sustaining funding for motorways from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In their debate, they call on the government to prepare a national programme for the construction of other state roads. They considered that it was necessary to speed up the preparation of project technical documentation and to verify the appropriateness of procurement procedures, which often caused unnecessary delays. Representatives of the Ministry of Transport and Darsa gave the Committee members specific answers to the questions raised on individual sections and also on the issue of their implementation, and the Committee agreed after the discussion that the National Assembly should adopt a decision on the consent to the 2009 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways, namely, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia gives its consent to the 2009 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting on 21 May 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u7	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u8	Good afternoon, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! The opinion or position of the Slovenian People's Party Group on the Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Highways for 2009 is as follows. Dearly noted, in 2009 it will be dedicated to 56.9 kilometers of motorways, construction will continue to 24.8 kilometers of highways, final works will be carried out at 85.5 kilometres of sections and construction of the section will begin in 2009, connecting to the port of Koper at 1.4 kilometers. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are concerned that the competent minister will be able to carry out everything planned for this year, given that six months have passed. We expect the Ministry to do everything possible to open a section past Trebnje, which is necessary, because of the increasing traffic. There are no excuses and reasons for this not to happen. Moreover, in the previous mandate, the criticised practice continues and the budget is once again reducing its earmarked resources and increasing its indebtedness. In spite of their involvement in the Resolution of the National Development Projects for the period 2007 - 2023 White landscapes and Koroška, they are increasingly withdrawn from the central highway cross. Of course, we expect that in the new rebalancing, the government will also provide for an investment transfer from the highway construction fund item, because there were no such items now, but it is essential that the implementation of the plan is even possible. In addition, we believe that it is essential to speed up the preparation of project technical documentation and to verify the appropriateness of procurement procedures, which often cause unnecessary delays. On the other hand, the Parliamentary Legislative and Legal Service points out that the proposed Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways for 2009 departs from the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways and it is therefore necessary to amend the Law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of state roads as a basic source of funding and to amend the National Road Construction Programme. At this meeting we will also accept a new agreement and guarantee for the construction of motorway sections totalling €329.73 million. All of this was severely criticised last year by today’s coalition, but unfortunately you haven’t changed anything. The law also provides for a short-term liquidity debt of EUR 30 million per year [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u9	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u10	and Beltinci-Lendava in the event of a drop or a misappropriation of funds from the Cohesion Fund. [[..]] Of course, we believe that the Government must do everything to ensure that cohesion funds do not go out. With this hope, Members of the Slovenian People's Party support the annual plan totalling EUR 689,65 million, because we want the construction of motorways to continue and be completed as soon as possible. At the same time, we wish to stress that we rightly expect the country to approach the rehabilitation and reconstruction of state roads as soon as possible, as well as some local roads destroyed by the construction of the Slovenian highway cross. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Miran Jerič has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u12	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Honourable Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal of the Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways for 2009. The annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways, as it has been for years, is being discussed in the middle of the calendar year, when construction works are on new sections and in the restoration of existing motorways at their peak. What was once an exception and a rejection became an iron rule today. Apparently, the project to build Slovenian motorways is becoming more and more like a huge trans-ocean ship, where rapid and accurate maneuvering is almost impossible. We are increasingly impressed that this biggest project in modern Slovenia is no longer a real influence and is simply taking place under some of its own laws. The price may be excessive, but the fact is that the project is increasingly affected by past decisions and by external factors that have no real impact on its operators. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we are confident and expect from the new Slovenian government and the Ministry of Transport that the situation in the future in this area will be different. With regard to the highway sections themselves and their lengths and the value of works this year, it is probably not necessary to lose too many words, since more or less has already been said. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we understand that the preparation of the annual plan led to the completion of those sections and the sub-sections of the National Program for the Construction of Motorways, which are already being built and completed and the transfer of transport is technically possible this year and the construction of sections on the priority directions of the Slovenian Highway Cross continues as quickly as possible, according to the Goranjska and Lower Pole. The criterion of the economic and financial crisis also assesses and accepts the fact that this year's new construction plan is physically and financially less ambitious than the annual programmes of the past years, although this argument is unlikely to be agreed by a number of macroeconomicists. However, we need to highlight the key feature of the annual plan, namely the fact that the earmarked resources from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia collected under the Law on the provision of earmarked funds have fallen as a source of funds. This is a fact that results from at least three decisions, namely two governments. Firstly, the decisions of the previous government to radically change the funding system of the project, in the context of the economic situation, with high economic growth. Secondly, the decision of the former government to introduce flat-rate tolling for passenger cars. Thirdly, the decision of the current government to transfer the remaining funds from the state budget amounting to EUR 11 million to the Slovenian Directorate for Roads and allocate them to the state road network. We have already opposed both the decisions of the previous government in their adoption and enforcement and our rejection position today. However, the decision of the current government is assessed as a consequence of the situation in which the state budget took place this year. In our view, between the two poor options, the government has decided to make less poor and, with the transfer of earmarked means for the construction of motorways, has reduced the inevitable reduction of funding for state roads, where work is currently under way on about 800 reconstruction and new construction projects. In the expected 2009 debt, the annual plan also deviates most from the Resolution on the National Road Construction Programme. Due to the complexity and difficult leadership of the entire LDS motorway project, it is not expected that the physical forecasts for the following year, when no longer motorway section is expected to be completed, will substantially change. However, we expect a new national highway construction programme to be prepared as soon as possible, based on realistic assumptions, to produce an appropriate study on the long-term financial sustainability of the motorway construction programme. In this connection, the Government will also accelerate all activities to introduce free-flow tolling, which will meet the criteria for fair payment of the use of motorway sections, and will accelerate work in the preparation of projects 3 and 4 of the development axis and also provide adequate financial resources, since the 3rd and 4th development axes also represent a development opportunity or opportunity for places not situated at 5th and 10th motorway corridors. Let me finish. In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for an annual programme for the development and renewal of motorways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Matjaž Han has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Dear President, Minister, Director of the Directorate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have yet another document before us, which unfortunately will not be able to avoid the crisis ahead of us. The Annual Plan for the Development and Construction of Highways for 2009 will, of course, be supported by the Group of Social Democrats. The annual plan is prepared in accordance with the guidelines of the second balance drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, despite the fact that the construction spending is reduced and that the earmarked funds have been reduced or cancelled. As I said at the outset, it is also consistent with the situation in Europe, in the world, and not least in Slovenia, as regards the economic crisis. While the total value of the 2009 annual plan is EUR 689,65 million, a total of approximately cca will be allocated for the development and reconstruction of motorways. 419 million. In line with this plan, 56.9 kilometers [56.9 km] of road sections, 44.7 kilometers [44.7 km] of four lanes, 10.3 miles [10.3 km] of fast road, 2 miles [2 km] of connecting roads, etc., will be placed on the market this year. The section of the Pesnica - Slivnica highway, part of the Pesnica subsection - Zrkovska road in the length of 5.3 km, part of the Nova Zrkovska road in the length of 1.9 km and section of the Zrkovska road highway - Ptujska road in the length of 4.2 km. On the lower leg, which we know is difficult, the Pluska motorway - Ponikve in length 7.6 kilometers and Ponikve - Hrastje in length is also 7.2 kilometers. A section of the fast road Razdrto - Vipava, a sub-department of the fast road across Rebrnice, will be built on the Vipavska Strak. On the Podravské strak highway Slivnica - Gruškovje podsek Slivnica - Dražans in the length of 19.8 km, one part of Draženci subsection - Gruškovje to the border crossing of Gruškovje, to the state border of 0.6 km. The starting point for the preparation of the annual development and renewal plan was to complete those sections and sub-sections that were already being built and their completion and transfer is also technically possible in 2009. And of course, the construction of motorway sections on the priority directions of the Slovenian motorway cross on the upper and lower legs continues as quickly as possible. In particular, the government complied with the following criteria. This was the scope of the contract of works and contractual obligations accepted, the size of the structure of the current transport burdens, the size of the structure of the envisaged transport burdens after ten years and, of course, foreign and domestic loans already secured and all the funds invested, the provisions adopted on State location plans and the situation of land purchases and other real estates. All of this was taken into account by the Government and also submitted such a plan to the National Assembly. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that this ministry and the Government will also implement such a plan and that if it does not realise that the Minister will also make certain moves because we know who is building and how to build state roads or highways. In the parliamentary group, the Social Democrats, as I said before, will, of course, be supported by this annual plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u16	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we continue to stress the importance of modern transport infrastructure for the development of the country. In particular, the construction of road and rail infrastructure should be at the heart of investment state spending, which in particular would have a positive impact in times of acute economic conditions on the growth of gross domestic product, not to mention the sustainability of goods such as the modern road and rail network. We also drew attention to all of this in our package to improve the economic and social situation in Slovenia, which you completely rejected in the government coalition in the National Assembly. We thus missed the opportunity to adopt, in addition to the annual highway development plan, acts to discuss the means for the development of state roads and railway infrastructure as part of the promotion of economic growth in Slovenia. The government introduced the first version of the Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways in 2009, which the Government replaced after the deadline of business, with a new version, which is now on our benches. Unfortunately, at the Transport Committee's meeting, we have come to believe that there is a commercially unacceptable situation. We Members came to the meeting in good faith to consider the material that was transmitted by reference, and there we found that during the session we would have to quickly review 50 pages of the new material, different versions of the plan, with new numbers and items and also pay attention to changes between the old and the new versions. We cannot understand this differently from obstructing the normal work of Members. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, members of the Transport Committee, have therefore left the meeting. However, we still believe that today we have an act on the table that has not been followed by the Rules of Procedure. Now, then, to some of the substantive points. We note that the Government has fully followed the structure and content of the annual plans presented so far and that there are no significant changes here. We also recall the discussions in the previous term, when members of the current coalition, now the opposition, voiced a strong objection to the fundamental change in the way the highway programme is financed by reducing budgetary resources and increasing indebtedness. And what the coalition is proposing today: you have further improved the model of financing highways by not spending even the euro of the budget. So, you fully follow the model of financing highways that was introduced in the previous mandate, as stated, you have completely abolished the budget. In view of so many words spoken in the past, we expected in the Slovenian Democratic Party a completely different, original funding structure from the coalition. At the same time, this kind of mirror is formerly the opposition, now the coalition hold. We therefore expect in the SDS that Darsu's new budget money will go completely towards the necessary modernisation of state roads. If we make some more haste with the money, this time on the spending side. The annual programme provides for the development and renewal of highways around EUR 508 million. This includes most of the works that Dars will deliver through the public procurement system. We think there's still a substantial reserve here. If Dars and the Ministry of Competition calls succeed, we believe that the top number at the end of the year could be 10 to 20% lower, which immediately means saving 50 to 100 million euros. We are confident that between €50 million and €100 million can be saved. This is already the sum that can further improve Dars' financial sustainability, which has so far unnecessarily upset the government coalition over vignettes and European funds. As far as we can monitor, Dars has already managed to lower bid prices in some projects through a revised tendering system. I'm sure the minister and the government will do everything they can to keep Darsu going. We regret that we do not have a mechanism in this act to bind the Government to achieving lower prices. Today, the government representative here can only promise us that he will do everything in his power to make the annual plan rational. Unfortunately, the public procurement system has an impact, as the text of the annual plan shows, on the completion deadline for individual sections of the motorway, such as in the case of sections of the motorway via Rebrunice in Primorska and the section in Dolenjska. We are very concerned that these sections are marked with a star with the sentence: "The conditions for the execution of works and deadlines are completed in time for public procurement procedures." Which means there's a conditioner written here, if there is. We suggest that these remarks in the text be released to make a commitment that the deadline must be respected. At the same time, we would also like to draw attention to the Drazenci - Gruškovje motorway section project, which should have the highest priority from the new projects in this plan, as this will complete the European route through Slovenia in its entirety. In this plan we should write down the exact hands for this, until when the documentation will be produced, when the construction will take place, and when the highway between Drazenci and Gruškov will be open for transport. In the plan between maintenance items and highway renewal there is no item for the removal of existing toll stations in Slovenia, we believe that these are not such complicated demolition facilities, within 61 million euros, as far as it is intended to restore motorways, there could certainly be funds for the demolition of at least one toll station per year to reduce the congestion and prevent any traffic with blue lights. Of course, this raises the question if, by chance, the coalition quietly does not yet insist that the prisoners return to the toll stations. We believe that taking into account some of our comments, the annual plan could be even better.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The text is by Franci Kek on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! While we will agree with the proposed annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways for this year, we would like to draw attention to the better, more transparent implementation of these plans, in particular the more cost-effective implementation of these plans. While it is a fact that Slovenia is in a very difficult situation at the moment, even because of the freezing of European funds, not to mention the current economic situation, we expect the minister to have different ways of implementing the annual development and re-establishing motorways than he has been before. I have asked the Minister of Transport myself several times when he expects the completion of the Slovenian motorway cross. After his testimony, there are also motorway sections of Pluska - Ponikve - Hrastje, Peračica - Podtabor, Pesnica - Zrkovska - Ptujska on the main highway cross. According to the Minister, the construction of the missing section on the lower motorway leg is foreseen for December 2009, but that deadline is not expected to be reached. Some procurement procedures are expected to be delayed, a very difficult technical route and difficulties in obtaining land and other construction properties, and are expected to make the performance of works significantly more difficult. In fact, I expect the Minister of Transport to do everything he can to make the annual plan a reality. He's never been before. And not only did the hands keep falling away, but the price of completion has grown unreasonably. It is high time that such practice was discontinued. So, Minister, we support the plan, but we also want the realization. In the past, many interests, both Darsa’s performers and the Government, have worked in the realization of interests that did not serve the interests of those to whom the motorways were intended, but things have been quite different. Please take the initiative to implement the plan that you have presented.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Anton Urh has the word on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u20	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Transport is fundamental to development in each country. As well for our country, since the construction of a highway network, of course, must not overlook other categories of roads, inter alia, in a social sense makes it possible to increase the social, social and other mobility of our citizens. At the same time, it is important that we be aware of pronounced environmental interventions, and we must not ignore the road safety problems that daily news reminds us of. In front of us is the text of the 2009 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways, EUR 689,65 million. Of this, EUR 542.63 million is earmarked for construction and renovation and EUR 294.5 million for debt servicing. And how will these enormous financial resources be provided? The annual plan is based on the provision of VAT, credit, international financial institutions and foreign credits, from bonds and credits for concession fees, additional funds and other resources. In order to ensure smooth implementation of this annual plan, it is also necessary to adopt a new agreement and guarantee law for the construction of motorway sections, which is also the point of treatment at this meeting, amounting to €329.73 million. In short, it takes a lot of money to transfer 56.9 km of motorways in 2009, to continue construction on 24.8 km of highways, to complete final work at 85.5 km of sections and to start construction on 1.4 km of highways. At first glance, we certainly like the annual programme, whose goals we hope will be realized. At the time of reading this annual plan, however, we are asking the question of the time of acceptance, namely in June 2009, and the annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways is being adopted for 2009. Therefore, we ask Members of the DeSUS whether it is even a reasonable summer that the adoption of this act has been delayed or is merely a formality, and the implementation of these works is already under way. The usual stages of the adoption of acts involving annual programmes are to be considered and adopted before the year to which they relate, but not as we are now witnessing, with a half-year delay. Let them get a little more complicated and the annual road development and renewal plan for 2009 will be at our desks on parliamentary holidays. I mean, this should be true, this observation, as a warning, kind of a comment on the time-consuming adoption of the necessary acts. Members of the DeSUS will contribute to the adoption of the Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways in the hope and expectation that the promised parts of the motorways will truly be put on the market, that they will, above all, be successful and will carry out all the necessary work that will contribute to the greater mobility of our citizens and to the safer driving of all road users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Srečko Friend has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u22	Dear Minister, distinguished President, colleagues and colleagues! The motorways are very important for Slovenia, especially because we are a flowing, transit country and I believe that there is no one in this hall who will press the button against this Annual Development Plan and the reconstruction of the highway for 2009, although a little late, as we have heard. We should have gotten this supplement sooner if we wanted to do something serious about it. It is also important to stress certain open questions, which are self-inflicted by the answer, which I would like to ask the minister a few questions. I believe that he takes seriously the legality of monitoring his mission and his functions and the legality and the concern that funds will be spent as best as possible should lead to this work. Practice in the past does not show that this was the case. The motorways in Slovenia are almost complete, but we have a construction site near the construction site. The flow is therefore reduced and in the tourist season we even open fictitious construction sites. I want to know where the guarantees are. Who guaranteed the signing of contracts which had numerous annexes and which were changing prices on the second day following the signing of the contract? Who here guarantees quality and how we can ask this contractor whether he really meant it when he went to build a highway in Slovenia. Tunnels, our galleries are collapsing. We don't have real court epilogues, and something was said, the dust went up, everything went down, and we're probably going to get another development plan tomorrow. I believe, however, that even in the budget's rebalancing you did not properly place what you are demanding as a supplement. You are also reminded of this by the Legal and Legal Service. Finally, I would like to know what will happen to the European funds that are blocked. One of the main sources for financing and completing highway construction is this money from Europe. Will you, Madam Minister, come back to the National Assembly tomorrow morning to ask for new debts when we find that we have not collected enough money to service the credits already opened? I would like you to say this here today, not only to me, but also to other fellow Members of Parliament. If we do, we'll take this expense to the citizens twice. First of all, because we're going to encourage them to pay their toll. And secondly, when we find out that this tolling has raised less money and that we have to reopen this public debt wave in some way. The third thing I'm curious about is that you're the Minister of Transport, you probably know that state roads are in a catastrophically bad state. And I would like to draw attention from this place when we introduce new vineyards, more expensive and they will bring you, according to your words and your calculations, less money into the state treasury and thus actually open a new hole in financing existing leases once we do so, we will also increase the burden of state roads. And that will increase the mortality rate. Let me warn you, Minister, that on Slovenian roads he dies annually for one class of children. State roads are in a catastrophic state and we haven't invested almost anything in this infrastructure in ten years. If this reduces traffic safety, I would also like to say who will be responsible. That'd be right. Statistics are not lying, and we will soon have an accurate set of these sad statistical databases, and I would not like to talk only about the insatiable budget of highway construction, but we are not talking about liability, quality, and contractual responsibilities of operators. And I don't want the minister to say anything about how he thinks to fix those who are guilty of not having quality highway sections today. In the end, I would like to stress this. The Slovenian national party warns for years and years that the heavier transit cargo, the ecologically disputed cargo, really needs to be diverted to the railways somehow. We haven't done anything in this area either. With only one session, which could also be correspondence, on the phone, we could do that if we wanted to. Slovenia is only a water catchment area, if we look at the ecological, very controversial and what is rolling on our roads you can see if you stop for coffee at one of the highway stations, and you will see what foreign carriers are carrying on our highways, what dangerous cargo. And I think that national interest should also be protected in this context. In short, the transport policy strategy in Slovenia is missing and not only is it enough that we are always coming to the National Assembly with some requests, about the third car section, but that we are developing a comprehensive strategy to look also at the perspective of time, what this will bring to citizens and citizens and start developing other resources that Slovenia has. In the railway area, the Minister-designate, two years after the adoption of the guarantee law, which, by the way, is bigger than the entire highway programme, we have done nothing. We didn't even spend the euro. However, the funds already granted from Brussels will have to be returned because they have not even provided their own participation because of their own laziness. It's sad, but it's real. I'll ask you to speak with me when you have the floor to talk about it. In doing so, I would like to point out that we fully trust you and believe that you know what you are doing and that tomorrow, we will also discuss how we will maintain state roads and how we will proceed with a thorough reconstruction of the rail system. Last but not least, it would be right to say that many citizens and citizens are expected that you will look into the past and see who is responsible for these "slampariums" that took place in the so-called construction mafia on highway crosses in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here comes the debate on the annual plan. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u24	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, welcome to all present! The Ministry of Transport is, of course, an ungrateful ministry. Ungrateful because it is an extremely powerful building lobby in our country, as well as an inheritance. I am pleased to have two former transport ministers in Parliament, Mr Žerjev and the Preseknik, who will be able to contribute with their knowledge and experience to the debate and to the work of this ministry now. I think that the annual road development and renewal plan should also have the title "and fast roads" because the difference between the highway and the fast road is very great. With such a growing traffic, I now know this famous fast road across the Ribnica and tell you it's a disaster. Injury cancer, of course, in all major investments, are public procurement or tendering. If we don't do something here, then it's gonna happen the way it does. Now we see a tunnel on the copier, 18 million more expensive construction, I hope with some guarantees that it will be quality-made, but the complaint will keep the whole thing going. Fast road Razdrto-Vipava, 10 kilometers long, we have been building seven years because three years of construction on this section remained due to the choice of tunnel contractor, three years. Let me tell you, the Solkan Railway Bridge was built in 1905. The stones were laid on the beach, numbered, and brought to Solkan. In 17 days, they built the world's largest stone arch, without elevators, and I don't know what techniques. We've been building this piece of fast road for seven years. Knowing today that there is a lack of large investment, large construction sites and that knowledge, technology is available, I think payments are provided and so on. I see no reason why, let's say, in this case, we would write the intended transfer of traffic in July. Whether this is 1 July or 30 July is 30 days apart. Not to mention the Milky Way Bridge again. When the construction is completed, it is likely that a more precise date can be set and, unless it is in a position to do so, unless it is because of force majeure, what I know what it may be in the new building, earthquake or something, there is no excuse for the backlog. Furthermore, we are disturbed by the marking of this fast road. In one part there are blue tablets, in one part green. The recommended speed is 100 kilometers. I'm the mayor, and I don't know if I'm going to drive 120, whether I pay the fine or not, what if I'm just a stranger? So there's a lot of confusion, and there's no reason not to be able to fix it. I am glad that despite all the problems that are in the economy and elsewhere, this annual plan for the development and renewal of highways and fast roads is here. Just tell us where it's going to be and how it's going to be. And at the end of 2009, we're just going to have those 57 kilometers of new roads. But if we could go far back, Ireland was not putting money into this infrastructure, but into knowledge and technology of high added value and living differently today. And we're building these fast roads to really go wild out there, kill ourselves, and allow transit, which we should, as we said before, take to the railways. I wish you good luck with this plan and the Minister below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is Mira Friday. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! The minister here today spoke precisely about the miles of the highway and the prices of building Slovenian motorways and this is indeed a sad story. On the one hand, we have a lot of money, on the other hand, a few kilometers of highways, and this is also, in my opinion, the central problem of building highways in Slovenia. Some objective circumstances need to be highlighted here. If we drive from the Slovenian border to Budapest, we see - the highway itself is a plane, in between only one viaduct or two, and in Slovenia we have such a configuration of the terrain that requires tunnels requiring viaducts and this construction is appropriately priced, but not for as much as the construction was auctioned and as much as the construction of highways is expensive in Slovenia. If it were not so much money from the construction of motorways in private pockets, and if it were not for the creation in Slovenia of this highway kleptomanian tycoon elite, then there would be a third development axis in Koroška today and the Koroška region from Slovenia would not be completely cut off. In my previous term, I have written a question to the then Minister, a similar question to the current Minister of Transport in this mandate, but this is why a black list of bad performers in the area of highway construction is not introduced in Slovenia. Minister Patrick Vlačič told me that this was possible, but this trial must still go through the court and this trial is very long. However, in no case have we yet established this legal option, and we have the case of Golovec, and we have the case of Šentvid and so on. I think that in this way these bad performers could be eliminated and, on the other hand, the construction of Slovenian roads would be costed accordingly. Neighbouring Italy, we know that it has major mafia problems, both non-aplenic and Sicily, and has little success in fighting the Mafia. In Slovenia we have problems with this adultery of tycoon elite, just yesterday we also had some media pump and some media show that will obviously continue. Among this Slovenian tycoon elite, there are also companies or individuals in the area of construction companies that build Slovenian motorways. And what do the Italian mafia have in common, which I mentioned, and the Slovenian tycoon elite. The thing is, no one can hurt them, they're untouchable. And they also share the fact that they have their links at the top of politics or Slovenian politics has created this tycoon elite, an untouchable tycoon elite, which has in some way acquired immunity and has grown over our heads in recent years. They've become one country in a country that we're simply struggling with. We recently read in Del, in the Saturday annex, a large title for Bad Road and idiots. Maybe a better address for Bad Road and criminals. Bad roads are more responsible for criminals or criminal construction than for idiots. Or maybe it's the right address. The idiots are all of us who've been allowing all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Zanoškar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u28	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am one of those who realize that the construction of highways and the entire road network is one of the basic, elementary content that concerns our country, among others. If we want to imagine the comprehensive development of our country, it is certainly one of the basic visions. That is why we are so saddened by the fact that the financial resources earmarked for the construction of highways and other state roads are shrinking from year to year. We are always kind of sad because we know that this elemental part of the content of our country will not be implemented and realized in such a way that we can get to an orderly situation as soon as possible. We are always opposed to the fact that the rebalans of state budgets are shrinking in the work relating to the reconstruction and construction of motorways and roads. This 2009 annual programme has come to the table and is fully acceptable, although it often imposes on it the idea that a new strategy for the construction of motorways in Slovenia is urgently needed. Last but not least, if we look at highway construction, this is probably one of the best social programmes, social security programmes, because by opening new projects new jobs would also be opened up and then we would no longer be discussing unemployment benefits and so on, because we could also overcome the crisis. I know that coordination is very difficult in times of economic and financial crisis, but we should be aware that this is one of the important content and that this could also solve a lot of other things. Today we are talking about the highway construction programme, but, as has already been mentioned several times, we must not forget the existing state roads, as well as the local roads, which are failing very quickly. If we wanted to see the difference between the countries, it would be right to come to Koroška, best of all from the Austrian side; when it starts hitting you fairly, you are already in Slovenia. As a member of the National Assembly, I am saddened. At times, you may also be blushing at the shame of how our country in its north cannot arrange roads in such a way that they are decent, cultural, that they may feel good when they ride on them. But it's completely different. Therefore, there should be a great deal more attention to maintaining and restoring these existing roads. Last but not least, when it comes to what has already been mentioned today, if we want to achieve a coherent and comprehensive development of Slovenia, then there can be no countries, there can be no peripheral countries where these roads do not take them in such a way as to satisfy and satisfy or give conditions for the equivalent development of all other regions. And that's the 3rd and 4th development axis. When we talk about this and about the previous government, which promised to start implementing the 3rd development axis in 2008, which has been a while ago, there has not been much change to date, then we believe that the next budgets and the next strategy will clearly define all of these development axes that will connect these countries, which also, due to the lack of regulation, remain somehow at the turn of development. This is not the fault of Korosci and not of the Belokrans, and this is probably the fault of the complete general strategy for the production of the whole connecting motorway cross. Of course, we expect these contents, which we have already heard today, to come into these documents in the following year, and we want something to move in particular. At the same time, I wish you a lot of skills to be able to get money or even to get credit, because I think that investing in such infrastructure is absolutely justified and also eligible loans. We are often saddened by the fact that all these projects that are being implemented are often the result of what colleague Petek has already talked about, some affairs where we can see unclean transactions and see that somehow money is leaking to where it should not go. I have confidence in you, and we probably all expect you to be very explicit when it comes to public procurement when it comes to selecting the best performers. Not least when it comes to control and control the construction of motorways, when it comes to additional works, which we talk about a lot, but not least when it comes to highway maintenance. You know, sometimes I get the feeling that highways are designed for maintenance. They put prisons through which it is very difficult for us to come here and there, and sometimes I feel that they are only being placed because they can in some way enforce their financial situations when presented by the Ministry of Transport. So there's something you should say about that, too. Maintenance - fast, up-to-date and when necessary, then: let the roads be for us who need them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is "Silven Tiny." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister! I do not think there is any need to question the Minister about the implementation of decisions on the construction of motorways, especially when we all show an interest in completing the national highway programme as soon as possible. Of course, we are concerned about the very expensive construction that we are being accompanied all the time, but we do not want to do that, we do not know whether we are incompetent negotiators or not. Extortion by Europe, which prevents us from building the Slivnica-Drazenci motorway due to vignettes, is only one of the warnings that the Government must insist on decisions for which it has support in the National Assembly, as well as in the Slovenian people. The integrity and true direction of the Minister, which will also ensure a sustainable financial situation for the development and completion of the motorway cross, is necessary and there is no need to question the achievement of the objectives set. Maintenance of motorways is a cancer wound in Slovenia, as we see, the highway is barely opened and is being repaired, so that we can ask about the quality of construction while at the same time the traffic flow and dissatisfaction of drivers are increasing. I believe that you are able to eliminate this inconvenience and have further enhanced your trust. That's why you have my support.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. László Göncz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. I would not like to repeat what has already been said, but I would like to point out that despite certain dilemmas that have already been mentioned, I support the 2009 annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways, because I believe that this is a project where there is no way back, but only forward. I am aware of the difficulties, especially in today's time, but of this project, and to some extent I also understand certain corrections that have been introduced into this programme. Of course, the question really arises whether this proposal, which is now before us, can be realized this way. I would like this to be the case, even because I know from my own experience what it is for every area of the construction of such infrastructure, although we must be honest to admit that the so-called suburban highway is not the right one or the lack of a runway, but it has nevertheless greatly contributed to both the development and general infrastructure of this Central European area, so there is no doubt that this needs to be supported. While I have already mentioned the withdrawal zone, I think it is important that you also mention further activities in this area in the preparation of the project documentation, I know that it will be time-consuming, but it is somewhere in this programme, and I definitely welcome this. The same is true for the resting places of trucks, as we also see in such matters that it is difficult to get even less traffic sections of the motorway to certain petrol stations, services, etc., so clearly this issue is also very important. I'd like to mention two more things. One question here is, as a layman, the question is, of course, that this programme is still relatively ambitious, and the question is, the rail network. Is it also predicted at such a pace and at such a pace as you have announced it somewhere or is it comparable to that trend that exists here in this program? Another issue that is not directly related to the content, but more to the fact that in the short-term liquidity of the amounts that are planned, 50 million of the funds foreseen are also for the Beltinci-Lendava section of cohesion funds. As far as I'm concerned, this amount has already arrived, so it's no longer questionable. I think this text came about before this money arrived in the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, I stress, despite the dilemmas that this is actually a hundred percent possible, I support this annual road map. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Minister with colleagues, Mr. President! The problem of the annual highway development plan is very attractive and current every year. Attractive because too much work or decision or involve lobbyists in the construction of the highway programme, different types of actors around it are not looking at how state money will be spent and how it would be done as much as possible, but how individual lobbyists will have as much profits and profits as possible. Today it has been said several times to open the highway in a month to repair it. So many repairs and so much congestion as is on the freeway through the Trojans, which is just made on two viaducts and so on, is actually impossible to describe and nonstop something is closed. They were angry, and one of the Members had previously wondered who had such power and influence, probably not the opposition, but the former coalitions. In short, a lot of wrong choices. The trojans would sit without these viaducts and so on are much cheaper to carry out, but the lobbying was obviously too strong and the politicians dropped a lot of money into their pockets, which today appears through various companies abroad and so on and so on and have agreed to do so. We don't know much yet, but eventually, I know that. The Minister is not now, and I would expect the annual programme to highlight what is most problematic in a given year. See, the Prime Minister received a letter, and also a minister, from the mayor of Podlohnika, where he begs to agree on the adoption of the State Spatial Plan on the continuation of the motorway from the Drazenians to the border crossing of Gruškova. So, this annual plan doesn't even have the means to buy these lands. They are asking that they do so in order to redeem the land to Gruškov in order to adopt this plan at least by December of this year and actually put the intervention into construction in the following year. This is actually the last section in this connection, and you can only think of what will happen when the section from Slivnica to Draženci is opened to stop everything there, and on top of this, the state road G1/9 is run over by highway. This is totally unacceptable for the people who live there. Two days ago, I was visiting one of those who live on this road, they don't even want to or they didn't build a firewall, and that's going to mean -- already, that's impossible, actually -- at the opening of this part of the highway, life will be totally unbearable there. The mayor predicts, not to threaten, but to say what will happen, that in the middle of the tourist season there will be the closure of the G1/9 state road. There will be this disobedience, but only - not to anger someone, but because it is simply impossible to endure it. And in this annual highway construction program, unfortunately, you avoid this and do not get rid of it, or you do not actively pursue the solution to this problem. This is one of the most crucial and problematic parts of the construction of the highway programme at this time and this should actually come first. Not least, when meetings are convened to resolve this problem, the minister does not come to this or send someone else, but then he cannot give relevant answers. In short, Minister, I would like to warn you today, [[..]] [[a sign for the end of the debate.]] when it is time to move things around in this area so that there will not be the biggest problems in this area during the biggest tourist season. [[....]] Well, for a while, people can take it, I agree, but they need to be told. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Peace in the hall, please! Wait a minute. Janko Weber has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. In the opening part of my debate, I would like to draw attention once again to the progress of the adoption of the Annual Development Plan and the renewal of motorways in 2009 on the Transport Committee. I have already pointed out in the Committee's report that the procedure has been in full compliance with parliamentary practice, which has been in force with Article 118 of the Rules of Procedure since 2002. One of the last examples of such parliamentary practice is the 2008 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways, where the process was conducted in an identical manner. In fact, the Government forwarded the 2008 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways to the National Assembly 13. 3. However, in accordance with Article 118 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it has replaced the material with new material on 25. 4. 2008, and the call itself was already 24. 4. I would like to point out, therefore, that it is extremely important to respect parliamentary practice when working in Parliament, that derogations lead to ambiguities in the procedure for the adoption of an individual act under consideration by the National Assembly. Of course, it is very important that we all understand this, both the opposition and the position. And if I make this comparison: in the 2008 Annual Plan, the opposition was constructive and engaged in discussions with substantive proposals and allowed for the adoption of an annual programme as soon as possible, which is extremely important for the development and maintenance of motorways. However, if the opposition intended to prevent the adoption of the annual plan by procedure, of course it means that it is not in its interest to start investments as soon as possible, but rather to prevent and delay them. This is a significant difference in this part between 2008 and 2009. With regard to the content of the 2009 Annual Programme for the Development and Reconstruction of Motorways, however, I would like to point out that the completion of the motorway network in the Republic of Slovenia is approaching and that this annual programme is being adapted accordingly. Thus, in many sections these works are concluded and we are starting work on 1.4 km, which means that the real national programme is slowly running out. It will certainly be necessary to work extremely intensively to prepare a new annual programme or resolution of the National Roadbuilding Programme, which will also allow for the continuation of works in 2010 on all those sections that will not yet be completed. In doing so, it is extremely important that all these sections be placed in the room in a timely manner, so that I also welcome a number of sections for which, in 2009, the competent minister will take the initiative to initiate the process of drafting the State's site plan. Among them is the improvement of the Šmarje-Sap highway connection, and we begin to solve the extremely big problem that arises on the main road when we encounter the daily loading of 18 000 vehicles a day and there are very serious congestions both in the morning tips and in the afternoon when people come back from work. The situation will continue to deteriorate in this section due to the new neighbourhood, so that this measure is extremely important in the annual programme and, of course, I particularly welcome it. With regard to the other facts in the annual programme, however, I believe that it should also be noted that Dars paid a higher concession fee than the planned one in the period 2004 to 2008 – a total of EUR 143.7 million more than the planned one. Of course, the reason for the higher payment is mainly in Dars' higher toll revenues due to faster traffic growth than planned and the faster opening of added toll roads. After the introduction of vinjets, of course, this increased traffic is no longer known in the field of tolling. In fact, many who buy wine are simply using the highway several times and, of course, this impact of increased toll and increased concession fees in vineyards is not possible. This is a very serious problem, as we find that the annual traffic on our highways is increasing dramatically and that it is increasingly difficult to maintain the highway. That is why a number of delays are also, because one is when you plan to construct a highway that is to be expected, and the other is, of course, if this traffic increases substantially and therefore the burdens are so much higher and therefore the maintenance interventions are so much more frequent. It is therefore extremely important that preparations for a change in the toll system, which will allow for free movement of tolls and provide more means for maintenance as well as for the continuation of the construction of new toll sections or for the extension of existing tolls, should also be greatly accelerated in the coming period. If we estimate that somehow by 2008 the value of the motorway programme is around € 5.4 billion, and if we know that it is waiting for us in the next period, if we want to build development axes as well, a new investment cycle of €2.4 billion, then it is extremely important that these resources for maintaining and continuing the construction of new sections and development axes be repaired by introducing a new toll system. I therefore expect the Ministry to work actively in this area this year and thus improve if we can also say a financial picture of the sustainability of the construction of the highway system in the Republic of Slovenia. These are the problems that we have taken over from previous years, and, of course, we also want to tackle and bring them effectively, including this extremely important national project into sustainability, in particular financial sustainability. And given that we are in an extremely difficult financial and economic situation at this moment, as the whole world is, it is also justified that this annual programme is closed by borrowing loans, so that the own resources of the budget, if so called, can be allocated to help the economy, to preserve jobs. Of course, there would have been so much more space if it had not been for the years 2004 to 2008 that they owed so much, i.e. an enormous reduction in the budget for the construction of motorways started there somewhere from 2005 to 2008, and we can see that for 578.9 million euros the budget was less earmarked for the construction of motorways than was planned in the Resolution on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways. In part, this problem has been mitigated by the return of value added tax, which was paid to Dars at some point in time to Dars at EUR 337.9 million, so that the difference of some EUR 241 million that Darsa would not have had to take at a time of exceptional economic growth and today, for example, in the Republic of Slovenia's budget, would certainly have had at least EUR 241 million more opportunities for economic action than if it had not been so that Dars owed himself at a time of exceptional economic growth. These are extremely important starting points for truly such further economic development in Slovenia, which, of course, enables the construction of motorways, as well as, of course, for the soundest possible finances and the economy we need during this period. I am sure that these investments, which will be made in the field of motorways this year, will also contribute to mitigating or increasing economic growth, but, of course, it will be really necessary, once again, to do everything to put new routes into space as soon as possible and to release the new investment cycle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is Bell Lach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u38	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary. Undoubtedly, transport infrastructure is very important for economic development, in particular those areas that do not lie at the highway or at major roads. It is commendable that our highways have quite a lot of connections, that they are already built and that some connecting or connecting roads will be built, which will also allow for direct development, as we know that the construction of state roads is very nourished with us. However, [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u39	Comrade Lach, just a moment: can you turn off the microphone? Does the microphone even work?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u40	It's working.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u42	However, I am afraid that there will be a need to build a third lane immediately or immediately after the construction of this highway cross, because we are already finding that traffic is so increased in some parts that the third lane is already needed. As freight traffic on our roads increases abnormally, as we know that about 90% of foreign trucks are on our roads, and this is likely to increase due to the position Slovenia has, it would be necessary to accelerate efforts to transfer this freight transport to the railways. Of course, in the situation we have, it is unlikely that this will work because we have a poor rail system and we need to update it urgently, to invest a lot in it. It's probably not going to work fast. I therefore believe that it is necessary to plan as soon as possible a place where the trans-shipment from the motorway or from the roads to the railways is to be carried out, and therefore there is also a need for spatial acts, whose preparation and adoption is a very long process. And if we go right now, it's gonna take a couple of years to get to the first projects. It may also be necessary to increase the toll for freight traffic because it will increase abnormally, and thus to acquire some means for so much maintenance that we have on our roads, because this freight traffic is the one that is most damaging to our roads. I also miss the programme of construction of state roads, because after the construction of the highway, some of the main roads or the third development axis, for which projects are being prepared very slowly, we do not know where the third development axis is at present, at least I do not know what stage the state location plan is. We haven't figured out where we're going yet. I think we should set priorities for the third development axis, which are necessary, whether our interest is to get to the Croatian motorways in the location of Bosiljevo as soon as possible. It should also be borne in mind where the financing for the construction of this facility is provided. So he's waiting for us in the future. When Slovenia has a great opportunity to pass through Slovenia a lot of this cargo, a lot of transport, this opportunity must be taken advantage of. I therefore welcome the idea of the logistics platform of Slovenia that we should stop this transport or this transport from having some added value. I think it's a very good idea, but if we're going to start doing this, there's still a lot to do. I think it is necessary to simplify the preparation and adoption of spatial acts first. We know what the procedures for state spatial acts are, and we probably will need a lot on municipal spatial acts, and we know that the UNPs are now in production, which is supposed to be in place for several years, that is to say, in just a few years from now. I therefore think that time will be very important here and that all these procedures must be substantially reduced and more operationally operated in all ministries as well. It is for infrastructure projects of this state that the Ministry of Transport is the initiator, as far as I know. And I expect that these initiatives will be largely, and then also through the Ministry of Environment and Space, to determine or shorten these procedures, to adopt these spatial acts as soon as possible, to produce project documentation in parallel and to provide financial resources, of course. The task is enormous, but of course we need to think ahead, in due time. I urge that we all do this together as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Certainly, this decision, which is prepared, can be supported. But it makes sense to talk about the problems we have in building motorways, not to mention putting new development axes, whose spines are supposed to be fast roads or highways, into our space. We've been talking about the highway for years. Well, slowly these motorways will be built, and once they are built, we will find that they have already become too narrow, that we will need to think and act on the need for additional investments to release traffic along these highways. We are talking about the highway cross, and as I follow this story, it seems to me that we are left with only and only a cross, for the minister, for Dars, for the National Assembly, for the users, and most of all for those who are not close to this highway cross, which are in the rest of Slovenia, in settlements that do not have a good connection to the highway cross. Believe me, I know what I'm saying, because I check the road every day, just like you, the flow of our roads. We've talked many times about developmental axes, about 3. a, b, I don't know how many we've been strung up, but here things actually stand. I will not talk about the mistakes of past years, which go beyond the past mandate, but in the past mandate, the funding has been substantially changed, and we owe our generations in advance. And now we're just watching or thinking about how to finance what we're missing, that is, connecting settlements, space, where we don't have a highway right now. In this way, I want to illustrate that it is not easy, that this is a complex case when we are talking about putting into space and then building, if we take away loans and ways of financing this construction, that it is a very demanding, complex system that needs to be completed in a way that will be faster. In the previous term, the Prime Minister announced that the 3rd development axis would be started to build, better said, shovels, already in 2008, and that there would be no clean shovels in this area, nothing had happened, the road was not placed in the space and it would take several years to build. I regret that, even during this period of these six, seven months of the new mandate, there is no significant progress in this area and that, with the questions posed by the Minister responsible, initiatives will also need to continue in this mandate and seek a solution that will put these development axes or the third development axis, particularly the northern part that I know best, into space. I know that changes are being made to legislation that would allow faster space to be placed, but it will have to be speeded up, a time of relentless haste, and economists warn us that there are significant problems with existing infrastructure, whether it be road or rail, but today, because we are not talking about rail, I will actually avoid it. When I talked about investment in roads, highways, this highway program, the development plan, I can't get past what I've been giving in the introduction, that users also feel problems, or that users of these motorways feel many times in traffic jams, and more times when they are involved and excluded from these motorways. I think that the decisions on where to put the so-called exit or the entrance to the highway in the form of a baby and where the diamond form was wrong. In some cases, they're very missed. For example, the exit and entrance to the highway in Arja village is the so-called diamond connection. It is becoming dangerous, and mainly causes congestion, similar to that in Šentrupert, so complete this northern Slovenia, as we like to call it, Koroška, Savinjsko, Šaleško, is unable to get on the highway normal connection, i.e. to a child where they can place, place and rank and find a way out so that there are actually no congestions. In both cases, we have a very unfortunate exit from the highway in a diamond form, which is also causing further discomfort and slowly becoming dangerous. So the investment is necessary, the annual plan is as it is prepared. As I have already said in the introduction, it is intended to be supported primarily by the continuation of construction, so that reconstruction continues. However, it will have to be very intense, much faster than before, not to say much more courageously, to plan and also to carry out additional activities that will enable all the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia to have about the same development situation, i.e. as regards the possibility of further development, regarding the link to the highway cross, that there will really not be a cross at the end of this motorway, just a cross that we are all experiencing and there is no great progress.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you. Mrs. Župevc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. It is true that modern transport infrastructure is at the heart of the country's development. But it is also true that time and money are not on our side because we have no time and no money. We're always running out of both. Today the third development axis has already been mentioned. We have recently hosted a transport minister in Trbovje, unfortunately the environment minister has not had time, and I must say that at that time we Members coming from the wider area of Zasavje experienced a kind of cold shower. For a long time, there has been a very wide and in-depth discussion of the third development axis. My colleagues have already mentioned something about this, and we have found today that there is no progress. We can say: and then it was all quiet. Why did we experience a kind of sobriety? In fact, I am grateful to the Minister of Transport and the representatives of the Ministry of the Environment and Space that they did not accuse them of telling us what they were really like. But we have a lot of questions here. Why? As has already been said, there are areas in Slovenia that have somehow been covered by such good transport connections. The wider area of Zasavje is certainly such a section, such an area. And if you want to come from Zasavje anywhere, you need about an hour, depending on when you're going. And this debate on the third development axis, which has been kind of fading lately, seems to me to be becoming more debated about traffic points, about connections, how to get from point A to point B the fastest and the cheapest. But this is not a development axis. What is a developmental axis project anyway? The aim of the project was to develop the outermost regions in the future, as we said, including Koroška, Savinjska, Dolenjska, Zasavje, Posavje and many others. These are developmental axes. Why? Because the reason why these regions are lagging behind is also because they do not have good transport links with the outside world, that development cannot come to them and there can be no development if there is no good transport link. And what is the key question of the 3rd development axis today: is the 3rd development axis today a political illusion or is it a reality? I think it's right and fair to answer that question. Are we going to crush the development axes just on transport links, on sections from point A to point B, from point B to point C, and so on, are we really going to talk about development axes? Studies specifically designed for Zasavje, the first study, included all aspects such as developmental, environmental, transport and not listing which others. So they have taken into account a number of aspects that speak for development. Therefore, the studies have assessed that it is important and that it is crucial and that it is justified, and this is the key to going, say, this 3rd development axis over Zasavje. Then came various lobbying, and the 3rd development axis no longer passed the Zasavje. Different studies have been carried out, with different parameters, which have shown that such axis is not justified over Zasavje. Today I will not be rooting for miles of highways, for miles of state roads and so on, but I think the debate on the 3rd development axis at some strategic level is very important. Of course, we don't have time or money, but we're gonna have to find some of this as soon as possible. The last time in our debate was a very good thing, and I think it is important to mention it. There are areas, as has already been said, which have a problem with traffic connections, how to get out as quickly as possible, how to connect and also the economy has difficulty getting in. Then they have other ideas, they have other projects, like energy. There's a problem here, too. Last time my fellow Member said, "Well, the state of energy doesn't want it, okay. Give us the development axis to attract other types of economies and so on. We won't have that either." So the question is, what remains in these regions? It's not a question of what else big ones have, what big ones have, what small ones have. I think it's very important that we answer this question. As you know, first of all, it was chosen, let's say specifically for Zasavje, so-called Western or Savoy route, then we were at the midpoint, and I want to say that with every new government, with every year coming, some different decisions have been made, of course, at the political level. It seems to me that when we talk about the third development axis, we all want it, but let's be honest about whether it's a reality or an illusion. And it's right that we know that. Are we just talking about transport connections that are of course important, or are we just talking about roads from point A to point B or are we talking about development now? Are we going to take into account space as quickly as possible, as cheaply as possible? That's the point of how we get from here to there as quickly as possible and as cheaply as possible. Will we also take into account other aspects, as has already been said, environmental, economic, if you want, social; all of these are aspects that I think it is important to take them into account when we continue to talk about development axes, if we are all talking about development. Development is much broader than taking a road from the village to the city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Croat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. The consideration of today's topic is certainly one of the more important topics that we deal with each year in the National Assembly, especially here I think of those regions that do not yet have highways, as well as those where work is non-stop, etc. Earlier, from the introduction itself, when Mr Minister gave some additional explanation, he said that highways would be built from now on only by debt. Look, I'm a little surprised and I find it hard to believe that you're following the practice from the previous mandate, that the highways are built with debt, but you've gone one step further, actually you've taken all the money out of the budget lines and now it's actually building with debt. This surprises me in particular for this reason, if we remember in the previous term when one of the Members of the SD is one of the Members, I will just say, Mr Swickl was roaring about the Argentine model of building and rebuilding highways, that this is not appropriate and that this is not sustainable. Look what happened now. The budget lines also took the money that it was, and now highways are being built with debt. But just so we're clear, I don't have any problems with that. I have a problem with this duality, which is now visible here. On the other hand, it's the adoption of this act, and every year we talk about these things in the middle of the year -- I think it's too late in any case; it was too late and it's too late now. We're halfway through the year, and we're talking about a plan for what we're going to build this year. I think that such an act should be on the agenda at the beginning of the year, where we might really be talking in a much deeper and perhaps even more realistic way. We all seem to agree with this proposed act. I do not believe that any of the Members and Members of Parliament will vote against, or otherwise, that they will support, because we all need these motorways. Restoration of these motorways is probably necessary, and the question is whether, to this extent and in these terms, what is happening now. But the most important thing in this matter is realisation. Will there actually be a realization of this plan to rebuild and build highways? I don't believe all the projects will be realized. The numbers that we talked about before or listened to, as much as EUR 508 million, I myself believe that this is a lot of money for what is written in this plan. Essentially too much. I believe that with a good choice of performers, real procedures could reduce this number from 500 to 300, 400 million euros. Because when we compare the construction of motorways in Slovenia and the construction of motorways abroad, we see that there are significant differences. When foreign operators apply for the invitation to tender, prices are significantly lower and then there is someone who says that Slovenian companies should do this at all costs. I don't agree with that. I say, make those who are cheaper, of course with certain references, and of course, that in the end there is true quality. From this place, as far as the highway itself is concerned, the cross of the highway is absolutely important. On the other hand, public roads should also be given equal attention. State roads, so we are talking mainly about the reconstruction of these state roads, are somehow nourished. I'll tell you one case. I'm from the Domžale Congregation. Now in the previous year this was foreseen, now I don't know how it's going to be over this balance and so on how it's going to be with the maintenance of this road. So the road between Domžal and Kamnik is terrible. Desperate! For 20 years, 30 years, there hasn't been a euro invested, and you're really driving, really on one very important connecting road, like driving around the country. I appeal to the ministry myself - I now have this opportunity to say this publicly here too - let us do something, let us find some 100,000 euros and restore that road in at least one part, if not all of it this year, and then continue. There's something else I'd like to say about the funds. The funds you have collected from these budget lines and, in fact, the highway cross is now being built by borrowing, exclusively by borrowing. When this concept changed in 2004 - what happened? These measures, which have been envisaged for the construction of motorways, have been redistributed for the reconstruction of these state roads I am talking about. I hope that now that you bring this budget balance, you will not exchange these funds for the reconstruction of state roads without being allocated to some x, y items, perhaps even other ministries. So, I appeal to an absolute highway cross - yes, but let's not forget the state roads, which are also the necessary reconstructions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. The road or highway issue is always a very interesting topic when it comes to the National Assembly, so it is no coincidence that more than half of the Members and Members of the National Assembly have applied for this topic and that we devote 5 hours and 40 minutes to this debate and that we are also extending the topic from the highway programme to the programme of the so-called development axes. Because, after all, we cannot divide roads into highways, state roads, local roads, but it is a very intertwined network that must work together. The motorway cross is practically ending and is in the final stage, with many crosses, as said colleague Kontic. I think we've done a pretty unfortunate job on this project as well. This has been going on for decades if we look at everything there since the road affair in the last century. Also, some of the most difficult projects in the highway cross were planned late. Let's say Black Kal, then Trojans, ribs that haven't been built yet; three of the hardest sections on the highway cross we somehow put into this other part of this plan to build the highway cross. Surely we would have connected Slovenia more quickly if we had put these three projects at the start of the highway cross programme; and we would have connected Slovenia more quickly. Another major problem in the construction of the highway cross - and this also applies to the developmental axes - is the placement of individual routes into the space and then the acquisition of appropriate permits and the production of state-owned location programmes. Consider only the case of Radovljica and Trebnje, or the course of these highways. For 10 to 13 years, it took planners to adopt the national site plan and, as a result, to start construction. Now I hear that not in one place or another are most satisfied with the course of these routes, because only now that the machines have come and started working have seen what these routes are like, because on the map and in the plans it looks very different. My colleague Weber told me, and I also read that 5.4 billion euros have been used for the highway program or for the construction of motorways in Slovenia. These are very high funds. In order to invest in the development axes, in 3.A, 3.B, I hope that it will also come into the plans, so the Dramalje - Šentjur section, and for the fourth development axis two billion and a half euros are expected to be needed for the investment dynamics. So if it goes as well as the highway cross, for a long time, there will be no such developmental axes, especially if they are placed in the space as slowly as the motorways passed Trebnje and Radovljica. I'm not going to avoid planning and building development axes myself. The former government adopted the Resolution on National Development Projects for the period 2007 - 2023 and, among other things, the project of priority state roads on priority development axes, on the 3rd and 4th development axes. For several years we needed the 4th development axis originally planned for disabled, without the Idrian-logic leg of this fourth development axis, and finally the government realized its error and corrected it. However, we have difficulty putting all these development axes into space, so it would be good for the home committee for this area to focus on placing them in the area of these development axes, as well as building or planning these development axes. I think it would be good to discuss this subject with not only the representatives of the Ministry of Transport, perhaps even more so with the representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, whose task is to conduct these procedures. We have already adopted in the National Assembly the Spatial Development Strategy of Slovenia in 2004, where we have also included these development axes in these programmes, in these maps, and we have also adopted the Resolution on Transport Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, which lists all these development axes. This document also contained the 3B development axis, while in some others, as in this resolution, this axis is not. This document may need to be supplemented with this development axis. I come from the Idrian-Church region, where my constituency is, and I have been here for a long time to discuss how to place a key object on the 4th development axis, this is the tunnel between Cerkljanski and Gorenjska. Since the first spatial conference in 2006, three years have passed and we have not yet reached the end. I don't want us to go along the path I've already mentioned in order to take 10 to 13 years to come to a final decision. I will certainly support this program that is ahead of us today. I want to see as soon as possible the completion of the motorway cross, including the financing arrangements or toll system on motorways, so that we do not change the system from one year to the next, from our mandate to the next, in order to obtain a sustainable toll system that will ensure that both the completion of the motorway cross and the resulting financing of the development axes are financed, because for these development axes we will spend half of the money we have put into the highway cross so far, and this is not such a small resource. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u52	Respected and respected! This annual programme to build and rebuild highways is a reflection of some of the real situations we are in. I am sure that each of us, with a number of local interests that he represents in his parliamentary work, would still have a wise idea of what is yet to be added to this programme and the national programme for the construction of motorways as a whole. Unfortunately, we are faced with at least two circumstances: firstly, that the change in tolling in the past has caused us not only to have no fresh resources today to continue building the highway cross, but even to maintain our existing obligations. On the other hand, because of the same decision, we are also faced with the freezing of European funds. And these are the consequences of the decisions of the former government. I am not saying this because I would like to point my finger at the previous government, to point out its guilt in this area, and even less because I would understand it as an alibi or an excuse. This is a fact, and I think that this government has to maneuver within the scope of the possibility, just as we often have committed ourselves to taking counter-crisis measures, because we know that we are simply running out of funds for all our ideas. This gives us an understandable priority to try to complete those sections and subsections that can be completed in 2009. I agree with my colleague Croat, who earlier said that we should face this document at the beginning of the year, when it is possible to plan more ambitiously the construction of highway sections this year. However, the fact is that it took some objective time to see what can be realized in 2009 and properly put into a realistic and feasible plan for this year. The ambition of this government, at least as I understand it, is that the funds provided for in the financial documents are also spent, thus also ensuring the high operationality of the state budget in these acute circumstances. Let me go home in my mind to the Maribor end. In this plan there are several sections, which the Mariborians and the entire northeast Slovenia are very excited about. First of all, this is the completion of the Maribor East Highway. This part is described in the documents as Pesnica-Slovnica at a total length of 20.8 kilometers. I would be happy to hold what this document says, namely that these sections, mainly between the Posnica and Zrkovska cesta and Zrkovsko and Ptujska cesta, will be dedicated to transport in June 2009. We already know today for certain reasons that this transfer will be delayed in July, if not even in August, so that Maribor will again witness large, large congestions during the summer months when it will be burdened with daily transit, and also with tourist flows towards Croatia. In this respect, I would like to remind you that, for known financial reasons, it does not fall out of the priority of any obligation of the Company for Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia to reconstruct the Maribor Ptujska road, which will undoubtedly have a similar new Slovenian Long Village in the coming months. In northeastern Slovenia, however, I think that even in the country as a whole, the higher priority should also be seen as that part of the motorway between Maribor and Zagreb, which we do not yet have in short-term orientations. We know that the annual programme ahead of us today envisions the completion and transmission of traffic in August 2009 between Slivnica and Drazenci, which is the poor nineteen kilometers, and the section between the international border crossing in Gruškov and the state border with the Republic of Croatia. There is still about 12 kilometers between Dražans and Gruškov when they will be re-emerging not only this year, but also in the coming years of congestion when they will be involved from the highway to the ordinary road. This will certainly represent some kind of traffic jam to which we need to prepare in the perspective. That is why I would like to give this section, which I do not hope to claim today, when it will be built, a higher priority for us to conclude this highway connection between Maribor and Zagreb and, as my colleague Župevčeva said, on this axis, I also anticipate a new development. I think you can all make a good example of what happened in Prekmurje today. The Prekmur motorway has caused the fact that Prekmurje is not as dead as Slovenia today, but I am sure that due to improved mobility one new perspective development area of our country. And in this respect, I would like to design a development triangle between Maribor, Zagreb and Austria's Graz with a real highway between Maribor and Zagreb, an area within which the whole of North-East Slovenia can come to an end and based on Europe's regions, I will say, new stages of development. Well, transport is a development factor, but unfortunately in Slovenia we are all too busy with road traffic. Those who drive several times between Maribor and Ljubljana can be estimated how many daily migrations of people who travel between Maribor and Ljubljana every day in a desire for better jobs, better prospects for their careers. Have we ever calculated in this country how much these paths are costing us every day because we have a small decentralised country? In the form of fuel and energy, in the form of the travel costs paid by the economy, in the form of the costs paid by the environment? Because in the last 20 years, unfortunately, we have witnessed a marked centralised development of the country. In this regard, let me also call on this point to think about new approaches, that more state institutions, because in this area the country must set an example, put in other regional centres and at this point let me remind myself that I have joined the Government's initiative to join the Maribor ambitions, to put together the planned reorganisation and the planned merger of the two energy pillars of the Slovenian Power Plants in Maribor, where it belongs, as Maribor is the traditional seat of the Slovenian electricity industry. By the way, when Maribor was the seat of the Slovenian electricity industry, the whole Slovenian energy sector developed polycentrically. Well, let me finish with the future of Slovenian transport. All of us, I am sure, at least at the declaration level, are committed to sustainable mobility. I would like it to be precisely because of these daily migrations that the weight of transit, which is growing exponentially, to ensure a smarter transport path. In this respect, it seems to me that today is also a time of little revolutionary ideas, let's think about how it would be possible to direct some more intelligent modes of transport between Mursko Sobota and Kopro, at least between the more frequent position between Maribor and the coast. For example, light rail, for example, so-called "monoreel" transports, which are significantly cheaper in implementation than the connection itself to the reconstruction of rail infrastructure, can also be put into concession, of course, in the interest of reaching a rapid link that will relieve this huge environmental and financial burden caused by today's migration of people. I will support the annual programme for the reconstruction and development of the highway network, I think that what can be implemented today in 2009 is realistic, and I wish that with this annual plan, which is the beginning of the Tlačičev period, we will come to a smarter, more rational and faster construction not only of the highway network, but of the entire transport policy in the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr Bukovnik has the word - he is not there, Mr Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad the Minister is in the hall right now. I would like to tell him our clear views, which were also expressed at the press conference by the President of our party, Victory Jelinčič. I can really agree that it is not a coincidence that today there are so many reported troublemakers in this debate, because the problem of every citizen driving on the highway anywhere in Slovenia can be seen immediately. Even the newly built sections are not permeable. Interestingly, we can no longer find excuses for doing so. I would like to give the example of Croatia, which has been very broken up, there has been a war a little longer than here, with us. But if we get in the car and drive from Zagreb to Split, we have a good highway. So that we will not talk about a good highway connection, they have also been able to complete relatively fast railway projects and are doing new construction of the railway connection for the eastern part of Europe. If we are talking about this, we also need to look at the perspective of going backwards, since 1994 - if we are talking about another transport transfer, this is the railway that should be the first - in my opinion. At that time, we made a national programme for the development of railway infrastructure. To this day, the distinguished minister, this program has been implemented by 4.5%. 4.5% since 1994! If we can call this ability, forward-looking development, consistent transport policy, then I cannot agree with that. The media is writing today: The Minister is no match for the task. While some ministers lie, others try, I join you in trying. That's my opinion. It doesn't say here. You're trying, but there are too many problems. Look! The winner, Jelinčič, said that we are confident in the Slovenian National Party that strange things were happening throughout the period of construction of motorway links in Slovenia. These strange things are known to everyone: we have an example of building a tunnel tunnel tunnel in the Trojans, then Markovec, and then an interesting example is when we made the suburban section of the highway, and we didn't take into account the project; the runway was designed - we didn't do it. Today we have a new highway, which is not a highway, is a fast road on which there is no intervention lane, there is not actually a flow - but interesting, there is no responsible person! She's gone, and I believe she's gone! Almost all contracts signed with various contractors, respected by the Minister, were immediately followed by an annex to the contract. And these numbers are astronomical. Why there could have been, I will say, lower numbers than they were later charged, this is also a special story and I believe that what I have already said on the work body as Vice-President of this Committee, I ask you to carry out a careful review of all the works done. Let the Court of Auditors also play a little game of who's won here and made use of it in a private account. Today, it is unacceptable that no one speaks in the National Assembly about the quality of the work done. We have an open construction site almost every mile. This is no longer a highway, ladies and gentlemen. It's a village path, asphalted village path! The fact that someone who is in a responsible position claims to the minister that he cannot and will not ensure the timely construction of the department - this someone is called Tomislav German - is unheard of! That someone claims to the minister that he cannot and of course does not know how to make a purchase of land because of clearly clearly expressed higher interest and stands the whole leg of building a highway - this is unheard of! Who do we think we are, and who do we have to pull? It is not right that we are talking about paying the cost of motorways, but at the same time we can see that the minister is offering a new vignette system, in which taxpayers will still have to cut into their pockets if we want to pay these bills. Because with the new vignette system, we're going to raise less money than we're collecting today. If I continue to apply this matter. It is not right to say that we have a good transport policy if the new vignette system makes the highway system less accessible to citizens and citizens, especially those who do not even meet the basic standard. Today the motorway regime is affordable, I think, for the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes. I do not mind if someone in Europe in Brussels has invented that we must be less discriminatory towards European nations and that we must introduce monthly or weekly vignettes. We can do this by leaving the year - and - a - half - year vignettes completely at peace. Because of me, the week's vignette can also be 1 cent to provide comfort to all tourists who want to come to us. However, we are teasing the annual vignette and also half a year, and the weekly purchases will cost more than half a year. Of course, this will tomorrow result in the Minister having to come to the National Assembly with a new proposal for a budget rebalancing or with a new guarantee request. Because I believe that, despite all these sources of funding, there will not be enough money to pay all the open accounts. And we're gonna put this manna back on the taxpayers! As far as roads are concerned, the Minister of State, I have asked here, I know that it is not a matter of coming to the National Assembly or to the national working body of the Transport Committee for a serious approach, but a serious development study on how to correct this mistake from the past. For we know that we have not invested almost anything in this transport transfer in this independent Slovenia since the beginning. State roads are completely neglected, on some sections so dangerous that the question is, if it makes any sense, that they are open. If I go back to the vinjets again. We will additionally burden such bad roads because we will reduce accessibility to motorways because these services will be encouraged. I don't want the Minister of Transport to become the weakest member in the government, I really don't want that. I would not like to have a greater death tomorrow, because we are making conscious mistakes, and we have also been very good at alerting all the representatives of the opposition parties to these mistakes when the debate was on how else we can solve the problem that the Commissioner in Brussels has set for us. The suggestions were very good, but they were not heard. I have also not seen Slovenia objecting to this unilateral proposal or unilateral decision by the Italian Commissioner, saying that we may not have even complained, at least I do not know, about this document. And all the judges around this: we must encourage the vines, but we do not know whether Europe will release the blocked funds. Do we have this assurance, Minister, that Europe will unblock these reserved funds - without it, just like that? That's what the Commissioner made up, and he kept it. I think it is unacceptable that this can only happen if it is a legal basis, if it is decided by a court, but no decision can be taken by one person alone. And the last. I would like, Minister, to agree here today and to make a public promise, I will hold you to your word - I hope that yours is more valid than Mr Golobic's words - to make a promise here when we will receive a coherent programme for the development or strategic development of transport policy in Slovenia, which will indeed be a document based on what has already been adopted in the National Assembly; you have the money, Minister-respected, you have the guarantee laws we have adopted in the National Assembly, you have them in your treasury for two years, if I may say so, and in these two years we have not started any serious project in the railway field. Not a single one! We have a directorate and an agency, they both have nice bedrooms, I believe there is a ficus to be found, but more than that, these two institutions that are supposed to produce projects that are supposed to take care of the investment in the reconstruction of railway infrastructure, which has not happened in these years. And if we don't properly develop other options, then we'll destroy it quickly. There's something else I'd like to draw your attention to. The most frequently amended law in the National Assembly was the Road Traffic Safety Act. And to talk about how good and successful we have been in building highways, while at the same time allowing trucks to drive almost free of charge on our highways, while also reducing their penalties for their violations, is unacceptable, because these motorways are no longer motorways today, as we can see in every major rain, when we can see that there are major roadblocks in the middle of the vehicle, which can also cause serious traffic problems. And of course, until the government has shown so much good will that it will decide - because I say, at least one of the correspondence meetings, now during the summer, you will have a lot of time to gather - and to make an intervention decision to redirect the heavier transit cargo to the railways during the coming season. Wearing trains offer strong opportunities for unloading our roads. This will also reduce mortality on our roads, and we can do so, as has already been said, with a little of good will right away. If Slovenian railways do not have these means of transport at their disposal, rental contracts may be made available, the traffic may expire tomorrow. When I was the director of the Slovenian Railways, responsible for technical driving activities in Primorska, we had such a train that was always full. From Sežana to Budapest, she drove back and forth, by the fact that the country was then generously and, of course, also generously earmarking part of the fare, but she subsidised this map, and we can repeat this practice. Not by one train, maybe by four, but these trucks that destroy Slovenian highways will be very fast and probably significantly less on Slovenian roads every day. As for the quality of the work done; here the errors are visible, the responsible are signed on the contracts and I would ask you, Minister of Respect, to make this promise today, that you will blow up these matters and that we will also impose on the Court of Auditors, that you walk both to the contractors and to the contracting authorities, and that you will carefully review what is poorly done in Slovenia. If we don't do this, and the fact that we're going to fix what we've paid dearly tomorrow will be the responsibility of your side, Minister-respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u56	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister-in-Office with a co-worker. This list of the annual development plan and the restoration of the highway is still too large, too thick. Because highways in Slovenia should have been built at least 10 years earlier and the situation in Slovenia would be completely different today, because motorways bring development, motorways bring decentralisation, and today we are witnessing that in Slovenia there are very many undeveloped areas, that many people drive daily to work mainly in Ljubljana, which is due to the burden of roads and, of course, also to a large number of fatalities. I'm going to touch a particular section or case, and that's Pluska-Crab. This is extremely important for the whole southeast of Slovenia, Dolenjsko, White Krajina and also Posavje. I would be pleased if this statement in this annual plan were only from the year 2009. In any case, I am not satisfied with those two stars, where it says that the target date at the end of 2009 can only be achieved under favourable weather conditions and that land purchase and public procurement procedures will be completed. Look, Minister, I drive every day, and I have a chance to see the dynamics of building these highways, and I can tell you that this dynamic is very slow. A lot of trucks, machines, construction machines. And there's a truck driving or working some kind of machine, and now it's an ideal time, and I think the Ministry, you and Darsa should make sure that the contractors work faster. This shows that the claim, which has already been repeatedly made that the area of motorways or construction is criminalised, that construction operators have subordinated policy, has also subordinated dynamics and prices. They actually dictate our prices, which is not good. If, on the part of your ministry, you, too, were personally, respected Minister, a little more determination and not least willingness, as in the previous mandate, to see this in front of your predecessor, Mr Žerjav, when he also tried to cut down several times in the construction lobby and to achieve and overcome that certain contractors had to act differently, I think that these things would have happened more quickly. At the time of the appointment of the government in November of this month, I highlighted this importance of the construction of the highway, which is crucial for the development of the economy of the whole region, the whole of Dolenjska, the White Country and, of course, Posavje. The economy was the one that had already appealed to the previous government in the previous term, which also speeded up the adoption of the documents, speeded up the preparation of all the documentation and provided money. We know that money has been provided for this section before and even now, which is one of the key issues. Even now, the economy is the one that expects us Members, of course, also of you, to conclude this construction as soon as possible, to connect this arm with Ljubljana or the world, because this part of the economy needs these motorways, is one of the most export-oriented parts of Slovenia and if the highway is not upgraded, it means that their business and their work will be hampered. I hope that you will attend this symbolic meeting organised by the Chamber of Commerce of Dolenjska and White Krajina on 30 June 2009, where you will again be presented with these needs and that you will also try to make some optimism there so that these sections will try to complete by the end of this year. See also Dars is, I think that in March the meeting of all those involved in Trebnje, where there was some consensus of all those involved in completing this highway to find a solution to those land purchases - I think only two of them were still open at the time. Many promises have been made that this will try to accelerate and realize itself, but, as I said, every day I drive, there is no other way to detect it than that every day one section, where this road is built, is closed by mine action. I know this is necessary. But in other parts, this dynamic is too slow, and more times, someone in a joke reminds me to alert the Ministry and Dars, if this is how it works, it won't be built for another five years. I hope this goes a little faster now. This is what the economists expect of you, Mr. Minister, as I mentioned. You are also expected by all Members from this work, and you will have our support, but we expect you to establish your authority here, to step firmly into the contractors and to demand that there be accelerated construction here, even at a time when work is available for days, because in the winter or when the weather is bad, operators will not work, but at a time when the weather is favourable, they will speed up. You will be grateful for the region and not least all those who drive daily to Ljubljana from this part of Slovenia. And there must be a few thousand of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Last May, at the 39th regular meeting, on the occasion of the 2008 Annual Plan for the Construction of Motorways, the SD representative received the following words: "The proposal for a decision on consent to the 2008 annual plan for the development of motorway renewal to be adopted by the National Assembly is one of the very important decisions, which must be based on an act on which the National Assembly could determine whether or not it could adopt this decision. In fact, the basis for the adoption of annual programmes is the Resolution on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. And it is only a resolution that gives the National Assembly an overview of whether the annual programme is in line with the resolution or whether it withdraws. Unfortunately, we note that the characteristic of this annual programme, in addition to extremely late treatment in the National Assembly, is also the far largest amount of debt in the history of the implementation of motorways. We need to know that Darsa's current debt is 3.5 billion - today is something like four. In this annual programme, we additionally owe 589 million more, today we have 329 million guarantees and 439 million euro loans. And even if we look at the resources, they're moving away from a 155% national programme resolution. In our case today it's 110. In short, it is an extremely different source of funding, which we really need to worry about in the National Assembly, whether we can even deal with a document that does not actually have a basis in the basic act, this is the Resolution on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways..." You could still read and say that, actually, today is the same. But I find this inappropriate; it is inappropriate because I know that the minister in this place is about, that I will not say exactly, the same time as I was when we discussed last year's annual plan, and he had the same time for changes as I did last year. But it was true that at the time of May last year, there was a windstorm in this room or hall, and it made it feel very good. We hear a lot about the building lobby. Unfortunately, no one in this country has taken this problem seriously in 19 or 18 years. Nobody. Last year, when the "pure shovel" affair broke out, there was a mockery. In short, if you do, what about now and so on? I wonder why no one has taken it seriously so far, although everyone in this hall is talking about this building lobby and everyone wants to stop it and break it off. I have an answer. Because all political parties are also financed by construction companies, local, local, state level and so on. I tried to deal with this problem on my own last year, partly failed, partly failed. The result of all of this is that I have a private complaint about being sued by a construction company because I said a word that was not appropriate. When I tried to find myself a lawyer in Ljubljana, I had to make a serious effort because all lawyers were actually hired by construction companies and had already told me that they had a conflict of interest and that they could not represent me. And I'm wondering, is that any way anyone can stand up to this building lobby? Minister? Why? So that then the "post festival" after the minister's gone, he'll be paying charges out of his pocket and suing construction companies? In fact, the country does not offer any protection, no protection. And we just don't mean it. If we're serious, we have to do this together - the government, led by the President of the Government and so on and so forth. Otherwise, it's all a big bluff. Consensus is needed in this area if we are to break up with the construction lobby. The consensus of all political parties, otherwise it can't be solved, I'll tell you in advance. In addition to what seems important to me, and I have failed in its entirety, I have had too little time, and I hope the minister will have more. It is not a problem of a minister, not a problem of the directors of individual companies, Darsa, DDC, or who, the problem is the second and third levels, so called in the terms "the profession", which decides on many things, on many important things. Unfortunately, when there are problems, there is nowhere to hide in the holes and everything falls through the minister, falls down on the directors of Darsa, DDC, etc., etc. A lot of names are mentioned around the so-called profession, because it's not a profession for me. The profession is when it's decided, it's behind it, and a lot of people decide, and then they hide, and it's not professional. He might also have touched it, but today there were several mentions of the Moor Highway. Catastrophe! There, too, apparently had to be repaired in the background by an expert who allowed herself to cut off the passports and at the same time narrow down the export belts by two inches [25 cm]. I would be very pleased to see who that minister was - because the minister was not, so clearly, the minister was not, the minister didn't even know about it - to investigate who was the one who signed or made this decision, whether it was a decision or something that happened. It would be very good to know who did this. It is said that this happened even in this hall. Maintenance works. We talked about this with the minister at the time of the sale. Last year, I tried to do something a little different when I banned maintenance work from going through the tourist season. I am still personally convinced that this was the right decision, but I think, even through this annual plan, which we are considering today, that the scope of these works is too large, we are talking about 76 million, about so many of these maintenance works would also be last year. Last year, I simply did not let go of it myself, and I actually left it the way the profession - again professional - prepared it. In fact, this year we have exactly the same story as last year. Why? Because it's too big. My assessment is that if these funds, I'm talking about 76 million euros, were to be halved, it would be the right one. I estimate that in this area, in the area of maintenance of motorways, many works are being done to work and that construction companies have a business. In fact, through maintenance works, there's really a lot more to cover; and we're talking about 76 million. Last year, I think it was 75, and before that -- don't hold my breath -- 35 to 40. I'd touch two more points: the highway past Trebnje. Last year, when all the contracts were signed, the last one for the last viaduct was my request that all the works be completed by 15 December of this year. But we said that we would say that the highway would be completed by the end of the year; in short, we would leave 14 days of "luft" at home. According to the information I received, this was also ensured, in short, that all the contracts signed are such that it is possible to achieve this. I heard about the problem, even then it was suggested, by this private person, who is now unreasonably and unacceptably holding back this important project for Dolenjska and is actually forcing Dars, the ministry and everything in order to fit into this account of course - we are talking about millions of dollars, of course, not a few hundred thousand euros, that it seems simply unacceptable to me. According to my assessment, only Dolencia and the Ministry together can force this gentleman to move, and, as I say, everything else, as far as I have information, should not be reservations that this highway ends by the end of this year. The third development axis. A colleague spoke about this segment around Zasavje. It is not true, it was not true that the political decision was to go the third development axis according to that medium variant; in short from Celje, Laško, etc. That's not true, that's just not true. The profession, the re-expert who produced the studies, assessed this variant as the most appropriate. I personally opposed, can confirm the mayor, Mr Barovic, what my thinking was then and is still exactly the same: that this third development axis should go through Zasavje, completely logical and normal. It's just a second opinion. I don't think I've forgotten anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you. Mrs. Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Hello, Mr. Secretary, Director of the Directorate and everyone else present. Road traffic also requires mirrors, which are used mainly in the road network of local, regional and state roads, to ensure safety. But it is true that some very quickly, too quickly forget their past work and today talk about a kind of mirror of the previous opposition, but forget that the efficiency or better said inefficiencies of their work are felt by all of us; all of us who are on the road, for example, as has been said many times today, after an unfinished highway crossing such as the lower leg. In the past, there has been a lot of talk about the need to unite the municipalities in the course of the third development axis traffic link. For example, the southern part from New City to White Krajina and forward to Croatia. The unification took place on 3 July last year. However, the preparation of documentation for the State Location Plan, despite a meeting with the Minister, the former Minister, will begin only now, because somehow one gets the feeling that at the time it somehow suited that we were not united. Of course, it is interesting to divert attention with the reasons for the failure to complete the highway cross, such as in the case of the lower leg in the past two years, it has been unacceptable to wait with the invitation to tender in the booklet for the Viaduct of Ponikva, the unresolved issue of land redemption, decommissioning and more. Today, as was said, it is a pity, and it was also said: a sad story. It is indeed a sad story to talk about why some were not present at an extremely important meeting of the Transport Committee, where the Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways 2009 was confirmed. It was said, because there was not enough time, procedural and such problems, to study the material, but all these facts are not on exactly solid ground, because if the will, as has been said, was the consensus of all of us, we could propose, for example, an hour of rest, although I believe that my fellow Members would not need it at all for more than fifteen minutes, because those who were once in the lead of the competent ministry could quickly determine whether the plan they had prepared in the past years had changed at all. In particular, this is confirmed to me because today the following conclusion has been made that the current government has followed the structure and content of the plans of the past years, which I believe is right and fair, that this is a continuation in the past of the work being started. If possible - even more successful and even more effective. The confirmation of the 2009 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways is so important that this political decision to leave the meeting was difficult to understand. Not for me, especially for voters and voters from those areas where the highway cross is not yet completed, such as in Pomurje, in Dolenjska, in Gorenjska. When a person is not careful enough to make a decision, it is only when road safety is again threatened, when blood is flowing, when life is extinguished, or when someone seriously injured is lying in a hospital. When confidence has been shown to all of us in the parliamentary elections, it is good not to forget this too quickly. Above all, I cannot understand the narrowness of thinking only about the possible illegal benefits of construction operators, lobbyists, etc. Economics, crafts and entrepreneurship, which play an important role in areas outside central Slovenia, have an important impact on regional development, on Slovenia's more equitable population, and in particular on employment, on the social security of people and contribute significantly to the social life of the population, such as the Dolenjska and Bela landscapes from which I come. The expectations of Slovenk and Slovenci are also the realization of the construction of development axes in Slovenia and the reconstruction of state roads. We would like to see, together with consensus, the agreement and cooperation of all the political parties of this Parliament as easily as possible to cope with the economic and financial crisis, in order to restart the cycle in Slovenia, as when snow is melting in the mountains and the storms are full of water. Thinking today will: if it is simply unacceptable, it will be unacceptable, because in the area of the highway network, the problem is a rare number created at a time of high economic growth by borrowing high amounts of credit, when they can do much more and even more with more informed decisions despite the loans. I believe it's the most beautiful moment for the builders when they're already drawing white lines on highways. Let me finish in the style of the area we're talking about in terms of traffic, I'd say. "I will turn on the green light" and confirm the 2009 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways to support the economy to a greater extent in Slovenia, including through the development of a highway network, in order to have as many successful enterprises as possible as possible, such as Krka in New Town, and not to have a pure "clean" shovel because of the lack of confirmation of the annual plan instead of work and land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u61	Mr. Zerjav, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Brunskole, I think we were both at that meeting when all three of you mayors came to me and told me that you had united on the course of the third development axis. And I hope that you will also remember what my request to my colleagues at the time was, when I said that such consent should be rewarded and shown to all other mayors on the way, not only the third development axis, but also all other development axes, that such cases should be properly rewarded and given priority. Was that so? Please, then in your fairy tale, which you have read, you would say it well. However, if this has not been done by my co-workers, unfortunately there has also been a change of government. And all of this, but now that I'm not a minister anymore, I can't control it. Excuse me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u64	Dear Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The main question today is what are we actually discussing, what should we call this material: the annual highway construction programme is certainly not. July 19th is not an annual programme! Are we considering some rescue program for this year after that mess that was before? Not exactly, but in one part, I guess - yeah. Whether this is a transitional programme that will have to fill this gap or these weaknesses that are happening in the implementation of the national programme - this will probably be true. And of course I am also saying this because even in the introduction, when you write on what the annual programme is based on, it is certainly not on the Law on the Provision of Dedicated Means for the Construction of State Roads and so on, because you have here in the box where these funds are supposed to be zero. So it is not based on this law, as it was not based at the time when the previous government changed this practice, which was previously perfectly clear and was also based on this law. Which was actually a sustainable system until, of course, those things didn't change. But, nevertheless, I believe that what we have to do is what we have to do in law, that the National Assembly approves the annual programme, in order to confirm the temporary programme for the construction and restoration of the highway adopted by the Government in order to enable 1. 1. benefits in the current year of the asset. This is what was also said to be responsible for the collective, as they say, and that we finally cannot determine from year to year what these things are really about, whether we are building rationally, whether we are building quickly, whether we are building beautifully, or whatever, but this is repeated year after year. I am convinced that the task before the Minister, before the Government, is to do so, and indeed in a relatively short time, a balance sheet of the situation where, according to the first highway construction programme, we are several times rebalanced in this programme and what we can do in the future, and that this will also be done so that we can control in the National Assembly and in the public what is happening, in terms of what has been planned, in terms of what has been done and how much we have paid for it. Of course, everyone has their own idea of where they're going, where they expect something to happen, and so on. But only this is important for the National Assembly: how much money we spend on building, which are priorities, and the country as such has placed them in its programmes and wants to realize them for faster, coherent development, to increase the flow of traffic in transit, to increase security and all that is involved. I myself am firmly convinced of what I have been advocating for many years that Dars needs to be changed, that is, Darsa's organisation into a true economic society. What is now is nothing. It's very easy when you're in a company where you have a plan that you can or you can't make, after the guarantee, you go to the country, if you're able to pay back, you're capable of returning those loans, if not, you're going to get a new guarantee for new loans to reprogram those former ones. It's not a system. Dars has enough assets or the state of Slovenia as the only owner when we talk about roads, when we talk about infrastructure facilities, rents, if you want, for petrol services and various other things, and it would be reasonable to think about making a real economic society, transferring the property of Dars or the state into property, and tying this Dars to rule in the way that any other economic company has to work on its own behalf, for its own account and, of course, as a 100% owner through control in this company exercises its rights. Until then, I am sure that this postponement will be tomorrow and at the end of the day is like this: Dars imagine some program, secure some money, at the end of not one year there was no analysis or report, how much and whether really for that money was done what was planned. And even more, today I hear again about, say, Cicava - if you go to look at this program, you will see that there are at least half of the copies that are equal to ten years and more. The highway program, there, in the introduction, you probably gave the Minister the wrong information to talk once about Cicava at the seaside and in two sentences about Cicava at the bottom, which means someone's joking. But this part of the highway is opened in 1992, the reserved corridor for the planned petrol service and every year in the annual programme is the same diction: "We are trying to buy two fields." These two fields are dug up once you're driving, because "sniffers" -- sorry, archaeologists have done all the work there five, six years ago -- and there's either someone joking or let's move on. So I will never fall for the words spoken here by the former minister: "Yes, Dolenjci, let you take into the hands of those men who do not want to give up the land." Yes, I ask you nicely whether we will move him, as they moved into the previous mandate of Roma from Ambrus - now I see some bloody pictures there and so on. We have legislation, we have responsible people, we have procedures to come up with a national location plan to get to the ground and so on. If not, it is a decommissioning process and there is a law for motorways where the procedure is substantially shorter. If someone doesn't start a procedure, if those of you who pay richly to buy your land don't do it, replace them, because Dars orders DDC, DDC orders one of the companies that does it, and they have some subcontractors and so on. That's impossible! And don't talk that way and say that because two people didn't give up land or sell it, but now it's a circus, so let people take matters into their own hands and convince them. It's not a legal state, it's not a system! After all, there's a corridor right there - do you know since when? Since 1958 it has been a corridor for a new road! It is true that in some parts there has been a little bit of a shift, but the corridor has been reserved since 1958, even then there was a legal state of any kind, when that road was made, but this is more because, sooner or later, it is now to pronounce itself and say "it will be something open 2009" because, this is not what the former minister said last year, 2007, when he took office, he said it would be open in 2008 and today he said in 2009. Does he know that the contract is signed for viaduct - unless they accelerate, and I don't know how it can, if the conditions don't work - for March 2010. And that was signed in his term of office. Too bad, for free, we're convincing people here how some are more successful, how others are less successful, and so on. We are as successful on this program as we are successful. Unfortunately, however, we will never be able to have serious control in this way over the planning and implementation of this programme. The Commission of Inquiry will not be fruitful in this way either. I really just want to remind myself of some good practices, because it's so modern and popular lately. When it comes to buying land, you can certainly see how they do it in Italy, only across the border. One year they have time and say by the representatives of the state or the investor or anyone on behalf of the state does so and says: "You are a farmer, right, a substitute land in such quality or better, if not, we pay you, if you leave the land immediately, twice the price. If not, we'll go to this land after one year. You will go to court and it will take 10 years or more." But they're going to start building that day after one year. I think that's a good practice. I'm not talking about taking farmers or anyone else's land or taking it over, but if it's a matter of public interest, if it's something like I say, for example, if a Roman road went there -- not only has the corridor been reserved since 1958, but a Roman road went there, right there, just 10, 20 meters apart. So in all these years, they were rebuilding, building, and so on, including the year 1958, when they were 100 miles [100 km] made in eight months with motorbikes. You know everything now, don't you? [[...]] I really don't want everyone here on average to say that he's either a private person or a farmer or I don't know who's responsible for not being able to do that. That's not true. Because if we were to run procedures, we could have done them by now. But that's just another thing. I'd like to say two more words about renovations. I suggest that you check, however, I speak again about good practices, the least traffic is on the road, the second half of July and the first half of August. And the best weather conditions are to rebuild highways and every road because it's at least precipitation because there can't be anything else and so on. And that's what they do in Italy, go look over there, go to France, go to Germany and so on. It is the least traffic then, and the most traffic is in September, when everyone comes back when they start production and so on. Check this good practice, and there is another detail there, which is also explained by Ministry experts, to say that 60 days we have for one section, because we could not restore it throughout the year, we will give more sections for 60 days, even though it is fictitious work for 20, 30 or not that many days. But here it's ugly to say that construction companies are making a big deal of work, because someone has to do it anyway. But clearly, if there are such calls, why don't we do it this way. Change your calls! Finally, I would like to say that I would very much like to hear about the action plan for the introduction of a changed toll system. The state programme was adopted, the former government abolished it, with the conclusion that it would adopt a new one. In the meantime, she had to have an adventure with vignettes, then the plan of action for launching satellite or other tolls in two or three years will be alive. I wonder if you're working on this action plan, when will it be known? But you don't have to talk about what it's going to be like, and so on, because these are technological solutions anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u65	It's a replica. Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My friend Mr. Anderlich, you know a lot about these construction things. You seem to have worked very well together. I've even heard that in the past you've had quite a few words here in this area, but apparently [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] But your finger was very heavy, so otherwise I want to say the following, that you obviously don't know everything. [[...]] [[...]] But you don't know everything, and I'm going to tell you about the case of Pomurka, which my colleagues at the Ministry have been dealing with very intensively. By the way, three months before the opening [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u67	Please, only Mr. Zerjav has a word and don't disturb him. Please continue, Mr. Zerjav. You still have time for the replica. Please, you stopped the speaker from telling the replica to the end, at least shut up so we can continue the session. Mr Levanic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Members and Members of Parliament. I think that the national programme that we are going to adopt today is very important, especially because we need to carry out a task that has not been carried out in the past and that is, of course, to complete some motorway sections and allow for a balanced and faster development of all parts of Slovenia. I would like to, perhaps, because much has been said that this is very important for some local environment, perhaps recall one thing that has been done differently in the past, and this is that it is part of the highway; it was even a legal recommendation, otherwise it was only a recommendation which was not taken into account; that the motorway must continue its journey from the Slovenian Bistrica, forward, Ptuj, Ormož, Ljutomer and, of course, Murska Sobota. This highway has bypassed this part of the province and, of course, has caused many other problems that have also arisen. The next very important point is: since it is possible to speak only about this area, it is said, the areas of Ptuj, I do not know so many others, so I will be able to point out this case a little bit more, another matter which is very important, the Infrastructure and Environment Committee in 2004 called on the Government and the National Assembly to include the Ptuj-Ormož Road in the national programme, which would replace the highway programme which, of course, covered this area. To date, this has not yet been realized, because the problem is Natura, and today the annual program contains this fast road mainly to the Markovci Congregation. This is very important, especially due to the development of this work and mainly due to the fact that transit traffic somehow withdraws from local roads and can run normally, but especially has quick access to the highway in Slovenia Bistrica, which then leads to other parts of Slovenia. I think it is very important that, at this point, we support the thinking of the Minister of Transport, who is speaking mainly in the direction that Slovenia needs to be transformed into a sort of centre of Europe, where economic development through the flow of transport will be possible in even faster form, and where other countries can also see that the economic path through Slovenia can take place faster, especially in order to have the support of the National Assembly in this area. It is not that important who has signed anything in the past, but it is important that we have failed all motorways in Slovenia and that we do not in fact allow the Slovenian economy sufficient competitiveness. Now, of course, is the time to fix it. It is true that it is not the best solution for borrowing or borrowing credit and thus for borrowing our next generation. It is also true that the current period does not allow for large, different solutions, so "need to be served" at some point also such things. It is important that we try, and this is my conclusion, of course, to implement this national programme, not only that it will remain with the documents, but that there will also be realisation of the works and of course better developments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Wiggle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u70	Dear Mr. President! I guess a lot of people will wonder why I'm calling at this point in the agenda, because I'm proven not to be an expert on motorways, but I've been so intrigued by some debaters that I do. For the first time, I would like to say something at the address of former Minister Žerev. I would like to congratulate him on his very cultured and true performance for such a Parliament. I think it's a rare exception that as a former minister, he's not attacking the angry new minister, but he's looking for some kind of dialogue, in a way I think he should impress a lot of us here. So much more because the minister was in a difficult time and a short time so that most of his ideas could not actually be realized. However, it seems to me that the whole debate today is, in fact, a debate that we would like to have several times in this House, because we are talking about a particular matter, without an excessive charge, against each other and looking for some backgrounds. What I wanted to talk about is this tribulation or problem that we all have with the construction lobby in Slovenia. We all have it because we pay for expensive highways because we watch scenes that look like from some criminal movies over and over again and everything is connected to the so-called construction lobby. And when it comes to highways, in particular, one must probably be blind and completely incapable of logical reasoning, if one does not wonder when driving on highways, about those that are being built and those that are being rebuilt, when one sees that every two kilometers a new contractor, a new mechanism, a new journalist, people who work or even support the shovel, and the whole thing goes very slowly forward. The way highways are built in Slovenia is not built anywhere in the world. I've crossed this world quite a bit, so I can say something about it. Actually, I was going to say the following. Slovenian construction is obviously the ruin of a previous system, from one of the previous countries, when very many of these construction companies were in every small place and when each of these companies earned a large part of their money on projects abroad. We Slovenians were once among champions when it came to big projects, especially in the Middle East and elsewhere in the world. We're not in this world today. And this is what I think is a major problem and, if you want, the life problem of Slovenian construction. Our companies are too small, too weak, too poorly organised, too weak to be supported to be able to look for work where it is, where projects are still functioning, and this applies practically to the entire Middle East, to all countries where our economic and political delegations occasionally go, but there is no effective system in the country or anyone in the country who would feel called for this small economy represented by our construction companies to somehow put into some larger housing and to create a little bit more of their income outside. And that was essentially what I wanted to suggest to the responsible new minister in this area. Maybe he'll listen to it. I've already spoken to some others, but they didn't listen. In general, I think that this topic is, after all, an inexistent topic at the current crisis moment of the Slovenian economy. I think we have the knowledge and potential that our construction operations could go where the projects are. I know something about it because I've walked these countries and got some not only impressions, but also information about it. It would still be time for a slightly more ambitious approach to these markets. But someone's gonna have to organize a construction operation. It is clearly not capable of this, so it prefers to fight for every square metre of highway, for each tunnel, for each overpass and for each small order within the maintenance of the motorway. I think this is some task that the Government will probably have to recognize as its own in the absence of a management that would be able to organise on an entrepreneurial level, but obviously we still don't. And that's why I think the government should seriously consider this and the department minister who shows enough temperament and good will. And that's what I wanted to tell him, maybe you'll tell him that I like the energy he's investing and his approach to his work at the beginning of his term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u72	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A respected minister or coworkers. I will support an annual development programme or highway reconstruction for 2009, even though it is relatively modest. I'd expect a little more. But I'm glad you're mainly covered in maintenance and renovation. I am waiting for this 2010 annual plan to be on the table and that we will be able to take it seriously for the following years. But it is true that some things need to be responded to. I hear the builders are directing our prices and so on. I will almost say that I have to agree with this and, of course, commend the former government in some way, that it has embarked on this purpose, even if some claim that it has engaged the building lobby primarily in front of the cameras and so on, but I expect that these arrests and everything else will produce results. So I sincerely hope that, of course, this will clear up and come so far that things will change in the best sense and turn into order, in the sense that they must be. I also heard a rumor in this sense, yes, political parties are being financed from the building lobby. I'd find that hard to agree with because you can hear a lot of things. I have also heard that, for example, freemen who came to households years before the elections were financed from this very lobby. So it's questionable that you can just about everything on the average, you can go through all these things. First of all, it is necessary to clean up and, of course, move on. Otherwise, I must admit that I am glad that this basic corridor is finished and, of course, especially this, Kiev-Barcelona, if it is still missing at this moment Maribor. I estimate that this opening will also come this year. However, I am a slightly different opinion, as my forerunner, I have no confidence in the profession in Slovenia. Since we failed to plan the highway programme, the entry into the European Union has come before us, we were not able to plan and, of course, to get the matter so far as to count on a 500% increase which, of course, happened when we entered the European Union. I estimate that some are, so I will not say incompetent, but that they do not have enough knowledge and it would probably have to be slowly withdrawn in order to have some younger ones who should have come with more knowledge, etc. Yeah, well, I admit we've had an anomaly, so I mean, on Pomurje, narrow belts, there's no seat belts. How can this happen? So it doesn't work. That's probably clear to all of us. What are we worried about? Safe access to the victims. We have talked about this many times, but I must admit that we did not want to make things more difficult because we ran into the minister, the current, the green light in the sense that all the anomalies of this type will also be prepared on other roads, which are such a type, for a joint project, and in the next few years this problem could also be solved as regards the upgrading of exit belts, etc. I must thank the Minister in this regard and also say, in terms of other areas in Slovenia, thank you for starting to prepare this project. The motorway is also a development opportunity and we in Slovenia are moving on in this regard. But it is to be seen and, of course, in Slovenia, there will also be comprehensive structural changes in this type of development of the highway programme, which I think will be good. Industrial or business zones move along highways and this is to be taken into account when planning. They're moving out of the city, moving out of the village in a foreign way. Also abroad, when we drive by the highway, we see that there are no more industrial zones in cities, but they are exclusively parallel to the highway due to frequency, distribution, etc. I estimate that at the expense of the highway cross being built in our country, it will also be one of the incentives, one of the good things that will bring a little more orderly our countryside, that we will not have, so, as we like to say, in every village of industry or I do not know what zone. I look forward to this and I think that every highway is also a development opportunity for the economy. Of course, I also want to respond briefly to the blames. It is probably clear that many times we have talked about this, that neither by any chance nor by any chance can the claim that, if I apply again, 11 euro was paid from Lendava to Kopra before the introduction of the vignettes, then it is not normal to expect that these 55 euro vignettes could fill the hole that was created in Dars because, of course, Umar had already come to know and calculate in 2007 that the vignettes should be 160 euros. But it's not the point of vinjete. I'm guessing the former minister has set a good deal, too, and I'd like to keep it going. So the goal is electronic tolling, that everyone pays as much as they transport. And this is also some normal logic that is likely to come true, not only with us, but with this work of the European Union, that is, with all those neighbours who are referring to us as some central point in this part of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I'd say hello to the minister, but unfortunately he's not here. This year, at least the forecasts are such, ends the section of the highway in my region, it is said, through Maribor. Fortunately, the former government accelerated sections that had always been delayed; everything else had to be done earlier than there in Styria. According to this logic, I should be satisfied with the construction of our highways, but I'm not satisfied. I am convinced that much of the money has been spent along the mile of the highway and that much more could be done. The neighbouring countries are testifying that there is a huge opportunity here. Finally, Croatia, which is famous for its corruption, has made much more for less money or a kilometer of highway cost less. I've recently come back from Bosnia on the Adriatic Highway, and I must say that there is no argument of our tollbooths that there are bad highways. These are the excuses of our construction lobby, because they realize that money with shovels has been thrown into their pockets, and it's just the way it is. Now someone will probably say yes, because the spring parties had many ministers. Formally, "de facto" were ministers over there in the benches. And the option now in power was constantly holding hands with it and deciding. Here were "de jure" ministers sometimes also from these benches, but "de facto" was decided elsewhere. And the situation remained that way. The building lobby - it's in whose hands it's in. And as a result of this situation, I expected that in this year's programme, the minister, who was a right-wing ahead specialist, would turn on the blue lights in the highway program and swing past the right and bring in a good program that would mean something. When we look at this, we see that he's turned on the stoplight. But here he behaves differently than he does on the road. And that's where he lit the stoplight. It's getting smaller, it's closing. During the campaign, there was so much talk that you can do, what visions you have, what you're going to do. Nothing, nothing. I'm glad my provost told me what a freebie is financed from. Good morning. He says he's being funded by a highway program. That's why he's attacking us so faithfully. At least we found something out. There's a line to be made here. She'll do something, I hope, an investigative committee to figure out who the "de facto" ministers were and who was taking. When I read in these days, when some of this pressure just happened and offers for the Markovac tunnel opened up, some bidder, in cooperation with Austria, made 18 million lower bids, it is a quarter lower bid. Today, I read that the director of the SCT, Mr Zidar, says: there is no work to be done for this money. Scares and warns the minister and the lobby that they have to throw away because there's no way to do it. I hope the contracts are signed on the key. Without the annexes, they should be signed. It is not a problem if they are good politicians and lawyers, what is signed, must be valid. It was done differently through thousands and thousands of annexes. I don't believe there's anything you can do. That's the real price. Maybe there's another way to settle it, lower it probably. If we recalculate when Mr Zidar says that he built the SCT 60 kilometers of tunnels and there is two kilometres of tunnel, that is to say, at two kilometres of tunnel eighteen million euros, calculate and build thirty times as many. Three hundred and sixty million euros fell into the pocket of additional money. Three hundred and sixty million euros! It can be strong, some such builders can be strong, they can absolutely have a left-wing policy because they can actually finance a lot of things. Actually, you can. You know that this is an annual programme now in these situations, when your government, when you've reduced everything, when you're stopping the highway program, when you're not giving perspectives to Koroški, and not to the House, when you say that you're not going to get far from the Soča Valley, long years along some modern road, but this policy of yours is continuing. They were taking money with a shovel, and now they're complaining, and now they're threatening. Three hundred and sixty million, over your thumb, you can calculate how much they took. And the Trojan project and route were the bloodiest places in Slovenia. At the time I was Mr Brodnik, the project was already adopted when we came here for Members, and now we see that we could do a highway along the Bavarian model, maybe one bend would not be in accordance with the standards. They argued here that it could not be done that it must have so many of these superstructures and tunnels, because otherwise it would have been some kind of detour outside the standard. And now we're driving sometimes even 60, the limit is going through that. But the interest was a huge construction site and on those parts, those overpasses took so much money that the third route could already be built today if it wasn't forcing those who "de facto" decided on such a project. And for this minister's sake, I call for him to unlock the stop of light, to go at these prices, to bid here and lower it because he can. Let them shut down the bats that are being funded, all sorts of good mornings and so forth, and work for the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Too bad there's no Minister of Transport in the Chamber right now. We therefore have before us the 2009 Annual Plan for the Development of Highways. This is usually the plan that causes much debate in the National Assembly, of course, because it practically refers to the content that touches practically every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. However, in my own discussion, I would like to limit myself to the construction of the fast road Razdrto - Vipava, or section of the Rebrnica, whose completion and opening of the Vipava Valley, unfortunately, we have been waiting too long. And in fact, it is a disaster that the country has not yet implemented this project. However, to speak again today about the section of the Rebrnica, I was actually encouraged by the article in the Saturday annex entitled "Weak Roads and Idiots", which was published, interestingly, just before the European elections, which, of course, further reassures me and strengthens me that the article was obviously ordered with a view to discrediting Members coming from the Vipav Valley, where I also believe that Members coming from the left political option are deliberately excluded. It is as if the problem of building the fast road of Vipava - Razdrto or Ribnica is that they do not touch them or as if they were some kind of sacred cow that should not be said to them. Well, I don't want to be guilty. Something small is written that the Prime Minister, now Prime Minister Borut Pahor, could do more to build this highway. In short, in this article, the journalist named the MPs from the right-centre parties the slow construction of the highway through the Vipav Valley. Very interesting. In my opinion, there is a clear purpose here. The purpose of politically motivated manipulation is only to try at this end just before the elections to weaken the power and importance of spring customers, who, of course, in the municipalities of Vipava and Ajdovščina are extremely highly listed. Also on the basis of this record, which I have just mentioned, on the basis of this action, of course, it has also been made clear that this delay is, in fact, a political project on the left, by building a fast road on the Rebrunices. Of course, he wants to punish this area, which is clearly defined, which knows what he wants from politics, which, of course, does not advocate left-wing political action, so this area needs to be punished. As a member of the previous term, as well as in the current one, I have asked the question of this very topic of the slow construction of the section of the Rebrnica. Even with current Minister Vlačič, who is not currently in the hall, we had quite a few discussions on the subject. And if I had my way, believe me, this fast road would have been built not today, not yesterday, but before yesterday. Therefore, it is totally unhygienic and inappropriate to accuse Members. The fact is that this section should have been built years and years ago, it would have made life easier for too many people who drive to Ljubljana daily, on an old road that is completely permanent, which is inappropriate. As a result of the construction of a fast road above it, a large part of the population in the village of Podgrič suffers. This is something I've been reminding both previous ministers and the current one, and I don't know how long. There are major problems with the construction of this part of the fast road and no one is taking action, no one is taking action to regulate drainage. That's why she's swimming around the house, and even though I've had a lot of conversations with Dars and all the ministers on this subject, nothing's ever been done. And once again, I cannot agree alone that Members in this area have not done enough or that we are the ones who are to blame for building this section too slowly. Of course, there is another option; unless all these gentlemen are women, they are not ordinary, but, above all, gentlemen who are thoroughly familiar with the construction of motorways think that Members should simply take up the shovel and start building themselves. I'm strong enough, I think I could even do it, and I invite others to do it. I'd grab the shovel myself if I knew it would actually help. But the problem is somewhere else. The problem is not that we should build this section with a shovel in my hand or some other sections. The fact is, in the case of Rebrunice, there was a delay in the invitation to tender. Not only was it a stallion, it was manipulated, but the money apparently leaked into private pockets. And that's why, in fact, such a delay that we don't have this section built today, because the road lobby is too strong for us, and I have to point that out. When the former government under the leadership of Janez Janša tried to step on these road lobbyes, it said, "This is only a pre-election move." Of course, things got pretty good in the corner, and even today, gentlemen can do whatever they want and do what they know best. But apparently not what they're paid for. To build highways. To accuse Members, once again I will say that they are delaying the construction of the highway, and knowing and even deliberately silence the real causes, is unhygienic and is also impossible and extremely unrealistic. I have to say this. In the previous mandate of the government of Janez Janša, construction has greatly accelerated in this section, which I am talking about and which is a major problem. Then they started saying it was a bad configuration of the terrain, and then they said there was a problem with the invitations. Then it all stopped and it was more than obvious it was a dedicated project. This had to be stopped because the elections were approaching and, of course, it was necessary to wait for the outcome of the elections. And when the elections brought new power, of course, it's the easiest thing to do and kick each other's chests, we built it, even though it could have been 15 years ago. Of course, there was a deliberate expectation that the new authorities would be able to cut the strap on the ribs. It would be good to say this directly to those who drive on these roads daily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. I really don't know what's wrong with us Slovenians. With everything I'm listening to at this time of the current term, everything doesn't matter when. Or years ago or today. Everything, everything sucks. We are talking about experts, experts in all areas, and the results in all areas, everything sucks. Now who educated these experts? We were just here yesterday talking about the need to change education. We're home, they're educated, and today we have what we have. I think that the best experts are one way or another by companies, in the state administration, I feel that they are most likely to be less good professionals than they are in companies. That is why we now have such a situation in this building lobby. And when he's a former minister, Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav praised the Belarusian mayors so that they can get together, so they can talk something about fast glass, here you go again, criticism and criticism of the land purchase. And I'm already here in Lithuania, where we're always afraid that there's going to be some kind of obstacle, and he's going to say, let's just sort it out right now, because it takes so many years and so many years, and then we'll see what's going to happen in that time, because in the end it's all gonna have to be paid honestly, finally settle it, and that's it. But the procedures are too long, and so we happen as they did here at the Ljubljana bypass, when the construction site stopped, I don't know how long, because it wasn't possible to talk to some about it. And so it all goes to the quality of all the buildings and to the pleasure of the people and so on. I say it's not the ministers' fault if you want one minister alone, but at least the current one, because at least the time is in that position. However, some of the previous ones have not finished their entire mandate, nor have they been able to put everything back just as it is necessary, but I say that it takes one great will to change it. It also bothers me, in Slovenia we can criticize everything, both on the inside and on the outside. And we have criticized, many times I have heard words about how bad things are in Croatia. We're told by motorists how fast roads and very good roads are built down there. Again, I don't know where the truth is, and that bothers me. I don't know where the reason is. It can also compete in too little competition on the Slovenian construction market of low buildings. Everything is focused on two large buildings that can dictate the way and the pace of the work. I mentioned earlier, and experts are probably getting the best of themselves, and then they're taking it as you can see. Let me remind you one more thing, our former party president, Marjan Podobnik, has collapsed into this field of construction. And the result? The effective political destruction of Marjan Podobnik has also done a number of great damage. In public at the time he was ridiculed with great media support, but I know very well because I am spinning in construction circles, how among SCT employees the bets were going to fall, how our old one would fall, because you know which one arranged the matter, so arranged, I speak old in that SCT company when the bets fell, who would go, or the director or similar happened differently, similar could stop dealing with it. And finally, let me just say that we are for such a plan, we are not against that plan at all. And in this Chamber we also talked a lot about the fact that Slovenia has to invest as much as possible, that production will flow, that it will be a gross social product, then we said it should not fall, but now we are talking about how much it will fall, that it will fall as little as possible. So, I want us all to have a lot of common sense and bold decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs. Franci Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. When I listen to the discussions, everyone commends little on the period during which they were involved in the construction of motorways and covers everyone else. I believe that the entire period, all the time we were working on the completion of the highway cross, marked one untransparent, uneconomic implementation of the plan. Over the course of time, the hands were incredibly closed and much more money was spent than it would otherwise have been. Let us see in Croatia, in ten times the shorter period they have made ten times the number of motorways. He mentioned earlier, in 1958 they built a 100 - mile [100 km] highway with shovels and wheels. And now it's up to this government to start doing something different. Let the Minister of Transport finally begin to hold hands. There's never been any power, no power. Now's the chance. However, I cannot go beyond what we have heard before by the opposition, who is accustomed to throwing away any candy, a quarter or even a quarter of the time, the gentleman asked himself about the financing of freebies. I hope that the relevant authorities will also ask themselves about the financing of the Express, which took place prior to the 2008 elections, which was cost-effective in advertising financed by state-owned companies. I hope this is investigated.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Jerič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Representatives of the Government, fellow Members and fellow Members! I myself will support the 2009 Annual Programme for the Development and Renewal of Motorways in the expectation that the Government will immediately undertake to make changes and complement the Resolution of the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in our country and to re-place dedicated money collected under the Law on the Provision of Dedicated Resources for the Construction of Motorways. Second, to accelerate the introduction of free movement tolling activities. This provides greater resources for development, for construction and for the reconstruction of motorways. And by ensuring greater financial sustainability of the motorway system. In my view, if the new Slovenian government does not do so in a very short time, it will be impossible to draw up an annual development plan and re-establish highways for 2010, because the derogations in view of the resolution adopted or the resolution in force will be too large. What I would really like to stress is the area of development axes. There was a lot of talk today about development axes. I took the initiative of the Committee on Transport and, of course, the Committee on the Environment in the past, on a joint meeting of the two Committees. Let's get serious about putting the development of axes into space and, of course, later on about construction. By doing so, to provide a location that does not lie at 5 or 10 motorway corridors which place Slovenia very well in European transport flows, including the possibility of development. Something was also said about the third development axis and the course of the third development axis over Zasavje. My fellow Member, Melita Župevc, spoke on this subject, and he also spoke on this subject, former Minister or fellow Member, Mr Žerjav. The truth is not as presented by Mr Žerjav. Two studies were conducted for the third development axis in the area of Zasavje. The first study was produced by Omega Consulting at the end of 2006. Following this study, the environmental, economic, transport, technical, development, transport criteria were selected as the most optimal option, the course of the third development axis over Zasavje. In this middle part, then, there was a decision at the top and a new study was commissioned, which was produced by the Development Center Celje and you will not believe, on the basis of similar criteria, as the most optimal variant was central, from Celje and Lashko to the Wall Bridge and, of course, then forward towards Dolenjska. But what does it matter? One of the criteria was dropped, which is the development criteria. Now tell me, on what criteria are these things decided? At our last government visit, the former governments in Zasavje, we demanded that the former government make a comparison of both studies and, of course, that the development moment be taken into account. None of this was done. I hope that the new Slovenian government, in particular I expect from the Ministry of the Environment, will start with a serious effort to place development axes in space and, of course, as a result, that the Ministry of Transport will also provide European funds to build development axes that will enable development, once again, to local communities that do not lie at 5 and 10 motorway corridors. Until then, we will be these local communities, as far as development is concerned, in a subordinate or non-competitive situation compared to others. Once again, the highway renewal development programme will be supported in the hope that the activities I mentioned earlier will end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to Mr. Minister with a co-worker, colleague, colleagues have left. Today, as colleagues have pointed out, we have a very current topic. Unfortunately, this year is shorter than a short programme for the implementation of the highway programme, but unfortunately I do not think that Mr Minister is to blame, but he must listen to some criticism today and perhaps his predecessor has already explained well what a difficult situation he is. However, I will stoop to all the problems that have accumulated on the highway programme over the years, which make me think that we are behind schedule, both by time component, by quality and by price. In fact, our highways are too expensive, that was already said. It is true that the terrain is a little more difficult than the plains of Hungary and so on. However, it is still not such a demanding terrain as the Canadian tundra or Siberian conditions when we have so-called permafrost, roads floating on some carpets, but our roads are closer to Canadian prices than to some Central Europeans. Today we have heard that all of this is the fault of the building lobby, which has grown with all the metastases in all the seasons of society. It is sad that the minister, by his official actions in the course of his conscientious work, later, when his post expires, receives an account from the court for something he has done as a conscientious worker. The successful project of construction of motorways in Croatia was mentioned, and there did not avoid an affair, the Bechtel affair broke out around the funding, and they are not satisfied with the quality, since the Sveti Rok tunnel was closed after the second year of use because it needed rehabilitation, which strongly reminds me of our Šišensko tunnel. Construction is too slow, including reconstruction. Right now, I'm hearing from the ground that construction companies in the best season don't work full-time, they only work basic hours, not late afternoons and late nights, because they're blackmailing the scene. Construction has been delayed due to all the complications that we have caused ourselves, either because of the financial area or because of space measures. It was said that some route had been delayed because it did not go in the right direction, where some prominents had cheap purchased plots that would, of course, have cost them 50 per cent. Of course, this is extremely irresponsible, since those areas are then lagging behind in development. We can't even get past the bad quality. Literally at the opening comes with the blue lights of the recovery team, for example, the Štuvian tunnel, not to mention, the Trojan tunnel - into a new, healthy asphalt with a haircut cut because the wrong materials were selected. Today was a talk about expertise and incompetence. I have no doubt that people have not been well trained, but I am more interested in where they have deteriorated. In the case of road transfers, the guarantees should be tightened. All of this reminds me of the case when our construction companies built a road in Iraq when they were able to correct their own mistakes at the time of the handover, because they may have mistakenly thought they were working at home. I would certainly point to something else, since motorways are only part of a traffic problem. The transport well-developed country is a guarantee for other industrial activities and in this light are certainly important connecting roads mentioned by all colleagues, 3rd and 4th development axis. Each motorway has a backdrop, which must also be used for logistical and production purposes. So when the highway program is completed, it will be necessary to take a bite into the railway programme on the basis of experience. While I am very disappointed with the news that there will be no second track of Koper-Divač, because it is a broader complex and it is essentially a blow under the belt of Luka Koper, a blow under the belt for all infrastructure in the back, as Luka Koper with auxiliary facilities is expanding in the back, and this "manka" of the railway program makes this impossible. When I mentioned connecting roads, a whole lot of things have to be done around the highway, because a lot of highways are vitally cutting down valleys, regions and areas. I think I have a letter from the mayor of Podlohnik, who warns that other infrastructure facilities are certainly included in the opening of the highway - that the valley will be so connected again and that the highway will not significantly interfere with their formerly escaped way of business and personal life. So, the highway programme includes more things, and I hope that today's debate has helped us to achieve as much as possible and to achieve the objectives set as quickly as possible and that, despite the fact that this programme has been considerably reduced, it is necessary to support and hope for better times and take into account all these comments, and perhaps once more courageously to go to the road lobby or the construction lobby, as soon as we all feel the consequences. For example, the stun tunnel felt, at least if not the other one, that German guy who got in the way of his car. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u86	The motorway programme is one which I think has also caused, to a large extent in recent years, that we have had a certain economic growth in Slovenia, we can also agree that everything has not been ideally done, that even when a project has been implemented, it has been weak or that various project repairs have occurred in the course of implementation, and therefore there are a number of problems. But I think this is one of the better projects that has been implemented in the past. I would like more of these projects to be built with my own resources not only through credits, but I support the continuation of the motorway programme and the completion of the Slovenian Highway Cross as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Absent. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u88	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! We have talked about this highway programme in the National Assembly several times, we are practically speaking at least once a year when we confirm this annual programme and, if ever, we would expect a little more ambition in this year's general situation in the programme, in the goals and in what we are supposed to do this year. In view of the pre-election and plausible predictions of those who are now entrusted with this area, we would also expect more originality. Remember, not long ago, when we heard that the previous government had made a terrible mistake when it was decided that further construction of motorways would be financed by borrowing. And look at the fraction, half a year after these decisions have been criticised, a new minister comes along, a new government with a package of over €300 million in liability for the highway programme, which is nothing wrong with the absence of a misunderstanding, especially at a time when these activities need to be supported and promoted to the greatest extent possible. It was wrong to criticise something that in recent years meant that this activity had begun to move faster with the goal of finally ending this highway cross in our country. Because at the beginning of the performance, it showed that our grandkids were going to do it. The other thing that is interesting about this story is the sustainability of financing and the criticism of the vignette system as one that has disrupted this sustainability. But here I cannot pass the latest events in this matter, which are unacceptable, unacceptable to my notions. The Minister of this Government is ordering a study to establish that the system is discriminatory and explains how the system is discriminatory before he even got the study in his hands. But we do know that the study you're ordering is probably like your expectations of whether it will eventually come from it. But our minister, Slovenian Minister, wants to argue that the vinite system is discriminatory, which is a disaster, scandal, scandal. A scandalous scandal. Our minister should be the one to defend what is indisputably clear that the system, in the sense that the European Commission considers it, is not discriminatory, because for the same distance we all pay the same, regardless of whether Croatia takes over Slovenia to Austria or Slovenia, or Austria. The same is true of those who previously paid for the same distance of the euro 50, if driven only once a year, will, of course, pay as much as is now the price of a six-year vignette, but they will all pay the same. The system is not discriminatory. And then it is normal for the Italian Minister or Commissioner to play and make fools with us. It is normal for us to fall into negotiations with Croatia if we have already 'cagled' on one minor issue and if we are not able to protect Slovenian interests already in one matter which is of minor importance in relation to all others. The wine system as currently in force is not discriminatory. There's nothing wrong with spreading it. You've upgraded it. You said earlier that he was inadequate, but now you have upgraded him, but not in such a way that we will get less money from this system than before. How should this be done? That's what you have in your hands, and it was expected that you'd do it right. I think that very many scandalous mistakes have been made here, but the worst part is that our senior officials did not know how to set themselves right for Slovenian interests. Now, about the specific parts of the program, let me just say two things. One relates to the connection to Jelšan, Postojna - Illyrian Bistrica - Jelšane, where there is also no ambition. The programme is transmitted from year to year in the same content, some studies are being carried out, although a national location plan is being prepared, but it has been in the rolling phase for three years. In a few years, this link will prove to be something similar to what we did two years ago in Prekmurje, and someone will still have a severe headache if they do not immediately start concrete activities and if they do not stop these studies and if this project does not begin to be prepared and implemented more quickly. The Minister's announcements made at the Breda Pecan meeting in Illyrian Bistrica were not exactly promising, not that of the Minister or the Minister of Environment. Somehow, it has been said, there will be nothing in this mandate, because the matter is very far away. That's bad. More ambition, more activity is expected here. But the other thing is anti-group fences. Last time I read this, I didn't even know it, I have to admit that the motorway section of Vrhnika - Postojna was the first, not only in Slovenia, in 1972, but in Yugoslavia at the time and still have no people at the Ravbar Command gas station, anti-group fences, but they were there far earlier, before this highway was placed in space. Many others received anti-group fences and protections and came later, but those who lived there before the highway arrived, despite numerous efforts and attempts, today do not have 250 meters of anti-group fence. And given the amount provided for in this annual programme, it is obvious that they will not get it this year, which is not good, is bad, because it is necessary to separate between those who had a residential environment and its highway crashed and between those who later knew what was there, moved into this environment and it is unacceptable that the one who later arrived had better chances than those who lived there and did not. I appeal to those who care about the implementation of this programme to act in such a way that they look at things a little bit in content, not just through paper, but above all for more ambition. I would be most pleased if, in the autumn, we were given some kind of amendment to this programme, which would come from this greater ambition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u89	Thank you. Dr. Peter Verlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Today's debate is about tolling, electronic tolling, tolling in the free traffic, and about collecting much more money than now with vignettes. By the way, with a new system of 15 euros, as I hear from the Government's decision, less money will be collected. But even when tolling is a mile away, users will be free to decide. And if the price is too high, surely the highway will serve its purpose by being beautiful and empty. For if the toll is too high, men will use parallel roads, which we have already experienced. The highway will be empty, and the money will be less. So we can't just conclude that the best is going to be seized from this point of view. Well, when we are talking about the electronic toll system, that was also one of the arguments in the European Commission's reasoning why we are actually introducing the vines. We introduce them in a transitional period until the establishment of an electronic toll system, which has also been followed by an action plan in the previous government, which is scheduled to end with a call for tenders, first for freight vehicles. Traveling under this plan for freight vehicles should take place this July. Of course, the elections came in between. The former Minister's decision was to make a call for a public publication just at the time of the elections, the change of government, which is why it is left to the new Minister. I have asked the written question of what is now going on in this area. On 3 June, I received a reply from the Minister that on 26 March 2009 they had received a report from the Interdepartmental Working Group, namely, the government, to tolling, and that a new action plan for the introduction of the electronic toll system would be prepared in this context. It's already July, it's been a while, and this action plan is gone, or at least I don't know what it would be. I asked myself why stalling what was going on. Then I find out that the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises in Cyprus presented, on a proposal from the party Zares, its intention was to present the system of tolling in free traffic. Here I also asked the Minister what is going on, because it seemed strange to me that the political party would go to the Chamber of Commerce, okay, this is not a matter of a political party, it gave an initiative by the Chamber of Commerce. Why did she choose to invite only the client really? Why is it closed? Why, in fact, did she not invite all political parties to say something about civil society and openly invite the general public? But when a man, then a little digging back into history and looking at the newspapers, I remember that he was presented last July 9th, look, it's almost one year away, the Viapan satellite toll project just in the open traffic. Viapan or Viapan is owned by Telargo and Tellargo is owned by Zagorska Ultre. Another interesting thing was that their project was such that it predicted to carry out tolling in such a way that the system with the protection of personal data is owned by the user, so their way is presented and the tolling system is such that it protects personal data so that it is owned by the user, even though there are different ways. Interestingly, in 14 days or 14 July, he also gives his opinion to an information officer who says that it is necessary to go carefully into the electronic tolling system. In its view, however, the privacy of the individual is the most favourable access to the data required for the execution of the tolling itself under the sole supervision of the user, an independent information officer. In short, now I'm curious, things seem to be stalling. Minister, I have already called you on the Transport Committee several times and asked you to be careful about these things, and you have also replied to me that you will not give in to any lobbying, no pressure, and also to what we have heard today, that such delays may sometimes occur because someone on the right just wants some benefits. I believe that all the procedures that will run ahead of time will run openly and transparently, especially if we take stock of everything that has been going on lately. And while we are still at the Šmarje-Sap connection, I am also glad that it is included in the programme and that we can here with a fellow member from the coalition, because we are both driving around the same end, we agree. For when the former minister gave the initiative to do this in full connection, I did not feel that this was exactly what the opposition was pleased to do. I'm glad. When things are slowing down when things don't have to go, look sometimes when things fold up, it can be nothing, but you have to be careful and sometimes some events are really a little strange. But when you see that an electronic tolling project is worth 1.2 billion euros, then you believe that there is a lot of interest in stalling things. We are lucky that, in fact, the most difficult things are going on in Europe in Brussels. But with them, Galileo’s project obviously stands, and we can still have some time to blame, and it’s good to have it. For highways are for all users, but not only for those who can afford the payment of a high toll, as it has been in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Since there is little time, I must say that I support the 2009 Plan for the Development and Reconstruction of the Highway. The Minister and the Ministry are moving forward with what they can do right now. The more he has, of course, the more he can't be debated. However, I welcome the completion of the work mainly in Gorenjska and on the Dolenjska Strak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor. I'm sorry, there's no more time. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. The annual plan we have ahead of us could be a half-year report in 14 days because we're taking it so late. However, the fact that we accept this annual plan so late is not that the opposition opposes it, but mainly because the Government has not submitted this document in due time to the National Assembly. Even when he arrived at the National Assembly, there was a blockade by the Government and a non-profit decision. However, this is a serious problem for us to work in the National Assembly in this mandate very informally, very tailored to the needs of the government coalition and not as prescribed by the rules. But the problem is, above all, that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service which analysed the proposed annual plan is that this annual plan, which we are currently considering, is not a good one, is not complete, does not comply with the provisions of the Resolution on the National Roadbuilding Programme. And the worst part is, in some of the basic items is undefined, in the chapter, we read here, they're not given the length of the sections, then they're probably not listed, even the amounts of sections and so on. In short, in this annual plan, there are a lot of unresolved issues that allow for such manipulations as are taking place during the entire period of the construction of motorways. In short, things are indefinable, allow for the theft of both lengths and amounts, allowing, because this is not defined, additional annexes to contracts, enable the construction of roads and Zidar is an expert here, that is for sure, and so on. In short, if we approach this project by means of the system act that we plan to build motorways, as the Legislative and Legal Service has established, then we have built all the grounds that these mistakes are also taking place in this work, because they must be because things are not specified and are not defined. Here is someone from the coalition, I think it was a lady from the White Country who reported to the opposition Slovenian Democratic Party that because we did not participate in the Transport Committee in dealing with this act, they were at risk of life. It is not likely that due to the consideration of this act, because we have not been able to accept this very much, but we have saved some lives, because I am afraid that any of those who should participate in the Transport Committee would have suffered a stroke because the document is so poorly prepared that it deserves criticism not only from the Legal Service but, above all, the coalition should be the one to return this act, reject it, return it back to the Supplement and then propose it again to be considered in the National Assembly. I can't get past the duality that's been happening here if I look at the comparatively previous and current mandate. I cannot go beyond this, because not only in the previous term did the current Secretary-General of the Government, who was specialising in the field of the budget, or he was specialising in all the things that we have dealt with in the National Assembly, identify many shortcomings, especially in the approach of financing, in the resolution of the financial structure and so on and in the current coalition, which, of course, we have mostly drawn up great inconsistencies. Not only did this coalition approach the implementation of the annual highway construction programme not improve, but it did not upgrade what we held back in the previous term, it even radically changed it. As Mr Anderlič has stated, even that item, which is valued with nothing, is now the basis that the Government which submitted this text refers to it. It's called the Dedicated Assets Act. This source is not available and this act is obviously still the basis for the preparation of the annual plan due to superficiality. Interesting. I think that all those who are seriously involved in the area of the construction of motorways and are specifically responsible for the preparation of these documents should be particularly careful and should know what they can introduce into the concrete act or what the basis is for this act to be drafted in such a way. There are no funds in the main. Other sources, or other sources, that are the basis for the financing of the motorway programme, are likely to be very limited in this year and also in the coming year. As the government, with a new proposal for a toll system, which is probably or not, but certainly more discriminatory than the previous one, ensured this only and arranged only that the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will contribute EUR 40 million more to this vignette system fund, and that a joint annex with domestic and foreign users of the motorway will be some EUR 7.8 million lower than it would have been if we had preserved the previous proposal of the wine system and defended it accordingly. But apparently the government didn't have this ambition. More effort was needed in this direction to show or prove that this vignette system was not good. That was the point of this debate. And by trying to banalise the previous system, the tax is a lower increment in the budget, there is also a basis for selecting a modified, probably modified supplier of the electronic tolling system. This is probably a step or step towards a step, we are coming to this model and to what was previously presented and what colleague Verlic said very well. I would expect the Government, which says that investment needs to be stimulated, to give investment a significant weight, and to increase investment management funds, including for the construction of motorway investments, and that by making investments an important part that contributes to the growth of GDP, by increasing investment on roads, by reducing or mitigating the so-called free fall of GDP, which the Prime Minister of the Government was talking about on Monday. This means that the Government has not taken any action during this period to halt the fall in gross social product. Not at all because he was talking about a free fall in GDP. And I suggest or would make sense that the government would seriously consider what measures are those that help maintain a high level of GDP. If we can no longer guarantee minimum growth, we could maintain a minimal decline, as has happened in many of the countries we are working with, but our fall is twice or three times higher than in those countries, especially because these measures are inadequate. And the second rebalancing that is now under preparation is an excellent opportunity for this investment part of spending to be increased, upgraded, and thus provided jobs and jobs for many people. With social measures alone, unfortunately, GDP or gross social product cannot be maintained or maintained. As far as the highway is concerned. It also has a lot of resources in place in this programme. In fact, we can find out that these roadblocks are now, these renewals are substitutes for frontal toll stations. Now that we have somehow made it possible to release traffic with this flow through toll stations, we are setting up obstacles of another nature and these obstacles on highways are enormous. And I regret that the Minister, in particular because of these congestions that appear on the highways, is applying or testing the English traffic regime to the right-hand traffic of the column in traffic. I think there should be another way to deal with these matters. The big problem with this act is also that somehow some programmes are not being opened, which, while in the Resolution on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways, are being introduced that these things are somehow left behind. There has been talk of some traffic axes, some complementary or additional programmes, and unfortunately there are not many things going on in some or more of these matters. Even where it might be the easiest. I must say that I myself proposed one such highway connection in the 2004 resolution, this is the famous connection in Škofljica, which was then hung by the entire supplementary programme or all the developmental axes, but only a month or two later, the Minister of Environment and Space sent to Brussels, where this amendment was entirely covered with Nature 2000. It was no problem to remove the entire planet from Nature 2000, Vremščice, from the left hand, so that it tried to achieve some agreement on wind power plants. It is difficult or impossible or willful, but it has been preserved or extended to Natura 2000 precisely this area where this link could be built on the southern rim. Even now that Natura 2000 is in force, it could be significantly different to approach here. It might be possible for agro-measures to move the story of the commotion in the Ljubljana Bar, that famous butterfly. In order to get the commotion to the reserve for these matters, to have enough surfaces and to move there this famous butterfly hill, if this is such a big problem. But apparently all the resources covering this area, so environmentally, agriculturally, transport, do not find a common language and, despite the fact that the funds in the budget have not done so, I will say, in this sense that Natura 2000 is being repaired, no step, which is extremely problematic in its own view. All that happens at these meetings when we meet in these years was that it has been said that there is no way that policies are harmonised and so on. It is now an ideal opportunity for these policies to pull together, for example, to prepare a comassation in this area of the Ljubljana Bargain, to unite these agricultural areas and to make a reservation for all those wild animals that are wrong in this area and to move these things there, and thus to relax the corridors. If I go back to the highway program or the annual highway construction program. I mentioned earlier that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is such that it speaks of the great guise of this annual plan with undefined items, I must say that many of these were introduced into the annual plans even in previous years, perhaps this has not been precisely identified, but it has certainly been, and this has also resulted in the implementation of the highway programme to enormous incentives, builders and so on. It is no coincidence that we have proposed the establishment of an investigative commission, which would have reviewed the entire period of construction of motorways since 1992 in particular, since during this period the value of the motorway programme, at virtually the same quantitative scale, has increased by four times, although some important and long sections of motorways have not been built in the dimensions as agreed or ordered. There have been large deviations in dimensions, in the width of the belts, in the absence of withdrawal belts and many others, and in the meantime there is likely to be a significant restructuring of all companies building Slovenian motorway programmes. There has been a number of difficulties in the area of tenders, perhaps many of the behaviours of such ones that show that they were agreed upon to apply for the invitation to tender, since in some sections the unsuccessful tenderers then acted as subcontractors to those who received the investment. This at least gives rise to suspicion that these cases involved cartel arrangements for the construction of motorways. As in this case, when we confirm the annual plan, and even in the next case, when we consider the guarantee law that will cover half of the annual programme and we will give the money for undefined items, or the coalition will probably confirm it, even these practices and these things cannot be accepted without political involvement. It is said that policy is decisive in this road programme, entangled in all stages, practically in all processes, even in the national location plan, does not go beyond policy. And it is right for such a difficult programme as the State has imposed to introduce an investigative commission to clarify the involvement and conduct of all those who had special will, a particular desire and a particular interest in participating in the implementation of the road programme of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Madam Member of the White Country, the only thing I know, which was mentioned in Mr Tank's debate, has agreed to the replica. Here you go, Mrs. Brunskol.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Since I have been appointed, I feel obliged to make a replica of Mr Tank's opinion in order to allow for a possible stroke on the proposed Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of the Highway Network. I wish it hadn't happened to me. And I also believe that it will not, because if someone really did take a good look at past events or as you yourself have pointed out, even for the back of a matter, it would probably be possible to mention anyone else - but I don't mean mags here. Radovan Žerjava as former transport minister, who mentioned earlier that he, for example, gave the project on the 3rd development axis the task of what to do, but if his employees did not carry out certain tasks, unfortunately, the minister may also be powerless, which I believe him. I am sorry, however, that in the past it has not been attempted to put out the fire to a greater extent or to do more with favourable or high economic growth, since now it is not necessary to be surprised and somehow conclude that any of us will have a stroke. However, that serious traffic accidents are taking place, that is a fact; one has already happened today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The Minister of Transport, Dr. Patrick Vlačič, applied for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u98	Thank you, Vice President. First, we adopt the programme one month later than last year when the previous government proposed it. It's a month late, but we had two rebalancings in between. So we had to align first with the first balance, then with the second, and that's the main reason. One of the main changes we have drawn up is the transfer of budget resources from Darsova, which is what is supposed to be going to Dars, and we have transferred those last appropriations to the DRSC. DRSC, this is the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia, which takes care of our state roads. She lost 38 million euros in the new balance sheet. With this measure, when we passed on what went on from Dars as a budget asset to the DRSC and with some other measures, we have succeeded, you will see in the budget, you will maintain just all the cuts that were already in the previous budget. We didn't want to, or we didn't want to have to take any part of the state road. Indeed, in the previous mandate, your government has significantly increased funding for state roads and we think that this was the right policy and that is why we are continuing it in this area. So, you've invested a lot in state roads. We continue with this same purpose, and we wanted to preserve this entire number of sections, which is why we took these funds to Darsa. We have estimated that with a cake as big as Dars's, it will be easy to survive this 11 million, but for DRSC, it was crucial that we be able to maintain all the projects. That is why we have assessed that this is the right and proper way. The action plan for free movement of tolls is practically clear at the end and will be in the government very soon. But with the action plan, it doesn't show much hurry. Because the EU has not yet done everything it has to. This action plan will soon be adopted, but we must be so rational in introducing free movement tolls that it does not happen to introduce something that we should then change. With regard to more ambition in the highway program. I can also agree with this, and it is precisely because of this greater ambition that I have proposed that certain rules change. Indeed, the main problem is the long-term procedures for the adoption of spatial acts. In our country a spatial act is adopted within the range, at best, for about seven years, in exceptional cases before and usually up to eleven years. These are long periods of time. Then there is documentation for the preparation of the building permit, the building permit, the decommissioning, some parallel procedures. However, greater ambition is possible if you have things in place. This is precisely why we have proposed changes to spatial legislation, but to line infrastructure facilities. It is said that we would have different, simple procedures for putting infrastructure into space. Although I have to say, when I spoke to my colleagues on the TTE Council, with other ministers from other countries, we still want to improve it, despite what I mentioned earlier, what I said was a successful time frame, even through the old system, because many of the countries that we consider more developed than our own are less successful, say, Sweden or some other. Thus, greater ambition is in place, but under the conditions I have now mentioned, one is spatial line legislation, one is decommissioning rules and the other is public procurement systems. All these procedures will be amended, we have proposed amendments to these rules in order to make them more ambitious in putting this infrastructure into space. With regard to the renewals, I can say that the renovations still in this year's programme may be very burdensome, and I have recently requested Dars to prepare proposals for amendments, which we will then propose in the national programme, which is the basis for the production of these LPRs. Such renovations as we have now, although relatively fewer, actually place a heavy burden on our roads. The easiest thing to do is to ban the renovations, and I say, "There won't be any reconstruction, they would have been able to hold the roads during this term."Believe it, this would be a very nice move, but of course this is not going to work, so I asked to prepare an action plan that has short-term measures, this is shorter deadlines, transparency to know exactly what construction is going on, then to work from morning to evening and a set of works that can be done at night. I've already asked you to work all day and all night. Then they tell me that this is not technologically possible and will now be seen on the Internet a set of works that can be done at night, so that every taxpayer can see what is done and what is not, why the workers are there, how many are there and why they are not there and why they are not there. People are willing to wait for renovations, only anger them if there are no construction workers, I understand that. As a result, the system will now have to work on the Internet in 15 days, this was my request to Darsa, in which when you drive past the construction site, you will be able to look at what is done online, from time to time, how many workers, and if there are no workers, you will have to write on the Internet why they are not. That's, I think, fair to our taxpayers, so they can know exactly what's going on. Of course, they are the deadlocks and the crowded part of our daily life, and no one has a magic wand to drive them away. Mobility in the Republic of Slovenia, even after the entire period of self-sustainment, is mainly provided by personal vehicles, so that, of course, we will be difficult to change from today to tomorrow. However, we will, too, have proposed asking Dars to prepare whether our roads can withstand as much traffic as they grow exponentially after entering the European Union. If they saw the curve, they'd know what I'm talking about. So if it fails, then our ministry will draw up systemic measures and change things on our roads, but we need this information from them. They were planned for different transport volumes. Can I, Mr President, because Mr Tanko has spoken about the Shkofljica, answer a little in two words. Yeah. This is not part of this particular matter, but I can tell Mr Tank that since I've come to the Ministry, I've been dealing with this department that he's interested in and right. There's a section there, so there's a part where we can't go across because of a turtleneck. Then there's one part where it prevents the construction of the road due to archaeological protection. It is one part that prevents the infrastructure from going through because Škofljica municipality received European funds for the craft zone. Then it is the part that could go to Fox, which seems to be the least burdensome or the easiest way to handle it, but it is. The above-mentioned section, costing between €27 million and €55 million or slightly less than €50 million, while this section, which appears to be at least technologically the best, to the Fox River, would require a connection to the viaduct and the expansion of one tunnel, is extremely financially demanding. If that's the way we're gonna go, then we can go to this section. If we make a different decision, we will have to look for a solution within one of the three that you mentioned earlier. But I agree, we have quantified it, now we have numbers and we will make a decision very quickly. We are working on this, we have already quantified sections and we will make a decision quickly, however it may be, people will not be burdened where there is really much traffic and development, that their quality of life is actually hampered by this quality of life.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you very much. All Members and Members of Parliament who wished to do so have been given an opportunity to debate. However, since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask, does anyone still wish to discuss the Rules of Procedure, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure? I'm reporting time to start the debate. Eleven Members and Members have been notified. Given that it is 46 minutes of time, I give each Member and Member of Parliament four minutes. Here you go, Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I had no intention of calling back because in the previous performance, I had pointed out those key things that were important for the part of Slovenia where I came from. However, I think it would be good for me to have one more explanation here regarding the findings in the debate that, in the previous term, when the time of so-called fat cows was not all that could have been done. These findings are ridiculous, unjustifiable, because the very way of financing the construction of motorways in the previous term has contributed to the fact that many sections have been built faster and completed. And this is certainly a mistake of past mandates, because if it were built in such a way as to finance it with credits and tolls to pay off those who use roads, today in Slovenia it would be completely different development, decentralisation and a large number of deaths. So this concept was certainly correct. Last but not least, if we remember when highways with budget money were built in previous mandates. The result was that our state roads are in desperate condition even now, despite a significant increase in the rehabilitation funds in the past mandate, particularly for the rehabilitation and maintenance of state roads. So, also now is the way that credit builds, either by my behavior or by me, the right way, but the way of tolling is as bad as it is now for Slovenians. I think that this price of vinjet, which is now after the new 95 euros, is unfair. Because we Slovenians have been building with the help of our money on this highway in recent years. Foreigners who burden these roads would do well to pay more. Nevertheless, I hope that this annual plan, which is now here, will be realized. However, I would once again appeal to you, Mr Minister, that you really personally engage primarily for a section of the road past Trebnje to speed up the work, because there is a dynamic too slow and that those complications that are resolved as soon as possible to connect this part of Slovenia with the world. I think that's what we all expect. I hope that you will understand the need for me, the Members from this work and the economy as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Alan Bukovnik checked out. Dr. Peter Verlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Because you just mentioned the shell casing and the variants. I have addressed a written question to both ministers, who are responsible, in fact the Minister of Environment and Space, even more so because he is the one who has to understand from both answers that this option going on against Lisic, perhaps for those who do not know where this Fox is, that means that it goes somewhere before Škofljica through the tunnel and then climbs up and comes to the viaduct, to the highway, that is between the two tunnels, between Šmarje - Sap. [[...]] There's something I'd like to draw your attention to. I think this option has been excluded from further studies. From your answer, I now hear that this option could be placed. But the answer you wrote down reads as follows: The variant alone is €26 million, which is cheap if an additional €57 million is provided for highway facilities. In short, I'm afraid we're about to begin the Shredder tunnel. Please, Minister, you're looking like this now, but this is the beginning of the Štuvian tunnel. The full connection to Shentvid started exactly like that. First this solution will be full connection, then we had to withdraw the solution, find some option that will be cheaper, and eventually we reached the full connection. I think the answer that is being offered is that the cheapest option is going to cost 26 million, and then 57 more are added, but I think we have to look at these things more broadly. I do not believe that Nature in Brussels cannot be unlocked for that part of the road across the Bar, which would serve much more in the place of Škofljica, Lavrica and the wider area of Iga. And there, I think we're going, of course, to the great joy of building a lobby that would have a job for quite some time if we were to take such solutions. Please, the 26 million-to-57 solution, but I think it's just a little bit more serious. That's what I think when I read that answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished President! To begin with, I would like to explain some of the things that have been said here in connection with the free movement toll system, and I regret to disappoint all the conspiracy theories, which, unfortunately, Mr Verlic has also been counted among me. I myself understand the debate held at the Chamber of Commerce of the Sea as an initiative of one of our members, who is very involved in this. I assume that the fact that the other parties were not invited is, of course, the autonomous decision of the Chamber of Commerce in Primorsk that other parties did not have this idea. That's what this is about. I think it's always good to look at different ideas, evaluate them professionally, tell them whether they are feasible or not. Now we've all come to realize that the idea of vignette is probably overwhelming, like any other idea, from where else. That a closed and open toll system isn't what you want. And, of course, that's why every idea is welcome. Whether it's feasible or not, time will tell. It is not surprising, however, that in every technological solution that is more modern than a motika, shop and shovels, Zagorska Ultra is involved and part of some of the monstrous octopuses that some see and dream about seem to be. Another thing I'd like to mention. If we all mention our constituencies, where we come from, and the needs they have for me to feel deeply discriminated against as a member of the Lower Shika. Not only does my constituency not have a highway, my constituency doesn't even have a state road. That is why it is difficult for me to ask the minister any question or make any wish. However, since I come from Kranj, I would mention that there are also people in that area who want the Kranj highway connection, which would actually be the Kranj highway connection. It's just one of them in the keel and the other one in the keel. Whether this matter is now politically conditional or not, they will be able to judge everyone involved. However, I think the reasons for this connection are at least as much as the reason for the mentioned box. Of course, political comparisons by this or other government, which gave priority to this or that one, are also likely to hold back in both cases, but money is never enough, of course not for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. However, as regards the settlement of the Škofljica Oblast, and transport in the Škofljica area, it should also be further clarified that we must not mix two matters, one is the construction of a fence estimated at EUR 26 million, and the other is essentially tunnels, which are already located in the section against Dolenjska and not because Kočevska would join the highway, but because of the already existing traffic, these tunnels need to be increased. In fact, if we look at the projected traffic loads for 2010, say section towards Dolenjska: Malence - Ivančna Gorica, rating 43.166 vehicles, if we look at the direction towards Maribor, say in Šentjakob, there are 3,1.250 vehicles foreseen in 2010 and for Šentvid 34 000. The direction towards Primorska in Brezovica, if you count traffic, is larger, namely 47,800 vehicles. So this is already an existing traffic towards Dolenjska, which is why we have to remove this bottleneck, but it is only 100 metres long, and I think it is necessary to fix it on both sides, one way or another, on the existing 5 and 10 European corridors. Here there is no dilemma as to whether this is an integral part of this investment or not, but these two investments are separate because the tunnel is needed already because of the existing traffic on the currently built highway. The second is the connection, which, of course, allows it to be normally connected to this motorway cross from a nomadic direction and, of course, this part of Slovenia is also included in all the developmental flows that enable European transport connections and, of course, transport links in Slovenia, which are an integral part of the European Union. In short, the solutions in the annual programme, the current annual programme, allow only and only that traffic on the main road, which is already more than 18,000 vehicles, can be unloaded as soon as possible and is impossible, so that this is the fastest measure at the same time, which can bridge the period until construction, of course, of the normal road connection, which we all know will not be realized in such a short time, since I have already mentioned the amounts. About EUR 2 and a half billion will have to be provided for the development axes, and I think we are all aware that this will not be possible overnight, that of course it will have to wait, maybe even 10 years before this project is implemented so far as we can say that it is possible to reach the final stage. Of course, I hope you do not imagine what traffic will be in the Škofljica area or also in the motorway area towards Dolenjska in ten years' time if one of the biggest traffic loads is already foreseen at this section in 2010. So these solutions are consistent with the current transport situation, especially the burdens and I think they should be addressed as a final priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, 18,000 LDP vehicles are on this section of the Box every year. That means basically one tunnel pipe, according to the data you have. So, just this, moving traffic from an existing road to a highway leg means one tunnel tube. And enlargements cannot be compensated by adding another tube, collecting all the increased traffic from the north - south direction, and an additional 18 thousand or at least 18 thousand vehicles a day. I don't think that bill works out. In my opinion, it is much smarter to gather the will to set up a corridor of up to 26 million euros and arrange what Natura 2000 requires for half of this money. Otherwise, we need two more tunnels on each tunnel for additional flows of this traffic. However, whatever the decision may be, the current government coalition and the services of the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of the Environment, and whatever the solution, we will have to face and deal with it in the coming years. Our ambition is to arrange this connection as soon as possible and not too expensive, not in a way that we will pay for it as it happened in the Kentucky tunnel. However, I would like to point out that we have dealt with a number of issues in the field of transport awkwardly this year. With regard to the regulation of vignettes, for sure. Since we will, despite the drastic irritation of the vines and that we will pay the citizens significantly more, almost 50% more than we have paid for the vines so far, I will "cash" less. So we will get less money from the marketing of traffic to pay intergenerational solidarity obligations, which many of you have disputed in some previous debates. There is probably no other way than intergenerational and the problem is that this will reduce an important part of our resources as a result of a decision taken by the Government. And this part, this exit from the area of traffic marketing, this is called toll, will have to be covered in some other way. If prices are higher, revenues will be even lower and it will have to be added from the state budget to pay off the loans. The second part, which is also very problematic this year, is excise duties. We have not reduced anything with excise duties as regards traffic loads. With increased excise duties, we have only reduced the revenue of the state budget. We are now monitoring these records that diesel fuel consumption has fallen dramatically. It is said that trucks transiting Slovenia significantly less fuel in Slovenia, but significantly more at all pre-accession and entry stations in Slovenia. And this part of the transport policy, if I take it that way, or the financial part turned out to be extremely bad. And we should do something in this area as well. And the third part, which is extremely problematic, is that the motorway section, which has been placed on the market, deals with it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Five more years of construction. [[...]] For five years, he's been assigning all kinds of side effects, drainage, and I don't know what else. In short, the approach to the construction of highway sections is extremely poor. And the resources we have are [[...]] [[Exclusion of the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u110	Thank you, Chairman. A well-known minister, colleagues and colleagues. I am very pleased that the Minister is actually continuing the work of the previous government, because in the past there has actually been a lot of talk about how reckless and unwise it is to be in charge of the highway cross, and thank God that the Minister has actually had this part of the hearing and is in charge of an additional thirty million euros. For the highway cross is of strategic importance for Slovenia. I would absolutely like to draw attention to one fact that I do not see any parking arrangements for ADR transport in this investment plan this year. Recently, a week ago, 14 days ago, we actually adopted a new code of punishment for ADR transport. In Slovenia we have no parking space - how can we implement these fines? In Lenart, in fact, one resting place has not yet been completed, I believe and I hope that you will have enough hearing to make repairs with much lower costs and arrange that resting place or parking lot for ADR transports so that at least one transit parking space across Slovenia for ADR transport will be available this year. I also warned Minister Kresal to coordinate and talk. I also see that it has actually fallen out of the plan of activity for the Lenart Binding Road. I have already asked you one question about this, and I have received an answer that somehow the congregation has not prepared certain matters. I must admit that two mandates ago my fellow Member, Janez Kramberger, was opposed to that connecting road, but this connecting road is of strategic importance for this part of the Slovenian Mountains. Because it connects and passes the entire region to Radgona. It was therefore important and also conditional for this connecting road to be constructed parallel to the Prekmurje motorway. I hope that this part, if not this year, will, at least in the second year, have a hearing for this connecting road. I would also like to emphasise the issue of tolling. Indeed, the predecessors have already talked about how Ultra actually presented in Cyprus at the Chamber of Commerce, not the Chamber of Commerce, the actual toll system or ultra tolling. You know, I would like to point out that, in fact, we don't go into some kind of day-to-day solution. Let's go to a European solution. We know that this Galileo project is kind of blocked, but I would like to ask you, Minister, it's certainly wise that we successfully solve these things and not go into these one-day projects. I would also like to point out that we have actually lost very much tax money on excise duties. At least we make excise duties so that the fuel will be as pricey as it is in Austria or Croatia, because all foreigners are refueling elsewhere, and here they leave a nuisance, if I may say so. So it is very important in this part to take a step forward and that we can actually have more tax [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Bunskole has the floor. Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. I would suggest that we consider the possibility of taking away the immunity from Members of Parliament, that they will also be responsible for their lies here. In fact, we have heard a number of lies when, for all possible and impossible things, Ultra's presence is attached. I would therefore suggest that we consider this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u113	Mr. Kek, you know, immunity is regulated in the constitution. A certain number is needed to amend the Constitution, I think 20 Members and Members. When you collect so many signatures and proposals, the debate on this will turn to glass. However, I would like to warn you that she has already run twice without any special results. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Today's debate is on the validation of the annual development plan and the renewal of the highway network. Given that we have already discussed today, I myself will certainly support this plan, no matter how much anyone likes it, but it is right to look back too, otherwise I think it is right to look first and that we are trying to solve everything that is to be resolved. I do not think that we are inclined by times to see that in times of economic and financial crisis it is certainly so much more difficult for us to complete the highway network as it relates to the highway cross. There's been a lot of talk about that today. Therefore, I am also assessing that any injury in such or otherwise or the exchange of information between companies is not entirely correct, but everyone has the right and is in favour of what he declares. Therefore, I will also advocate for the motorway network, especially in the area where I drive daily, i.e. the bottom leg, to be completed as soon as possible. However, I absolutely support that Gorenjska, also Radovljica, including Pomurje and everyone else, as well as in Primorsk, that things are being completed, that we may later be able to settle down, as one of our colleagues has said, and that perhaps we will continue to make another state road in areas that are currently discriminatory for us, for those of us who do not go directly to our area, as I do to the White Country, the highway, but I do not regret it at this moment, and I will probably have to think about it in the long run. However, I think that the direction of the Minister and his leadership is also correct; that in the field of rail transport and air transport, as well as maritime transport, it is also working in this direction and that we are really trying to be as effective here as possible. As far as the third development axis is concerned, as I said. I wish the Minister of Transport himself to have a slightly better hand in his staff so that he could learn a little more about a project than your predecessor, mag. Radovan Žerjav, who I mentioned to him earlier. When, for example, an agreement was reached for the preparation of projects of the third development axis from the New City to the White Krajina, but unfortunately, it did not move forward for about a year in the past. But I do believe that things will move on in the process of unification. But it is true that we will all have to be patient and also to find the means. There are also areas from Koroška further, as well as colleagues from Zasavje and other areas, the Church-Idrija, where there is a need for a quality transport connection, so surely each of us wants to work for the well-being of all Slovenes and Slovenes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Gumzar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, of course all present in this Chamber. I will, of course, support the proposal for an annual development plan and a re-establishment of the motorway, mainly from one simple point of view. I come from an environment where, last year, we actually got the first kilometers of highway and we have previously choked in traffic and we understand what the highway means for the normal development of a certain environment. It is true that it would be even better if more money could be spent both for construction and for the reconstruction of motorways, but by stealing from the economic and other situations, I do not think that this is possible. I would also like to highlight the binding road in Lenart, which my colleague Bezjak spoke about. At the time of the adoption of the spatial implementing act for the construction of the Pesnica - Lenar motorway, we had, in saying, "promised" also a connecting road past Lenart or along Lenart. Today we find that this connecting road is essential for those involved in the Lenart market. We can call it such a busy road or a connecting road. If we have any option in the 2010 programme, I would ask, Mr Minister, to include this connecting road in this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Well hailed, Mr. Minister and Fellow, President and dear colleagues. Today, we have just had one rich debate about the route of the past twenty years, about how and how we solved the problem of building our different, such and different crosses, motorways and so on. I think that this runaway path is rich, and we can learn a lot from this runaway path, even from mistakes. The mistake has been quite a lot, perhaps we will find another one, but I think that despite all the optimism it must be, we must not lose the energy or the will to solve things further, because it is a recession at present and is a state, as it is, in this situation has undermined the possible ways and solutions or the rapid construction of everything that has been planned. Since I am a Ljubljana girl, I cannot decide how and how I would define myself, which part of my road. And yet, I think that's what even Slovenia is after. Mobility as such is a problem and will remain a problem. Ljubljana feels this problem all the more, the problem of indevelopment of public passenger transport, whether local or different. I don't think we should lose our energy in designing and developing this segment. I believe you have this energy, and you will continue to know how to use it somehow. Perhaps during this period, one could say that more energy could be devoted to the planning segment and look at the possibilities; from "park + drive" systems to connecting rail and bus transport with individual traffic and others. Because the environment is the only one that can't say, "Listen, I'm hurt, I'm polluted," or the pain caused by pollution is manifested in another way. These pains will manifest themselves because of pollution from year to year and will be felt by all, not only by the inhabitants, but also by nature. I will certainly support the proposal for an annual programme, because I think it is the only way forward. I believe we're going to take him out or you're going to do a pretty good job with your team. However, let us not forget the possibility of developing other transport and transport safety segments, so that we may pay more attention and debates sometime. I hope that that will give rise to the expression of all artistic ingenuity and the possibility of discussing others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Bezjak, the debate on this agenda item is closed. Be kind to us regarding procedural proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u120	I will, absolutely. Only so much so that my fellow Member won't say it's a lie. There's evidence. I just didn't want to give him the original.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u121	You explained your position, which was not a procedural proposal. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u122	Hello! In fact, I no longer intended to discuss, but I find after all these discussions that some come from the opposite side of this hall, I do not know whether they have congenital greed or persecution. It was said that the article "Bad Roads and Idiots" was mentioned. I regret to read this article superficially days ago, but it was then said here in the Chamber that the article was obviously ordered with the aim of discrediting Members coming from the Vipav Valley, because in my opinion the Members coming from the left political options are also deliberately excluded. I'm from the Lower Vipava Valley, too, and I don't know what this has to do with today's debate. It was further said that this delay by building a fast road on the Rebruns was actually a political project on the left. Please, what are we doing in the air in Ljubljana or where? And when I spoke in my debate, I made it clear: for three years the delay was due to public procurement, I did not threaten Mr Žerjav, the former Minister, not the President, nor Janša, nor any one. The way in which calls are made is that everyone can block and not be liable financially or otherwise for this block. That's a mistake. That's why we haven't built ribs in seven years. Well, it has been said that we can take the shovel into our hands, perhaps all 90 Members, if we ever did something with a shovel, it would be better than here to discuss in an empty debate without a great effect. Well, in the end, it was said that it was obvious that the new authority would be able to cut the strap on the ribs. Three years ago it was true, we knew that we would have our SD minister and that he would cut the tape. I hope it's not the 1st, but the 3rd of July, not the 31st. And then there will be no question of left, right, Vipavska Dolina, Member of any option, the road will be our joint and that we would only have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal for a decision on an agreement to the annual plan, we will be held today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.05. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the consent and growth of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Dars, D. D. From credits and issued debt securities for the implementation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme of Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia amounting to EUR 329,73 million, urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u124	The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u125	Thank you, Vice President. The Law on Consent and Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia is part of this system of construction of motorways and is closely related to the regulation we discussed or to the programme we discussed earlier. The Law on the Consent and Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for Dars liabilities from credits and issued debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia of EUR 329.73 million provides financial resources for the implementation of the Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways for 2009. Given that the annual plan has been amended, it is also imperative to adopt a new proposal for a Dars debt bill of €329.73 million instead of the original proposed debt of €323.70 million. In view of the need to provide financial resources for road sections and other items under this year's development and re-establishment plan, and also for the following year, we propose that the National Assembly's proposed law be adopted in accordance with the urgent procedure for the adoption of the law. The law will allow the conclusion of contracts for the rental of credits and the issuance of debt securities for the realisation of motorway sections from the national programme totalling EUR 329.73 million. The basic terms of the debt amounting to EUR 299.73 million are reflected in the bill itself. The funds of credits or debt securities will be used to finance the construction of road sections of Šentvid-Koseze; Peračica-Podtabor; Gruškovje - border with Republic of Croatia; Želodnik-Mengesh with obobrovnice; Gorišnica-Ormož; link to Luka Koper, second phase; Mengeš-Žje; for the financing of traffic control and management systems on the motorway ring Ljubljana - north-east and south rails and at the motorway section of Slivnica-Pesnica; for the renewal of motorway networks in 2009 and for other items from the national programme and this year's planning act for the construction of motorways. The law also gives consent and guarantees for short-term bridging for a period of one year of EUR 30 million, for the volume of Slivnica-Drazenci and Beltinci-Lendava in the event of a drop or undue drawback of funds from the Cohesion Fund. The amount of EUR 299,73 million in debt will be the source of the concession fee and the amount of EUR 30 million in additional debt will come from the Cohesion Fund. So this is the whole financial structure. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Mr Jank Webr, President, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u127	Thank you for your word and a nice hello to everyone again. At its 6th urgent meeting on 10 June, the Committee of the National Transport Assembly held a hearing on the draft law transmitted to the National Assembly by the Government on 22 May 2009. In the opening presentation, the Secretary of State, Dr Igor Jakomin, presented the objectives of the draft law which allow for the timely provision of the necessary resources, which are a prerequisite for the award of works, the start or completion of the construction of motorway sections, as provided for in the resolution on the National Road Construction Programme or in the Annual Development Plan and the renewal of the development of motorways in 2009. The representative of the Government also presented and stressed that the law gives consent and guarantees for short-term bridging for a period of one year of EUR 30 million for the section of Slivnica-Drazenci and Belntinci-Lendava in the event of a drop or a misappropriation of funds from the Cohesion Fund. By adopting the proposed law, the Republic of Slovenia will guarantee the fulfilment of Dars commitments totalling EUR 329.73 million to lenders or buyers of debt securities. The law also addressed the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development in the State Council and in its opinion supports the proposal for a law. In doing so, it proposes to the Government to rationalise the cost of investment in motorway construction and public procurement and thus contribute to ensuring the financial sustainability of the motorway programme. The Commission also points out the need for the early introduction of an electronic road toll system that will ensure the financial sustainability of the motorway system and satisfy the criteria for fair payment of the use of transport infrastructure, as well as for the Ministry to prepare an amendment to the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also gave an opinion on the law and commented on Article 1 on the term of comparable credit, which it considers to be insufficiently fixed. The Slovenian Democratic Party's delegation proposed that the Committee adopt the amendment to the title of the draft law and to Article 1. The Committee did not vote on the proposals for an amendment to the Committee, as it was found that the amendments were non-constitutional and had been identified by the Committee as irrelevant. In the discussion below, MEPs pointed out that the amounts set out in the draft law, as well as the amounts set out in the explanation of the law, were inaccurate due to the rounding of the amounts to two or three decimals. The applicant also committed himself to harmonising the text in his explanation. The debate was also about the amount for which the Republic of Slovenia gives consent and guarantees with this bill. In doing so, the members of the Committee considered that it was important, however, to which extent Dars could entrust himself, that the law should not limit the value of individual sections, since the spillover of funds between individual investment values and motorway sections is usually and more operational, since it could follow a real need. They considered that the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia should be updated and that the way of financing the construction of motorways should also be checked. They also pointed out in the debate that Dars should develop a financial analysis of individual projects and determine how much of the planned funding was exceeded. Since amendments to the draft law were not adopted at the home labour body in the second reading, the Transport Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Jerič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u129	Mr Vice-President, Minister for Transport with a Fellow Member, Honourable Fellow Member and Fellow Members! In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law on the consent and guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for Darsa's obligations. The bill under consideration provides one of the financial resources for the implementation of the 2009 Annual Programme for the Development and Renewal of Motorways. The law will allow the conclusion of a contract for the rental of credits and the issuance of debt securities for the realisation of motorway sections in this year and next year at a total of some more than €329 million. The proposal for a law and already the adoption of similar guarantee laws on the basis of which Dars has accelerated the conclusion of the credit agreement and the issuance of the bond in recent years are the logical consequence of the contested decisions of the previous government, which has changed the financing system for the motorway construction project and the toll system for passenger vehicles. The almost complete abolition of the budgetary financing of the highway project of the previous government cannot be changed within a few months, at least not without major and unpredictable consequences for public finances in the context of the deep financial and economic crisis. Above all, not without serious measures, how to maintain the highway construction programme in the long term financially sustainable following such moves by the previous government. Due to the loss of resources from the State budget, it is envisaged that in 2009 the debt is higher than that foreseen in the resolution or in the national programme for the construction of motorways. The government has opted for less than €11 million of earmarked resources between the two poor options and has earmarked the state road network, which some cannot understand. While praising the moves made by the previous government, they cannot understand the fact that the abolition of budgetary funding and a smaller source of funds for tolling passenger vehicles under unaltered other conditions inevitably leads to additional indebtedness and thus to the deterioration of the long-term financial sustainability of the motorway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia. It is necessary to know that Darsa’s current debt repayment obligations amount to just over EUR 166 million per year and that these commitments will increase to EUR 280 million over the next five years, without additional indebtedness and without the maintenance of motorway infrastructure. This brings the burden of repayment of credits to future users of motorways, so we would expect users of highways all together, especially from the biggest opposition party, to pour clean wine and say that they will never ride on Slovenian highways at such a price as they are driving today. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to another consequence of the flat-rate tolling of passenger vehicles. If we collected tolls on the toll system this year, which was in force until 1 July 2008, we would collect 144 million euro of toll money on passenger vehicles due to an additional 100 km of motorway sections. The optimistic scenario following the recent adoption of the Law on Public Roads provides for revenues of €86 million for this year and €15.30.95 slightly over €92 million for 2010. This year's shortfall will therefore theoretically be at least €57 million. We will pay the future users of the motorway or they will be paid or paid through the state budget by all taxpayers. There is no or no third option. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the proposal of the law, because we do not see any other solutions to this moment, except for additional debt. The early completion of the basic programme, the launch of projects from the additional programme and projects on the third and fourth development axes are of national importance to us, as well as, of course, the modernisation of the Slovenian railway infrastructure, which is as a project in the eternal shadow of the construction or projects of Slovenian motorways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Ms Renata Brunskole has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u131	Hello, Mr. Minister, Mr. Director, Mr. Vice President, all present. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats we support the Proposal for a Law on Consent and Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Dars, d.d. from credits and issued debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. The bill also allows the conclusion of contracts for the rental of credits and the issuance of debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, amounting to EUR 329,730.000. The funds to repay the loan will be provided by Dars, d.d. from the means of concessional duty. With regard to the loans and securities issued in the amount mentioned above, work will be carried out in accordance with the Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of the Motorway Network in the Republic of Slovenia in 2009. Given that there has also been some dilemma at the Committee on Transport's own meeting with regard to this proposal for a law on consent, guarantee and so on, I think there is no problem that it would not be support, since on the one hand it is an annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways and, on the other hand, for the consent to guarantee the rental of credits and issued debt securities. So this is about the completeness of both matters, and in the Group of Social Democrats we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Verlich has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u133	Your Honor! On 7 February 2006, the current high-ranking official of the Government, then as a member of the opposition, said on the proposal for a debt law, Darsa, that it was an irresponsible act that put the Slovenian model, not in the European model, but in the Balkan, Argentine model of high debt, without ensuring that Dars could return the money. This senior official was signed today under the proposal of the Government, which sent to the National Assembly the Proposal for a Law on Consent and Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Dars, d.d. from loans and debt securities issued for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections under the national highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia amounting to EUR 329.73 million. If the current coalition were consistent, it would not have put such a law into the procedure at all, and the annual plan should be based on different assumptions of funding sources. However, it has not done so and has only acknowledged that the concept of funding from the previous government mandate probably could not have been poorly pursued. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the task of building transport infrastructure is not a bad debt. In these tense times, such indebtedness can mean promoting economic growth and preserving jobs. After they are built, the motorways will mean a new quality of life and mobility and internal cohesion in Slovenia. It is certainly also an intergenerational project, as these motorways will also serve our descendants. With regard to indebtedness, we are always concerned about Darsa's financial sustainability, particularly due to the repayment of the debt associated with the amount of the toll collected. This is where they appear in the government coalition as the main problem of so-frozen vineyards, which you have not stopped, but only to predict this intention before the elections. No! No! You have completely changed the system of vignettes without need, summarizing the government's collection of between €8 million and €20 million of money, rather than maintaining the existing system. Since this debt proposal also includes the possibility of borrowing up to a total amount of EUR 30 million as a safeguard for European funds awaiting the blessing of the European Commissioner for Transport, there is one more argument why the vignette system had to be changed. European funds, by the way, reach only 4% of all necessary funds in the entire financing structure of motorways this year. However, it is the retention of European funds - it could be a strong argument by which the Commissioner could be asked to release funds because we had to do so because the Commission is unduly holding back these funds. He also tried to talk about this on the Transport Committee by our fellow Member, Mr Cernač, and some members of the coalition committee were so upset that the Chairman of the Transport Committee, Comrade Montenegrin, had to silence him. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that financial sustainability can also be ensured through more effective public procurement, increased competitiveness and the extreme rationalisation of all costs. Already in the presentation of the annual plan, we said that we could save between €50 million and €100 million already in this annual plan. And if there is any reason for our concern, it is in this part that we are talking about the use of funds under individual debt items, that money will be spent carefully, rationally and with all conscience, that is, with the care of a good master. We can start in the National Assembly. In reviewing the annual plan that we have discussed earlier, and this law that we are considering now, we have found on the Committee that the amount of items in both documents varies by EUR 4 000 in one of the items intended for the highway section of Šentvid-Kosese. On the committee, we proposed an amendment to simplify values in both documents, and the chairman of the committee rejected this possibility. I believe that such carelessness, when it comes to money in terms of EUR 330 million, does not mean much, but it is not a good signal for those who will now draw this money. You know, if it doesn't matter to Members of the National Assembly that the numbers don't match - well, in the parliamentary group we call on at least the professional services to redefinish and coordinate all the numbers, if there is any other error. If I conclude, debt remains yet another source of funding. Hopefully, even if all vehicles were to be towed in free traffic today, money would have to be taken with considerable reservation. We know that the higher the toll, the greater the outflow of passenger cars and trucks to the side roads, and again the less money we collect. Even the side effect of higher tolls, beautiful and empty motorways, crowded parallel roads and requirements for new and new bypasses beyond settlements that should not yet be built. And it costs money. Only the source is different.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We have before us, as has been the case for so many times, a proposal for an agreement and guarantee of Slovenia for Dars liabilities from loans and issued debt instruments for the realisation of the construction of highway sections amounting to EUR 329 million. This is a bill that is undoubtedly due to the current financial and economic crisis, past wrong decisions by the government and the inadequate toll system introduced by the previous government. Since this is an extremely high budget outage, with which state roads are being built and rebuilt, the only responsible course is the adoption of the consent and guarantee law for the construction of Slovenian motorways. As it is said, this is an extremely high €329.73 million needed to build up what we have decided together and what we are responsible for. However, regardless of the current situation, I would like to call on the Government or the competent ministry to draw more appropriate and, above all, more effectively on the European funds available in the Republic of Slovenia for the construction of the highway, and in particular on the proper control of the construction itself, which has been ineffective and insufficient in the past, and therefore the level of resources has increased unreservedly. In the Parliamentary Group, we will really support the bill in the hope that there will be no more anomalies in the future and that the completion of Slovenian motorway sections will be carried out quickly, transparently and qualitatively.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u137	Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary-General with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government has set out the text of the proposal for a law on the consent and guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for Dars liabilities, amounting to EUR 329.73 million. The adoption of this law is also the basis for the adoption and, of course, the implementation of the 2009 Annual Plan for the Development and Restoration of Motorways, and the two acts are therefore interdependent. Let me begin by saying that the DeSUS Group will give its consent or support to both acts. The main reason for our support is that our Group will not be one of those that would hinder the smooth implementation of both the national highway construction programme in our country and the fulfilment of the annual plans for the development and renewal of motorways. We believe that the road combination is essential both economically and socially. Despite our support for this bill, which will increase the Republic of Slovenia's liability guarantee by EUR 330 million, we believe that a stable source of funding should be provided for the construction of motorways. We do not consider the State guarantee to be a stable source of funding, but not at a time of financial instability, since there is so much greater likelihood that the payment of this amount will soon pass on to taxpayers, so that Dars will not be able to repay these loans, which will therefore also encourage the highway project. Undoubtedly, a more stable source would be Europe's non-refundable resources. Of course, if we had not confirmed this law and the state would not have given a guarantee, Dars would have been able to obtain loans, but only on a significantly higher interest rate or under stricter and more expensive conditions. Therefore, Members of the DeSUS will support the draft law in order to ensure the continuation of the construction of motorways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again a nice greeting to the Minister with a colleague, a colleague and a colleague! It is perfectly normal to only support the 2009 annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways to support the financial transfers needed to achieve the objectives outlined. And it is perfectly normal to stress once again that the consent and guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for Darsa's obligations is not the only consensus and Slovenia, as a state of such consent, has already issued something. Slovenian debt exceeds several times the debt of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; we have already owed two generations in advance. However, if this guarantee is a condition for the award of works, I would once again knock on the Minister's conscience that this time the broadcast should be transparent, legal and workable in accordance with the Treaties. Let this not be an old practice, the continuation of the old practice that we signed one day, the second day we got the annexes to the contract and the amounts were significantly higher and the quality of the work was significantly worse. Today we have the opportunity to see that everything that is done is being very intensively repaired, restored, and in fact the warranty hands have not even expired yet, but we already have on every other km of construction on the highways, the highways are not even highways anymore, but they are one construction site. The galleries, the tunnels are collapsing, they're jamming. Of course, in this case no one is responsible for the quality of the work done and if we do not find responsibility for those who have otherwise signed to do their job of quality, once again, Minister, part of the responsibility will fall on you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u141	Respectable present. Do we support the urgent procedure in the Slovenian People's Party Group? The government and the minister are late because it was enough time to prepare the necessary changes in time, as there are no problems since yesterday. But in the Slovenian People's Party Group, we only support the law from the simple fact that construction must continue as planned and be completed as soon as possible. Everything else means embezzlement and chaos on our roads. It is worrying that at the end of April 2009, we have already exceeded EUR 2.78 billion in debt in the Resolution on the National Road Construction Programme in the Republic of Slovenia, the estimated value of the debt to implement the programme, which is expected to amount to EUR 2.61 billion at the end of 2013. In order to continue the implementation of the proposed programme for the construction of motorway sections in the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia of €329.73 million, as the Minister says, the only option is to agree and guarantee Darsa's obligations. This will allow the timely provision of the necessary resources, which are a prerequisite for the delivery of works, the start or completion of the construction of a number of emergency motorway sections. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposal for a law that provides the basis for the implementation of the 2009 Annual Plan for the Development and Reconstruction of Highways. With the adoption of the proposed law, the Republic of Slovenia will guarantee the fulfilment of Dars' obligations to lenders or buyers of debt securities, which will ensure the ongoing implementation of the programme for the construction of motorways on emergency sections. The law also gives consent and guarantees for short-term bridging for a period of one year amounting to EUR 30 million for the section of Slivnica - Draženci and Beltinci - Lendava in the event of a drop or an irregular withdrawal from the Cohesion Fund. There can't be an exit. In our view, it is unacceptable for Slovenia to give up the cohesion funds it owns, and we do not advocate for giving up on the price of vignettes. We will support the guarantee that urgent constructions continue and at the same time we expect the minister to do everything he can to ensure that cohesion funds for the sections of Slivnica-Drazenci and Beltinci-Lendava do not go out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u142	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment to the draft law has been adopted by the mother labour force, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. POINT OF THE DAY - TO THE THIRD DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE SUPPLEMENT OF THE ACT WITH ASBAST, IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. I should give the word to the representative of the Council of State, but it's not there. I therefore continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bevk has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Slovenia has faced the harmful effects of asbestos dust in production and around production facilities for at least 35 years since the 1970s. Asbestos was used in Slovenian, for example, in Maribor from the second half of the 19th century and in the Soča Valley from 1921 onwards. In the last three decades, the medical profession and some companies have begun to warn about these problems, especially Salonit Anhovo. At the level of the State, the first asbestos law was adopted in 1996, which prohibited the production and transport of asbestos products and regulated the restructuring of asbestos production into asbestos and also regulated the social rights of employees. Therefore, MEPs and Members from all parliamentary groups, together with their first signed colleague, Bredo Pecan, proposed a law which was unanimously adopted. With the so-called asbestos legislation, we have practically dealt with all five references to the National Assembly. Asbestos is a commercial name for a group of natural fibre silicons. The asbestos fibres are very solid and resistant to heat and chemicals and have been used for many years for heat-insulating materials, fire-resistant fabrics, brake linings, asbestos cement products, electrical insulation materials and personal protective equipment. Asbestos was therefore very widespread and asbestos producers made great profits. Since 1946, Slovenian companies have imported more than 670 thousand tonnes of asbestos, of which 614 thousand tonnes or 89% for the needs of Salonite Anhovo, and produced 7.3 million roof tiles, a half-second million of them cement-asbeste pipes for plumbing, almost two million pieces of brake linings, 770 thousand tons of glues, with asbestos, have restored more than 15400 wagons. The largest asbestos consumption was in the mid-70s and early 1980s. It was not until 1970 that asbestos exposure was officially found to be highly harmful. The safe exposure rate is not defined. The longer exposure time, the greater the risk of asbestos exposure. It may take up to 40 years between exposure and the first signs of disease. Many of the consequences of asbestos exposure in the past are revealed only now. In Slovenia, production and transport of asbestos products were banned in 1996, as I have already said, but asbestos is still present. Due to the widespread use of asbestos, asbestos fibres in low concentrations are present everywhere, mainly in urban environments. In Slovenia, most of the roofs were covered with asbestoscement salons. The harmful effects of asbestos are particularly pronounced when bathing, milling, transport, production, maintenance, use, work or disposal of products or materials containing asbestos. The risks cannot be avoided even with the application of all prescribed measures. In Slovenia, asbestos was potentially exposed to up to 23,000 workers in asbestos processing factories. It is a little harder to estimate the number of workers directly exposed to asbestos. Data on the morbidity and mortality of exposed workers show that they are at greater risk of dying from lung cancer at 35 to 49 years of age than the same age group in the general population. There was also an increased risk of death due to gastrointestinal cancer in the 40 to 54-year-old group. Until 1997, there were virtually no cases of asbestososis as a professional disease in Slovenia. This changed significantly after the adoption of the so-called asbestos law in 1996, which established an effective and functioning system for identifying occupational diseases for workers working with asbestos. From September 1998 to June 1, 2009, 2,539 cases were dealt with on a special committee, of which 800 cases were not confirmed by occupational disease and one of the asbestos diseases was found in all others. The Act banning the production and transport of asbestos products and on the supply of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production entered into force in October 1996. It was originally designed to help Salonit Anhovo, who found himself in a difficult situation when the production and transport of asbestos products were discontinued. The law provided him with budgetary resources for the restructuring of asbestos production in an incorruptible manner, while also depriving him of responsibility for the social security of workers working with asbestos. The State has also taken over the payment of compensation to workers suffering from asbestos. Later, the law was extended to other companies in the country using asbestos. On the basis of the asbestos law, workers were able to exercise the right to a pension under more favourable conditions, the right to acquire the pension age at the expense of the state budget and the lump sum compensation for the health damage suffered by asbestos. The Ministry of Health also appointed a special interdisciplinary group of experts to identify occupational diseases. The right to a pension under more favourable conditions has been enacted with a view to ensuring the social security of workers who have become technological surpluses. Until 30 June 2005, 1,451 decisions were issued to workers from 13 companies who met the conditions for obtaining a pension under more favourable conditions. The total estimated amount of these pensions was about three billion dollars or 12.55 million. In Slovenia, companies processing asbestos have long successfully avoided compensation responsibilities towards workers who have become sick because of working with asbestos. In the former Yugoslavia, state authorities and the health system did not recognise the harmful consequences of working with asbestos. Thus, the majority of the workers exposed to asbestos did not even know that their illness was caused by professional work and therefore did not file compensation claims. Since 1991, however, the knowledge of asbestos damage has expanded, and many asbestos workers have been preparing claims for or expected to be compensated for their health problems. Thus, in Slovenia in 1996 it was stipulated by asbestos law that the country assumed the obligations incurred to pay compensation to workers who were sick of this occupational disease. By 30 June 2005, a total of 1,372 injured persons had received from the state budget compensation for health damage caused by asbestos about EUR 3.2 billion or EUR 13.38 million. Between 2006 and 19 June 2009, an additional EUR 2,330 million was allocated for the implementation of the law, the largest of which was paid for damages. Despite the provision of compensation under the asbestos law, the victims also decide to recover compensation on the way to justice. The reasons can be found in the wish of the injured persons for the higher damages they expect from the courts and in regional discrimination, since the law originally saved only Salonit Anhovo and his workers, and the activities of the asbestos union. The new law of 2006 continued to regulate the identification of occupational and other diseases and the reduction of life functions due to exposure to asbestos dust, the recognition of lump sum compensation for diseases and the provision of the right to a pension under more favourable conditions. The law referred only to the removal of the consequences of asbestos work, but not to the harmful effects of exposure to hazardous asbestos. It therefore applied only to workers employed in asbestos production, but not to residents exposed to asbestos in the immediate vicinity of production facilities. That asbestos problems in our country are still not taken seriously enough, we also bear witness that we discovered a new focus of asbestos patients in Slovenia a few years ago, in Slovenian railways, in a company that is 100% owned by the country. The company therefore sent 100 workers to the hospital in Golnik in December 2005. However, these survey workers have said that, after asserting the management of the Slovenian Railways, they will have to work with asbestos for another 10 years, even though the legal ban on the use of asbestos in production has been in force in our country since 1996. Of course, that's outrageous. We were also appalled when, two years ago or a few years ago, constructionists in Celje, some of the abandoned industrial buildings of Cincarna were simply mined, so that the dust of asbestos cover spread uncontrollably among the inhabitants in the immediate vicinity of the city. The medical profession points out that 2,100 workers and former workers suspected of occupational asbestos disease were dealt with by 2005 and 95% from the Soca Valley area. Between 1964 and 2002, 365 mesotheliomas were discovered in Slovenia and about 1,700 of all certified occupational asbestos diseases have been found among workers so far. The inclusion of the population as a vulnerable group around production facilities and the recognition of mesothelioma as an environmental disease would therefore have no and no significant financial implications for the state budget. The Netherlands and Belgium have similar solutions. As I have already said, about 23,000 employees were exposed to asbestos in Slovenia. The peak of asbestos disease due to the long latent period to the outbreak of the disease is expected by the medical profession from 2025 to 2040. Forecasts in the European Union over the next 35 years speak of 250,000 dead and, according to the worst forecast, 400,000 dead. At the beginning of January this year, we were informed before the meeting of the parent committee that the Government was to draw up a negative opinion on the amendment of the law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work proposed by the State Council with the first-signed Councillor, Mr Rus, which would result in the rejection of the law in the National Assembly. That is why we have proposed in the Group of Social Democrats that it would be better to support and improve the law at least in the part that talks about tackling the consequences of working with asbestos. That part of the content of the law that talks about eliminating the consequences of asbestos exposure is the environmental aspect, and it is the other way around. Thus, during this period, we have had a great deal of coordination to come up with these solutions, which, of course, do not satisfy all the affected. Nevertheless, the law on eliminating the consequences of working with asbestos is much better than it is now. The amendment of the law also solves, among other things, those problems that have occurred in practice during the implementation of the law itself. Since 1996, there have been several asbestos laws in the procedure. Thus, together with our colleagues, Josef Školč, Ivan Bozič and Vojk Čeligo, we submitted the first novel in November 2003. In 2005, we renewed the law and gave the government time to prepare a new one. The National Assembly has, therefore, been continuously engaged in this major health and environmental problem since 1996, and it has also been dealing with the dilemma, whether to include solutions for the environmental exposure to asbestos dust in this law. As of December 2004, the Government, on the basis of the views of the special inter-ministerial working group, has concluded that all potential contributors are included as a possible starting point for the creation of a new law. These are employees or former employees in the production process and service services who have come directly or indirectly into contact with asbestos strip, as well as residents due to the environmental exposure of asbestos to the diagnosis of asbestos disease mesotheli. On the question of June 2005, the Minister of State is the Minister of State for Human Rights. John Drobnič replied that the government intends to solve the so - called environmental exposure to asbestos in this law, but that prediction did not then come true. In addition to this proposal, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly points out that the amendment under consideration extends to persons who have been exposed to asbestos outside the workplace, taking into account the environmental aspect of asbestos diseases, which means a change in the concept of the law, which requires the adoption of a new law. Therefore, at the proposal of the Group of Members and Members of the Coalition, the Home Committee adopted a special decision calling on the Government to address asbestos issues comprehensively, including the environmental aspect of asbestos exposure. The environmental aspect of asbestos exposure is not such a problem that we cannot solve it in a new law. Let me repeat, from 1964 to 2002, we have in the entire Slovenian space "only", in narcas, three hundred and fifty cases of mesothelioma, which is on average less than ten patients per year. 95% of all these worst forms of disease were on the radio five kilometres from factory courtyards, where asbestos production took place in one way or another. So it is not the whole state territory, apart from the Soča valley with Anhovi we have in Slovenia some other potential hotspots of this worst asbestos disease, i.e. Izola, Ljubljana with Medvods and Domžals and Maribor. One third of the mesothelioms fell on Maribor, because from 1860 to 1986 there was a factory of rolling stock where pure asbestos was used. Sadly, the majority of the patients did not realize that they had died from asbestos. Asbestos exposed workers in the shipyard, who now live and get sick in neighbouring Croatia. In the last ten to thirteen years, diseases have also occurred in the gastro-intestinal pool. Experts point out that most asbestos diseases will not occur due to latent periods until 2025 until 2040. This makes us all the more bound by the law to save those who have also suffered from environmental exposure to asbestos dust. At this point, I call on the Government to take the decision of the parent committee very seriously, because, as I said in the second reading, delaying the resolution of this problem from the mandate to the mandate would be unbelievably both for the Government and for the National Assembly and for us Members dealing with this problem. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u145	Good-bye, everyone. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Working with asbestos.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. At its 6th regular session, the National Assembly held a second reading of the law on the elimination of the consequences of working with asbestos. The content is, after long-term coordination between representatives of the government, Parliament and, lastly, among the victims before us for the third time, I can say, harmonised to the extent that we can support it with a peaceful conscience. 1The bill was tabled in Parliamentary Procedure by the Council of State with the first-signed Andrej Rus. It is a novel that corrects the shortcomings of the existing law. It was not until 1996 that we received the first law in Slovenia, which definitively confirmed the extremely harmfulness of asbestos. In 2000, an asbestos patient union, SABS, was then established, now a relationship that has been working for a long time on initiatives and warnings to bring about changes to the current law. I am confident that it is with the present law that we will draw close to the desires of the affected. The main motive for the novel is the law currently in force, which has taken a major step back in the previous mandate, since there has been a limitation of rights and disease identification procedures have not been properly established. The trend of the novel is, above all, a more appropriate response to the situation on the ground. The applicant also extended the Leniency Guide, but the Legal and Legislative Service warned that this could not be done in a single law because environmental responsibility is also involved in this case. However, I will point out for the second time that we were also reminded of the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Communities on 30 April 2009 to adopt the judgment that Slovenia is severely lagging behind in the transposition and adoption of environmental responsibility legislation at these points. I therefore reiterate that, due to the external warnings and the very awareness of responsibility and the principle of fairness, we hope that, in this mandate, there will be sufficient motivation to take the initiative, together with the Government, through appropriate legislation and other laws, to address environmental issues properly. Asbestos is still present in the environment, which means that some of us do not have the constitutional right to a healthy environment. We will really support the amendment of the law in the Group of Members, and we expect the Government to provide us with legal bases that will fully address the issue and ensure that disease will no longer occur in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. Here you are, on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! The position of the Desus Group on the amendment of the law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work is as follows. We therefore have before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Working with asbestos. This law has already been subject to a number of controversy and perceptions in the previous term that it discriminates against people who have suffered from exposure to asbestos, even though they have not worked with asbestos. These people who lived in locations near asbestos-treated facilities were not entitled to the rights that those who directly worked with asbestos had. Both suffer severe consequences on their health, which unfortunately sometimes ends tragically. According to our assessment, it is high time to deal with this pressing issue and to ensure that people who have become sick only because they lived in the vicinity of asbestos factories are treated equally. In particular, we welcome the provision that the country will fully finance the cost of treatment for patients with mesothelioma. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we express our support in principle for the complementary proposal of the law before us, provided that the Government holds the conclusion that, in cooperation with the competent ministry, it will prepare an environmental law that will oblige polluters to bear compensation for their irresponsible and unwise conduct that will and will have adverse consequences for human health and the environment. The proposal to amend the existing law, according to our assessment, still means moving forward, as it actually extends the range of beneficiaries and gives the opportunity to obtain rights for those who have not had them so far, i.e. those who have been sick for this disease due to the proximity of their residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Asbestos is certainly a subject that we have been meeting with in the National Assembly for some time now, and we are trying to settle this problem, each one of us in his own power. We have also made great efforts in the Slovenian National Party in the past to address this problem satisfactorily and the proposal for a law amending the Act on the Elimination of the Implications of Asbestos Work, which we have before us, partially eliminates these injustices that have been caused in the past. Why am I talking about injustice? Who is to blame, if not the State, for the fates of many individuals and who is to blame, if not the State, for the environmental aspects of the consequences that are as they are today as we record them? And when we wanted to join the parliamentary forces in eliminating these consequences, it was always the end of words because the bills ended in money. We also fully support this bill, which is today, because it is about regulating the rights of a group that has been exposed to asbestos in the past, but it is not what we would like. The Slovenian National Party would like to see the environmental dimension included in the law as a whole. Dear colleagues and colleagues, what is the fault of a child who lived near a factory that had a few tons of asbestos a day? And he was also ill with a disease that would result in death. And what is the blame of those people who had their settlements near this factory? If we are to speak of a satisfactory way to address the consequences caused by the State in order to include the environmental dimension in the new amendment of the law. Asbestos is also present in isolations sold by the State for good, quality insulation material. And let me give the European Parliament, for example. The old European Parliament was undisturbed when they found that the walls contained asbestos. We also have some criticisms that are being replaced by a subsidy given to the owner if he is willing to replace it. We still have old water systems from the saloon pipes that contain asbestos, which are also slowly replaced. However, we also have factories, Mr Bevk has already said this before that I do not say that it is still used there regularly in the production of asbestos. And it's in a state-owned company, it's mostly owned by a state-owned company. I am talking about Slovenian Railways, the Central Workshops of Slovenian Railways. And yet in fact this is still present, even the wider users are exposed to traffic when you go to the old train composition, there are a few hundred kg of asbestos, in the wagon walls of old classical suits. And to compare I will give the old Slovenian slave policy again: when we sold locomotives to Italians, the old Slovenian locomotives to Italians - for them they were good, 60 million people were ready to buy them, for us Slovenians who were rich, these locomotives were no longer good - the Italian buyer first placed the condition: clean me of these locomotives asbestos. And our workers did this in central workshops, our locomotives, which have a slightly more exemplary yearbook, and they still drive the same type with asbestos, as well as train compositions. Inspectors know that, and the Labour Inspectorate knows that, but nothing happens. I would like to say that we respect the European Directive and the European Directive adopted on 1 January 2005 prohibits any use of asbestos. And if we refer to any directive that we immediately implement into our legislation and give it priority over every law, you should also be reminded that Europe has already adopted a directive in 2005. The code is 199/77/EC. And this Directive completely prohibits the use of asbestos. I have heard from two government parties today that they are calling on the Government to fully respect today, I hope, the majority of the laws adopted and to provide the necessary means as soon as possible for the implementation of what will undoubtedly also eliminate the trauma of individuals, as there is no need for diagnosis of money for those who are already ill. Isn't it a bit unusual for a government party representative to warn the government and the Prime Minister to come from this party? Marriage, if it is adopted and if it is legally valid, then there is no dilemma here not to be respected. I think that it is only necessary to continue to be upgraded and to introduce what I am talking about now that we have deliberately released: this is an environmental aspect. And if the environmental aspect of the law, which, as it is now, is the subject of compromise and is likely to be accepted as such - already said, we fully support it - if we have three full years in our mandate, we will not do so, we will cause new injustices to those who will be sick again. For, as has already been said today, the latent period is great and the number of patients will only increase over the years. Not the smaller one, because new ones and new ones are coming. As the opposition Member who has this right, I now really urge the Government to consider being a proponent and in about a month's time when these crises in the economy will end or when the Slovenians and Slovenians are better off, to recast this law, which will also contain the environmental consequences of working with asbestos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor. Please, a procedural proposal by Dr. Luke Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u153	Thank you. I propose that because I think it is more terminologically relevant that when we talk about the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia, we do not use the discriminatory expression of Slovenia and Slovenia, because we know that many people are not of this nationality, but that we are talking about Slovenian citizens and citizens or, if we want, Slovenian residents and residents.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I'm sure that's not what the previous speaker meant. I'm pretty sure. Mr. Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party support changes in the law, although we believe that it would be the duty of the Government to prepare a new law and properly regulate the issue, even for those who, due to asbestos, have become ill outside their jobs, which, of course, cannot be regulated in the existing law. With the amendments adopted, the Home Committee has practically amended the original purpose and text of the proposed law by the proposers, who wanted to amend both the title and the original concept of the law. The content of the original law was to address the consequences of asbestos due to occupational exposure to asbestos. However, the Council of State wanted everything to be addressed, including those who became ill outside the workplace. Certainly Members of the Slovenian People's Party support the basic purpose of the law, helping the affected and the sick. We agree that it is the responsibility of the State to deal with the consequences and to prevent new consequences from occurring, and whose burden should be to address the inappropriate and dangerous use of asbestos and asbestos products in the past. Current or current forecasts for 2010 show at least 58 new cases of diseases in Slovenia. We will support the law because we agree that the beneficiaries are also those who have come in any way in contact with asbestos fibres in their professional work. That is why we have also supported all the amendments of the Government and the Committee, which are practically amending the original amendment and supplementing the law. With regard to the sharing of responsibilities, we believe that we should look for other sources, not only for the state budget and employers who will be further burdened in these times of crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Greetings also to the representatives of the Ministry, all of you colleagues and colleagues! Of course, when a problem is solved for a long time, surely everyone is welcome and important, even a small step in the right direction. Right and normal, though, is that we all want and certainly need more. With the removal of the consequences of asbestos exposure, our country has been dealing with it for half a second decade. During that time, the legal regime improved and updated, the rights expanded, the responsibility of businesses and the state was crystallized. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have been listening all this time to the problems and demands of the affected and have helped and actively participated in the legal incentives and supported them in every way possible. This time it is certainly no secret that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we are not fully satisfied with the bill prepared by the competent committee due to various legal concerns. Even with this novel, unfortunately, it will not be possible to make a leap to address the consequences of working with asbestos to address the consequences of exposure to asbestos, even though the State Council, as a proposal for a bill of law, has tried to do so. Even in the Liberal Democracy, we have advocated for all these years that due to respect for the principle of justice and equality, the affected and affected by asbestos must not separate the former factory fence. That is why we do not care that we will have two species affected after the election of this novel. Those affected by occupational exposure to asbestos and those affected by exposure to asbestos in the living environment, for example, only a few ten metres away from the production plant where asbestos was used in the past. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have agreed, through a few months' treatment of this novel in a different way, on the concept of environmental liability of pollutants, in this case asbestos fibres, and on the State's subsidiary responsibility. At the same time, we assess that the current legal regime for environmental responsibility in the environmental law and the compensation for the liability of this issue cannot be satisfactorily addressed. That is why we have also drawn up a decision which was adopted unanimously by the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and by persons with disabilities as a working mother. It calls on the Government or the competent ministries to proceed without delay with the preparation of appropriate legal bases and other measures for the early implementation of asbestos monitoring in the environment for the rehabilitation of asbestos-contaminated areas and to examine the appropriate legal basis for regulating the rights of citizens and citizens who have suffered from exposure to asbestos in the living environment throughout our country. While preparing its opinion on the draft law under consideration, the government has adopted a rather similar decision, which is less binding and, above all, leaves affected citizens and citizens who are sick or, unfortunately, will only be sick because of exposure to asbestos in the living environment and their rights. In doing so, we are, of course, predicting a careful monitoring of the work of the Government on this issue, especially by closely monitoring the activities of the Ministry of the Environment and Space, both in the area of the exercise of environmental responsibility in practice and in the field of environmental asbestos management and related remedial measures. Otherwise, in the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we certainly support other improvements brought by the bill. The law certainly becomes fairer within the professionally neglected category, gives it minimum procedural guarantees, faster procedures, and also changes the conditions for the right to a disability pension and gives the affected a right to priority treatment in active employment policy programmes. The positive changes brought by the bill are something else, but we are pleased that minimal coherence has been achieved with all the changes, including with the Association of Asbestos Patients of Slovenia, which are needed and also an important interlocutor. Although the bill does not address the comprehensive problem of addressing the consequences of asbestos exposure, which obviously requires a different legal solution, we will be united in our support for the bill in the Liberal Democracy Group. Of course, I would end up taking this opportunity to warn citizens and citizens that there are still tens of thousands of tonnes of asbestos in our environment and that it can also be potentially very dangerous, and therefore, of course, the recommendation is still applicable to avoid all activities resulting in the release of asbestos fibres into the air, but also to control those who are or are supposed to be authorised to operate asbestos products as well as waste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u158	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u159	Nicely greeted. My colleague Bevk has really chronologically presented the issue, and if I allow myself to commend Mrs Jeraev for not having incurred any debt, and I don't know if today needs two and a half hours of debate, because apparently and fortunately at least there is no politicisation at this point in the agenda, as it was today in the morning. Of course, I will be pleased to vote in favour of the adoption of this bill, it is too late for many, but there is always a need to resolve things. Unfortunately, it was not possible to include in the text of the law a union of asbestos patients, which brings together a large number of affected and at risk, but nevertheless a good document is coming into life. I would point out, however, that it is indeed necessary, as has already been pointed out in the committees, for the Environment Ministry to approach a serious solution to the problems. Today we are talking about asbestos, asbestos patients, asbestos, and we have Montenegro in Koroška and so on, not to mention the black points in Slovenia that will have to be solved. So we will not run out of work if we want to be equal to all those threatened with various or dangerous metals or asbestos and so on. Of course I'll support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u160	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Asbestos marked both the workers and the surrounding inhabitants, or all those who had any dealings with asbestos and asbestos fibres. That asbestos was harmful, it was also known when production was still in full swing, but then there was no interest in stopping the profitable business, which was in some way a priority, regardless of the consequences of human health. Asbestos, of course, appeared everywhere, in almost all sectors of industry, so today it's hard to say who was the most threatened. Somehow the issue focuses on companies that have been closely linked to asbestos products and the surrounding population. The law is certainly necessary and must be written in such a way as to cover a wider range of beneficiaries and absolutely all businesses and their workers who have been in direct contact with asbestos fibres. The right to compensation must be guaranteed to all victims. Asbestos products are a problem for both local communities - water pipes, school shelters, kindergartens and so on - as well as the local population, as most of the roofs on houses still have asbestos panels. This would, of course, indicate that the State would financially support the removal of the above and thus accelerate the replacement of hazardous criteria. I support the proposal of the law because it guarantees the rights of treatment and compensation to all beneficiaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u162	Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support changes to the law, but we are more inclined to prepare a new law. That way everyone, including those who have lost their jobs due to asbestos, could be treated. So we support the basic purpose of the law to help the affected and the sick. Unresponsible conduct will now be paid by all taxpayers. And what's more important? That the consequences are fatal and long-lasting in human health, as the current 2010 forecasts point to at least 58 new cases. I'm also wondering where the insurance companies are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u164	Mr. Franz Puksich. [[He's not here.]] Ma'am mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u165	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, Members and distinguished Madam Secretary of State! I will support the bill and join my colleague Brulco in commending our Member Sam Bevk for the accurate presentation of the chronology of dealing with the consequences of working with asbestos. I followed part of the amendment of the legislation in the National Assembly, and I am sure that there were almost no debates at the time of the law so emotional and, at times, I could say, populist, like those associated with asbestos or the law on the elimination of the consequences of working with asbestos. Nevertheless, we cannot say that all the dilemmas in this regard would have been adequately resolved. I am sure that the environmental aspect will also be better, more appropriately taken into account over time. In this law, I would like to point out that it is likely that the fate of working with other harmful substances cannot be compared with the consequences of working with asbestos, but it should be noted again that the issue of occupational diseases, the elimination of unhealthy environments and the identification and recognition of occupational diseases associated with harmful substances is a matter. It may be possible to better manage them, to admit them more, because some occupational diseases are hidden under various other diagnostics. The name was Mnemonic. Finally, working with lead is also harmful for workers and workers in the glassworks Rogaška Slatina, now that we have heard so many times about Rogaška Slatina and the glassworks. Other substances could also be mentioned, but what I would like to pay particular attention to sometimes happens that we declare a big event, we call the media, we publish interesting videos and we forget what these videos and these events mean to people's health in the area. I mean the demolition of buildings in the area of the former Cinkarna Celje, and more than that. But what I'm more concerned about right now is that at a time when we're witnessing to a lot of traps and traps of damaged roofs, and if I remember last year's footage of how they removed the damaged roofs without adequate protection, I'm afraid there's going to be a lot of such cases in this year's captures. But let's just say that we are now partially aware of this or aware of it more than we were aware of before. We are not aware, however, that asbestos is in a variety of things, in a place where we are not expecting it at all and where its harmful consequences are not even realized, but of course I am not referring to the pipe of the water source of this because it is known that only extracted asbestos fibres are regarded as causing problems. But these pipes also get damaged and become a problem the moment we treat them when they're injured. There'd be a lot of cases like this. I think that our view, as we support the changes in this law, should be reversed to the future and we should reduce the number of cases where individuals can work with asbestos or with asbestos in the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u166	Mrs Andrej Černak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings from Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. When we received to the Committee the asbestos law submitted by the Council of State, we were faced with a dilemma, or with concerns expressed by the legal service, we either reject the law or make an effort to find some solution that could constitute the best possible compromise at a given time. We were aware that the whole spirit and purpose of the proposed law of the State Council would not be acceptable. Thus, we have put quite a lot of effort into all the coalition Members, the Government, as well as our legal service for actually finding an optimal solution. Finally, I would also like to mention that we have also worked closely with stakeholders and have tried to take their objectives into account to the maximum extent possible. So we have a law before us that I could say represents a big step forward. For the circle of beneficiaries extends to all those who were in any way associated with the work of asbestos or asbestos products. Secondly, it is more favourable to regulate the rights of those people who have been exposed to asbestos, who have also become ill, and thus introduces more favourable or even extended rights. Thirdly, in representative bodies, this is said to be the commission dealing with the study or treatment of asbestos patients, including a representative of asbestos patients. But like I said. Members of the coalition themselves were not satisfied with what the existing law is actually offering us. That is why we have tried, and even in agreement with the Ministry of the Environment, we have tried to find the best solution to move forward in order to regulate the rights of those who have actually been exposed to asbestos in the living environment. On the basis of this and of all the problems encountered in this regard, in particular monitoring, identification or and to what extent a specific disease is due to asbestos exposure, we have prepared a binding decision for the Government, I hope, to seek and prepare appropriate measures for monitoring asbestos in the environment, for the rehabilitation of areas in contact with asbestos, and to prepare appropriate legal grounds for regulating the rights of citizens and citizens who have become sick due to exposure to asbestos. This is said to be a decision adopted by the Committee and should be binding on the Government. It is up to us, however, to what extent will we keep an eye on the government and on when and how it will implement these conclusions that we have written down. In short, there are no bonds in the law itself, which would also give rise to obligations towards persons who have suffered from asbestos in a direct environment. There is always a dilemma before politics: whether to decide and actually apply any solution to the horror and, in fact, also at the expense of a high price or to decide on a gradual path. I am sure that in this case we have chosen the right path and will continue accordingly. In this case, I would say once again that, in fact, all of us, I will say, even the opposition, have a common interest to do as much as possible for those who have been exposed to this so harmful element in the environment. I therefore hope that there will be more examples of such good cooperation in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u168	Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Hello, everyone in the hall! We are happy to note that we will finally get this law under the roof and that this problem will be solved. People who have suffered for a long time waiting for the story to move have, however, moved. Such and similar occupational diseases are likely to increase in our country because of the exploitation of people in the workplaces, while occupational diseases are hard to recognise by employers and many others, because occupational diseases require large compensation and also require payments of 100% of patients and so on. For many years we can of course say we all used more or less this unfortunate asbestos, which I hope will withdraw from our environment in an appropriate way and that we will use other materials. All that has happened in this beautiful green valley has, unfortunately, been able to destroy this asbestos in one measure. I hope that this is a lesson for all of us and for all those entrepreneurs who have the idea of such or other harmful missions, that something like this would never happen again. I am sure that even those people who were at the last session of the balcony when they monitored and listened to our discussions and expected that we will be politicians who are here to help people, that their agony will, in fact, end and end. Of course, as I have said, I will gladly support this law in the hope that it will benefit all those who have suffered or suffer from this disease, although unfortunately many of us are no longer exactly because of the consequences of asbestos. I will support this law and, of course, expect it to save at least part of the suffering that people have had in anticipation that this will also happen as soon as possible and thank you for the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u170	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u171	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It has already been - well, it will be 13 years in autumn, which we have passed a law banning the use or production of asbestos products. On this basis, this law has then undergone some changes, which, while hindering some, I will say, may have been improvements, but more or less they have been changes that have prolonged periods when the state is still obliged to settle its obligations to patients with different types of asbestos. Sadly, many of those who have developed asbestos have not experienced it because, in particular, they are those who suffer from mesothelioma. And we're still looking forward to such patients, and I don't think those who have asbestos disease are exempt from the effects of the open environment, not from the factory walls. I have very well understood that there are certain concerns about the competence of individual departments in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but I am still convinced that the problem of asbestos treatment due to the environmental effects of asbestos could, however, be solved in cooperation with two competent or even these competent departments of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Unfortunately, we have not yet succeeded at this stage, but I am convinced that, with constant cooperation and awareness, the country is the one who must provide adequate compensation and also for some of the more normal living conditions of its citizens, regardless of where they are and what caused them to suffer from the introduction of dangerous substances into their bodies. It must also be said that our country is very slowly capping countries that have long defined occupational diseases. For example, Sweden has significantly more occupational diseases than we have defined. I think it should not be so difficult for us to look at the legislation that Sweden has, to see what the situation is like in our country, and to say that it is clear that because it is impossible to organise some of the work processes by completely avoiding the possible consequences of works, to define occupational diseases; that it is not the only occupational disease of asbestos, that it is not the only occupational disease of siliconosis, but that we are aware and that we recognize that they are still a whole species and that these people have the right to retire under special conditions; that because they work in such an environment, the employer must pay an increased contribution rate for pension and disability insurance and that these are very clearly defined criteria that can be found to be a professional disease or not. And I hope that we will come this far in this term. I am aware that there is still a great deal of effort and resources to be invested in the research, but we have very well-trained people in our health care, who can be entrusted to make these necessary efforts, so that they will not always come to Parliament with specific, special laws, but that we will cover the whole area of this issue, as regards occupational diseases, with one law. As for the disease caused by harmful substances in the environment, we know that such harmful substances are concentrated in particular environments in this country, so much so that a clear word is finally needed. Also about asbestos - not so much from the tube because we know that water pipes are happily covered with limestone, because the vast majority of them lie in an area where they run with limestone rich water; but especially roofs, different linings within public buildings that we still have. And there, for example, it's interesting that no one thinks that they should be treated as having a disease called asbestososis. I will support the law, regardless of the fact that everything we all wanted has not been achieved, and in the hope that in the next steps we will achieve the cooperation of these three ministries that I have stated, and that we will reach at least the end of this mandate by the end of some concrete solution, which will also cover the area of the impact of asbestos from the living environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u172	Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. We also support this law, even though we do not think that it fully meets the expectations of those with asbestos and our expectations, which have been significantly more ambitious and have also covered those environmental aspects that we are missing in the law. The fact is that this law stems from an agreement with the asbestos patient union and that it deals in essence with only workers who have worked in trouble stations and have become sick. The issue of those patients and those bearing the consequences of asbestos remains open in the immediate vicinity of the problem plants and in those facilities where asbestos is still used in essence. Today, quite a few such assessments were made, more or less professional, more or less flat-rate, very worryingly, the information provided by Member Friend about the presence of asbestos on our trains. If this information is true and I hope that the relevant services will also verify it and identify it, action must be taken. This information upsets not only the public, but mostly the users of this means of transport. And if what has been said is that in other countries they will ensure that these asbestos facilities are cleaned and that this is not happening in us, it is necessary to find out as soon as possible and also properly reported; because it is the health of citizens and citizens of this country, it is the health of our passengers and it is the health of all those who still reside in asbestos facilities. So we understand this law as a step in the right direction, as a step forward, as the beginning of some kind of process, where we will actually try to fill those gaps that this law does not fill. And when it comes to asbestos, it is also necessary to address the issues of other environmentally harmful phenomena. In Slovenia we are mainly missing one comprehensive analysis, one such comprehensive atlas on correlation between certain specific industrial activities and the presence of specific diseases and on density, on the intensity of these diseases in the territory itself. There was a lot of data, perhaps speculation in the past about a high level of disease with lung disease in Cyprus. And it's because of some chemical industries like Kemiplast in the area of Kopra, where we still don't know exactly what the impact of operating there is today. Other data show the worrying effects of lukewarm activities, such as bulk terminals, also in Cyprus, on the second pier. As we know, bulky cargoes are quite competent and Ankarans, residents and residents of Ankara feel and see the consequences of this terminal daily. This terminal has been there since the '80s. Despite all the assurances that they will take care of minimum environmental impacts with appropriate technology, everything shows that these impacts are and will have to be taken into account, as we now consider them in asbestos. Other sources of pollution remain that have a long-term negative impact on human health. The current theme is electromagnetic waves, radiation from some transmitters, such as a large, powerful transmitter at the White Cross near Portorož. Of course, there is a great deal of talk around these consequences, and there is little concrete data. That is why I will use this debate on the law that cures the consequences of asbestos, and I will use this debate to call on the Government and all the relevant services to begin with a thorough analysis by identifying all sources of pollution that have direct or indirect consequences on the health of citizens and citizens. We are interested, especially in the coast, in how it is possible that certain phenomena are more present in some parts of our territory and why this is linked to the presence of certain economic activities. I hope that support for this law is also a call for the final recovery of all asbestos-related and other harmful effects of other harmful substances to begin. Once again, if it is true that asbestos exists and that we live with it daily and that we travel along our tracks with asbestos, let us find out. If this is not true, let it be said publicly, if this is true, it is necessary to act as the Italians did when buying our locomotives or parts of trains. Once again, we will support, I will support this law and once again I call on the Government to continue this way, not to stop this law, because in this case we would even be disappointed. A process is about to be completed. This is an opportunity for citizens and citizens to be confronted and informed about all the risks, all the risks that exist with regard to certain activities, so I propose that a crisis area atlas be actually prepared and that there is a correlation between economic activities and specific diseases. I expose this as a Korrčan and as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, because I believe that such cases and situations are something throughout the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u174	Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President! It seems that some Members do not believe the words spoken. Okay, well, I believe if you don't believe me, then at least Mr. Bevk could believe it. True, Slovenian railways still have asbestos in their regular production and this is a state-owned company. However, I would like to remind the Koprečany that there is also a company in Cyprus that has done a good job of grinding so-called construction waste and, of course, with the money obtained from the state budget, carrying out a disputed land-miliorisation. This is Final Trading. We had already submitted, in the previous term, when we found out about this action, and also, of course, carried material to the Institute for Material Research, which confirmed this in the analysis, but this area is in the immediate vicinity of the water catchment area. And interestingly, at that time your Member, the present Member, was not at the time, Dr Pavliha, who is the neighbour of this gentleman, was not willing to report it. He didn't want to report it. That's what you know. Where are the law enforcement agencies, I ask? Why isn't the police acting in this case? Why the police did not act, for example, in the case of the former leadership of Luke, headed by Mr Kolarič at the time, they were allowed to bury in the Luke area in a so-called artificial debris of a variety of pigs. There was asbestos among these pigs. The current excavations have shown that. But of course this is of no interest to Koprečane, Mr Franco Yuri, this is not of interest to Koprečane. I'd like to remind you of that one more time. The 2005 European Directive prohibits any use of asbestos. If we are able to implement every directive immediately into our legislation when it comes to Brussels, that we do not say that we have already translated and adopted one truck of laws, and we have implemented them, and today we are also using them in a slavery way, then we will also use this poor directive in its entirety. Turn on the environmental aspect, find these missing assets and also enable those who have suffered from this, just because they had a house in the immediate vicinity, a factory that vomited asbestos into the air to heal. If you're honest, you'll do it. But the marriage is better than the previous one, and, of course, as we say, we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u176	Replica, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u177	Obviously Mr Friend didn't listen well, I didn't deny the credibility of his claims. I said, if that's true, let the state act. I believe that Mr Friend has solid evidence for this and, if he does, of course, it is necessary to act. I think he's okay with that. As for Luka Koper and the landfills, it was recently found that those landfills, according to the criteria in force at the time, had all the permits, unfortunately, unfortunately. Obviously, we weren't that careful at the time. Now, for the first time, I hear there would be such dangerous materials. It was mostly the most organic material. We know Mr Popovic's story, which has upset the Cypriot public with the suspicion that radioactive waste is also there, and it has been proven that this is not true. However, I would like to stress when such judgments are passed and such assessments are made, we need to be documented and, above all, extremely responsible, because we are creating some sort of atmosphere. Like this claim about cars, about trains where asbestos is located. If it is true, for example, if it is true, it is necessary to act if it is not, it is also an additional damage to Slovenia's already massive railways, which will have no profit from this story. But that is precisely why the truth needs to be found and a quick remedy to any negative situation. Unfortunately, the problem of hazardous landfills is repeated in Cyprus, it is repeated around the city itself with illegal landfills and landfills of construction material that are not selected, and there may also be some asbestos from these buildings that were demolished in Luka and used nicely to establish the territory of Bonifa, that is to say in an area that will also be intended for recreational space and other purposes. That, yes, is controversial and unfortunately there were no real answers. For only the Ministry of the Environment, after having found an irregularity, has unfortunately adapted to this irregularity, because some centres of power in Cyprus are apparently so strong that they can afford many things. This was also happening with a landfill in Cuba [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Three minutes went by the replica. Mr. Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I would like to tell my colleague Yuri that I should believe these allegations, then I will give him an article entitled asbestos slave Jerneji, written by Dr. Zlata Remškar, a specialist from the Goni hospital, who was published in Del on 9 March 2006. That's the problem. The presence of asbestos appeared as a new hotspot on Slovenian railways in 2001. At the time of the adoption of this law, I would also like to say that we have worked very well with the Association of asbestos Patients of Slovenia and the asbestos Society, which have done a great deal in the field of public awareness and also in the union struggle. I think it would be good if now, after thirteen years of this law, an analysis of the implementation of all these laws that we have witnessed will be made. I obtained some of the latest data and I would like to say that there were a total of 260 applications received from 2006 to 29. 5. 2009 when the last meeting of the Interdepartmental Commission was that of these 260 applications 230 were resolved and 30 were not resolved. As said at the Ministry, four new applications arrived in June and will be discussed at the next meeting of the Interdepartmental Commission. The reasons why these 30 pending cases are also very precise, but because of time, I will not read this here. There was also much talk about other occupational diseases, not just asbestos. This area of occupational diseases as a whole is very messy. Look, there were only two occupational diseases reported to the inspector last year. The Union of Free Trade Unions, however, states that in 2008 there were 75 people due to occupational illness. That's a very small number. The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance granted invalidity due to occupational illness last year to 34 workers, the year before 18. I claim that these are very incomplete data and that we do not know the actual situation in the country at all. In the preceding article, Dr Zlata Remškar also concludes that there is a long-term comprehensive state-planned system of early detection, prevention, registration, treatment and monitoring of occupational diseases in the country. And he says asbestos disease is just one of these many occupational diseases. In addition, I would like to draw attention to other environments. It's not just about the Sous-chef. When we discussed this environmental aspect of asbestos exposure in the previous mandate, the current Minister of Environment, Janez Podobnik, said that it was not just the Soča, that it was also other areas, that it was Idrija, where there was mercury, the Mežiški valley, where lead was dust, that it was the Trbovljeski pool, as was previously mentioned by colleague Breda Pečan, that it was also dust from glass glass in Rogaška and such areas could still be listed. Look, there are about 600 retired miners in Idrija. However, many of them suffer from silicon or other harmful effects of mercury and mine work, and no one is monitoring their health status, although the 2004 Mining Mining Act explicitly states this. And it is only after five years this year that the mercury mine Idrija will begin and call on retired miners to systematically monitor their health. So, even though we have laws, we don't do them with us. Although we do have financial resources, they are not used for these purposes. Therefore, it would really be necessary to deal comprehensively with both the issue of occupational diseases and the rehabilitation of affected environments such as Soča, asbestos and other hotspots in Slovenia, Idrija due to mercury, Mežica due to lead, trebwell swimming pool and so on. I would like to draw attention to another law that I do not think is sufficiently implemented or is only being implemented by so-called monitoring. This is the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety. This law was passed there about 2004 or some year earlier. This law requires monitoring of radon content in public institutions such as hospitals, kindergartens, schools, secondary schools, universities, everywhere in public spaces. While this is being monitored, monitoring is being carried out, but if more and less quantities are detected in these environments, these environments need to be saved at national costs. In Idria, we had a kindergarten where radon's contents were extremely high and the state did not provide funds, despite the fact that the law said so. The local community, or municipality of Idrija, had to turn to the Norwegian financial mechanism so that we could rehabilitate a kindergarten that was overburdened with radon. The project was approved, the Norwegians immediately realized that it was an important matter, we did kindergarten very quickly. In June 2008 it was built, and both governments, the former and the present ones, scampered until March to obtain funds from the Norwegian financial mechanism. Then we wonder what it's like to draw on European funds if we couldn't get one ordinary kindergarten financially, I'd say, to shut down the structure. So there are a lot of open questions in this area. At least we're dealing with asbestos issues, and we're just going to have to deal with another problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u180	Mrs. Pechanova, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u181	Don't count it as a replica, but as a supplement to what only Bevk said.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u182	I have to say it, or I can't give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u183	No, it's okay. Is a replica [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u184	Make up your mind, is it a replica or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u185	In a formal sense, there is a replica, but it has really added to what Mr. Bevk has already said. An explanation with which I would like to complement my colleague Sam Bevk. This is so that I think it would be very useful if we asked the State Council, the Committee on Labour, the Family and Social Affairs, the Committee on the Environment and Space about the issue discussed so far. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u186	Mrs. Pecanova [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u187	Just one moment to say. Supplement [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u188	I can't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u189	Just to say, can I? To focus on this topic of occupational diseases, the consequences of mining and all similar activities in the economy for citizens and citizens of Slovenia in order to reach out to the Government [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u190	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u191	To make this a program so that we can proudly say that we have taken care of the health of our people.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pechanova. Because I'm afraid of the consequences, I'm interrupting you. Mr. Yuri, you have [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u193	It's not a replica of a replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u194	It's not a replica, but it's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u195	No, it's not a replica. It is a replica of the performance of colleague Bevek because he mentioned me at the outset and, in fact, confirmed with information certain statements which I did not deny, absolutely not and I am grateful that these data are coming on the day. At that time, I also went over the Internet and, in fact, the first entries on the presence of asbestos in our older cars and railways were published in 2007. Especially in so-called dumplings. If that's true, what we've heard today, what's proved, I wonder how it's possible that our passengers still travel on trains like this. I suggest that they take immediate care of either what the well-founded buyers of these wagons, the Italians, and demanded that we clean up these asbestos wagons or that these wagons and these piles be removed from use. What is still being used should be eliminated. If we don't do this, we're responsible. So today, I think the government has heard this and will take appropriate action.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law for the third hearing, the assembly on the draft law will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, within half an hour. I hereby terminate this agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 5.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u197	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We're moving to the vote. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - the consideration of the Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways for 2009. We move to a decision on the proposal for a decision, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees to the 2009 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its 21st meeting. 5. 2009 We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members, 49, against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - with the consideration of the Draft Law on Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the DARS, d.d., from credits and issued debt values for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, amounting to EUR 329.73 million, under the urgent procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, for 48, for 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the suspension of the 13th item of the agenda - third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Working with Asbestos. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law for the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I'm informing you that the Law-Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the bill would be inconsistent. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69, against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - with the consideration of the Proposal for the initiation of a procedure to supplement the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia (Ur. I. RS, No. 1/91 and 45/94) by the draft Constitutional Law. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt a proposal from the Group of Members, with the first signed by Jozet Tank, dated 23. 2. 2009, EPA 211 /5, to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Fundamental Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Commission proposes to the Assembly not to adopt this Decision. Before voting, I wish to inform you that it will comply with the provisions of paragraph 2 of paragraph 180. [[?]] Article 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia shall be adopted if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mag. Branko Grims on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. In the SDS Group, we will support the proposal to launch the procedure, as it is the only way to open an open room for a reasonable agreement in favour of citizens and citizens on this important issue. It is essential, ladies and gentlemen, that now, as a lack of expertise and ignorance, both of the reasons why you have always rejected the proposal to address the issue of so-called constitutionally deleted, because, on the one hand, the constitutional profession has made it very clear that the general and public criticism of the decisions of the Constitutional Court is also important, which you have always denied and said that they are not to be spoken of and that they simply need to be respected blindly. More importantly, at that time the judgment of the Maribor court was issued, this is an interim judgment in which the courts unequivocally held that the decisions which are now being issued in such a vehement manner are the basis for the actions for compensation of the so-called blotted-outs, because they only begin to run out of time. This is totally contrary to what the Minister argued from obvious incompetence and ignorance all the time that she said that most things are already outdated and that, on the other hand, I quote, you have all repeated the most controversial and incomprehensible claim behind her, "that these decisions, with the possibility of imposing compensation for the so-called deleted, have absolutely no connection at all". Now the court's judgment in Maribor has made it very clear that this is just, in this work, a coalition of inexperts and ignorance. Today is the last opportunity for this possibility to be dealt with in a just and just manner with the issue of the deleted only by voting in favour of this proposal. This is the only way in which constitutional law can be adopted in this mandate. Now that the incompetence and ignorance of the Minister have been exposed, you have, unfortunately, all uncritically summed up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u199	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u200	We take it all the time, but you could have done some of them successfully in this House, admitted this mistake, and, of course, arranged things at this point in time. Once the verdicts have been delivered, when the court proceedings have been opened, when the damages are legally binding, then the way back, ladies and gentlemen, will not be. Then, not by ordinary law, not by constitutional law, there will be no way to prevent judicial proceedings or in any way to limit compensation. How disproportionate these compensations have been with other compensations that have already been limited by this country, but I hope I made it clear enough yesterday, and thank you also for all the public statements. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Because there is still an interest in explaining the vote on behalf of the groups. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Chamber of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u202	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'll be really glad if this is the last chance to sow impatience and hatred. Yesterday we heard that we have been doing this in all the debates for three and a half months. Otherwise, the position of the Member Club, the draft constitutional law, we oppose for principle reasons, because this does not mean anything other than the mocking up of decisions of the Constitutional Court, which, of course, have determined exactly how the issue of deleted persons should be resolved. In our view, the Ministry of the Interior deals consistently with the issue on the basis of these decisions. As is known, the Ministry concludes by issuing supplementary provisions, as laid down in its decision, by the Constitutional Court. The next step will be the system law on deleted, which will definitively close this chapter of one of the mistakes in Slovenian history. The question of compensation also spells out in detail Article 26 of our current Constitution, which states that, of course, everyone has the right to compensation for the performance of a service or any other activity of a public authority, local community or public authority, by way of his unlawful conduct, committed by a person or body carrying out that service or activity. In addition to the constitutional law, this right automatically denies the proposal and, of course, prevents proceedings before the courts, which is certainly unconstitutional. It may not be necessary to repeat that no compensation has yet been legally imposed, which does not, of course, mean that once in the future, if injustice and error have been committed, there may not be. If individuals show and prove that the State has caused them harm, then it is only right that in this case and in all future cases it should also be settled and corrected. Now, of course, there has been much talk in these debates about your people and our people. Of course, some want to keep these divisions on your, our, first-class and second-class, but I tell you that of course there is no one in this country or yours or ours, all who are citizens of this country, just ours and in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia as such. It is, of course, the fact that they are the law and the constitution, the Constitutional Court and the law of the category, which every normal open and fair democratic society also respects. These values define us, certainly Slovenia as a democratic and developed society. That's how we deserve it. However, the decisions of the Constitutional Court are still binding on us in the Liberal Democracy and we will also strive to complete them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u203	Before we proceed, I'd like to ask you to turn your cell phones down. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors shall be given by the Victory of Jelinčič Plemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It was the last speaker who showed complete ignorance of the subject and the topic when he said that we must be equal to all our citizens. But these so-called deleted by majority are not our citizens, Mr Saiovic. That's an essential difference. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u205	Dear colleague Jelinčič, there is no controversy with other Members and parliamentary groups. Please take this into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u206	I'll take care of it. Speaking of intolerance and hatred, I have noticed some intolerance and hatred toward my own people. This has been called treason since the Greek civilization. It is sad that this is happening in Slovenian society today. If we leave the citizens of Slovenian nationality behind, let us take into account some 200,000 non-Slovenian nationals who have been cheated by this country, who will be cheated by this coalition because they respected the laws and about 20,000, after most of the frauds that this coalition will reward for fraud. Because among these, among this group, where the majority of the frauds are, even the whole species, or some of those who have been wronged, this constitutional law is the one that will solve this matter, because it will deal with each matter individually, each name individually. I know, dear coalition, that's hurting you, because this way you'd lose the number that's now about 30,000, but maybe 1,500. But that doesn't mean anything to you, because 1,500 votes don't mean anything to you. If this gets split between your clients, then that's a hell of a lot. However, if about 30,000 votes are distributed among your customers, this is a very large one. It's sad that you're willing to pay these people [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u207	My friend Jelinčič, please don't argue with other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u208	I'm not negligent, Mr. President. It's semantic, and you know what's semantic. I say like a Greek old man, "You who are here in space..." and so on. Then I'll explain something to you from the Greek tragedy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u209	If it's about the universe, I'd take it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u210	The fact is, you intend to pay people who have turned their backs on our country many times and who have tried to stab us in the back. Now you hold this knife in your hands.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u211	Thank you very much. An explanation of the vote on your behalf, please. Voice explanation, Bogdan Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u212	Thank you. Apparently, we have a very wrong constitution. Yesterday, I pointed out that the Minister stressed Article 26 of the Constitution, which states: "Everyone has the right to reparation for the damage suffered by a person or body in connection with the performance of a job or any other activity of a public authority, a local authority or a holder of public powers by way of his or her unlawful conduct." Yesterday, I made it clear to the Minister that if anyone committed an illegal act, the head of the local community service, in the congregation until 1995, the heads of the administrative services, if they committed an illegal act, should be punished by the Minister until today. And then let him pay the damages and admit to not knowing all the services that have been erased. To date, all 12 to 15, 17, 25 years are in the same position. Proof: they did not commit an offence. If they have not committed an offence, no one shall be entitled to any compensation, no recognition of the status of deleted and so on. But if, ladies and gentlemen, no matter what, I respect everything, we can't read eight lines of the Constitution, one article, then tell me who's here - a little behind, well. It clearly states here: an offence is to be committed in administrative units and local communities. No one did it because no one answers. Today, we are paying others damages for the unlawful acts of some who are in power. What logic is that? We'll reward some out there. We are saying that our Slovenians have committed illegal acts on administrative units and local communities, they are still in these jobs, let the Minister punish them, then I will sign and we will acknowledge all deleted. But as long as everyone is in the same place until we know that no one has committed an illegal act, none of the deleted is entitled to anything. Ladies and gentlemen, once have a face and look people in the eye, accept this law or do not accept it. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, mag. Bank Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u214	The proposal is positive that there will be no mistake in voting, colleagues. However, I would like to point out that the reason why we should vote in favour of the constitutional law, including the arrogant one who has always been present in rejecting exactly all the positive arguments we have supported this legal and just solution. This arrogance was manifested in some way by the Minister yesterday, when she was no longer in this Chamber, during this debate, and then came back and announced with her a significant amount that the State would pay every compensation awarded and at the same time even with [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u215	Dear colleague Grimes, please! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u216	They were trying to hide their shame because they were both constitutional law and on the other hand, the court divulged the incompetence and ignorance of those key arguments that had previously been rejected by this constitutional law, and we were all concerned with the values of Slovenian independence, which we considered to be a legal and just settlement of this issue, and we could only doubtfully think of the Minister as a "kindly blonde" as we listen to it with our eyes and how we feel "supprudent blonde" when we start listening to it with our ears. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u217	Peace in the hall! I think that each one of you, each one of you, presents himself with his own performance, both in this room and in the wider sense. Each one will be rewarded or punished for his own words. It applies to all of us. Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, for 21, for 50. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 177 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the procedure for this proposal shall be terminated. The content of the same proposal cannot be placed on the agenda of the meeting of the National Assembly in this mandate, nor can it be dealt with by the Constitutional Commission. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the bill on amendments to the Law... Procedural? As soon as I read about primary school, there's a reduced procedure. [[...]] Please, procedurally, Mr. Victory Jelinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u218	Mr President, I think we have adopted this law. For this is what it says, this is the decision: The Assembly of the States accepts the proposal of the group and does not accept it. And we voted against not accepting it, which means we accepted it. Thank you so much for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u219	It is quite clear, and that is what Mr Mag said in his performance. Grimes. We voted on the proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the proposal of a group of Members with first-signed Jozet Tank of 23. 2. 2009, EPA 211-V, to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia." The Constitutional Commission proposes to the Assembly that this Decision be rejected and I have reminded you that, in accordance with the second paragraph, this Decision will be adopted if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. There's no dilemma and there's no point. I'd like to ask you procedurally, but the matter is perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u220	Mr President, the matter is not clear and I demand that this be given to the business commission and to reflection, even to the Constitutional Court. Because it's not the way you explain it. That's not true. Since the decision is written here in one common paragraph, in one paragraph, because the above is the conclusion, the double, then the whole decision is given and then the dots which divide the rest of the text of this Decision are below. And I demand that this be checked out to the lawyers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u221	I will certainly take this proposal into account to put this on the business committee. I find the matter clear and obvious, and I am sorry that you have probably, I don't know, mistaken in this vote. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Basic School Act, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending the Basic School Act is not suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 19. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on higher education is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Mr Alexander Zorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u222	Thank you very much. The SDS Group considers that the law is not suitable for further consideration, as its novelty is only in bringing in a new higher education agency that does not contain anything that does not already contain the Higher Education Council and is therefore only a body to help the Minister control the free academic space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-06-19-SDZ5-Redna-07.ana.u223	May I have peace in the hall? We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 21. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the second reading, treatment of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft law on postal services. The National Assembly is on Tuesday, 16. 6. 2009, carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the proposer, that it should be based on paragraph 138 of the first paragraph. [[?]] The members of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly held a third consideration of the draft law at this meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. However, since the draft law was not harmonised due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the parent working body, the Government prepared an amendment to the 72nd article you received at the bench. Do Members and Members want to talk about the harmonisation amendment? With regard to the harmonisation amendment you have on the bench, it is a recalculation. So no one wants to discuss it. I therefore conclude this debate and move on to a decision on the harmonisation of the amendments. We're voting. The vote is under way. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the seventh session of the National Assembly. Members and Members of Parliament, please remove all materials from the Chamber for the preparation of the hall for the festive session to be held next week. Thank you very much and very much.
