ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 11th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Eva Irgl, Joško Godec, France Cukjati, Janez Janša, mag. Branko Grims, Rudolf Petan, Ljubo Germič, Jakob Preseknik and Miran Györek. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION OF GAMES FOR HAPPINESS, IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law has been tabled by the Government, so I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u2	Chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members. The amendment of the law currently under consideration brings some, according to the Government's assessment of urgent change, but does not bring about radical changes in the regulation of gambling. As it is assumed that this will be done in the following year, after considering the strategy for the development of gambling in Slovenia. The amendments to the law address three key areas. The first area concerns the regulation of socially responsible gambling and in particular the protection of minors. To this end, some restrictions on the adaptation of online gambling with a certain age limit of 18 years are in place in the law. Then there is a limit on concessionaires being obliged to alert people about the negative consequences of gambling, and it also introduces an institution whereby individual gambling players can set limits on their behaviour and point out this to the concessionaire in fact. The second set of issues concerns the supervisory function of the state over the design of gambling. In doing so, the application of the Inspection Control Act shall be subsidiary to the law. Some other measures are being introduced to enable supervisory authorities to prohibit the conduct of activities when there is a breach of legislation. Then there are some provisions restricting online gambling and some provisions that allow for more effective control. The third area governed by the law concerns the elimination of unnecessary restrictions on the business of operators and concessionaires, in particular the abolition of the prohibition that a concessionaire who arranges classical gambling should not have investment in other legal persons. The provision to have at least two members of the concessionaire's board shall also be deleted. In the framework of the accession negotiations for Slovenia's membership in the OLD ECD, discrimination has been meaningfully eliminated so far that only persons from the European Economic Area can participate in the ownership of concessionaires who arrange gambling. It's spreading to a bigger place. Finally, the law provides a clearer provision on implementation concerning the application of other laws in the control. One amendment to Article 9 has been tabled and is fully supported by the Government. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Rad Likar, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The Committee considered the draft law as a working body at its 11th session, on 28 October 2009, and at its next meeting, on 4 November 2009. The Committee was provided with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service; most of its comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled in the bill by the coalition parliamentary groups; the written proposal by Mr Villa Trophynik for the amendment of the Committee to Article 9; the proposals for amendments to the Committee: Lotteries of Slovenia d.d., the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, the Tourist Meetings of Slovenia and PROZIS - the Professional Association of Balloons and the letter of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia with the support of both amendments to the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia. Some proposals for amendments to the Committee also referred to articles which were not the subject of the proposed amendment of the law and were therefore not discussed and decided by the Committee in accordance with Rule 132 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the State Council, which supported the comments made by Lottery Slovenije and the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia. Under the proposed law, amendments were tabled: a group of Members with the first-signed Dusan Kumro, Member Mirko Brulc, SDS Group of Members and Social Democrats Group of Members, Zares, Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. In a rather extensive discussion of individual articles, the Committee focused on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2, which refers to the proposal to select organisers of classical and special gambling through a public tender, the amendment of Member Mirko Brulc to Article 25, which refers to the proposal to reduce the basis for calculating the concession fee also for the already paid tax on gambling, and the proposal to temporarily delete the maximum rate of concession fee of 20% and the amendments to the group of Members with the first signed Dušan Kumro, which refers to the proposal to exempt members of the board and other leading members of the concessionaire from the fee, and to divide the fee between employees in proportion to the amount of the amount of the fee generated at the individual workplaces on the casino and to determine the detailed manner in which to distribute the drinks are to be shared. Quite controversially, the discussors responded to the third proposal of the amendment tabled, in order to avoid paying social and health care contributions for part of the employee's salary paid from the charges collected and on the basis of the employee's work performance. Both by individual discussers and representatives of the law-and-legislative services, serious warnings have been given about the non-systematic nature of such a solution which interferes with legislation in the field of labour relations, health and pension protection, or a warning of inadmissible interference with the current system of payment of social contributions. The Committee adopted its amendment to Article 9 and the amendment to the amendment of the Group of Members to Article 30 by Article 30, on the basis of a written proposal from Mr Willi Trophynik for the amendment of the Committee to the amendment to the amendment of the Group of Members. The Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled and adopted amendments to the coalition groups and to the group of Members with first-signed Dusan Kumr to Article 30 and to Article 49a. He did not accept the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and of the Member of Brulco to Article 25. The Committee did not define itself until the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 13, because the amendment adopted by the Committee to this Article made it irrelevant and the amendment of the group of Members with the first-signed Dušan Kumr to the title of Chapter Final provision since the amendment of the title of Chapter will be made in the context of the preparation of the final text of the Act. The Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the report of the Committee, is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good day to all those who do not sit with us, but follow us! Today, as the first point of today's day, we are to consider the novel of the Law on Gambling. The first point made by the Slovenian National Party on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is that it is not good to take a novelty and put out the situation, when we know, so also does the Legislative and Legal Service in order to need a new law. I emphasize, a new law! The new law would be needed not only because of material changes, but also because changes exceed a third of the basic law. That's the first thought. The second thought in this novel, which we have in the Slovenian National Party, is not so much about control, control, self-control, alerting to addiction and banning minors, but it is very strange what is said in the explanation of this law, with the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Gambling. Restrictions are introduced for participants in online gambling, requiring 18 years of age. Our only comment on this content is: How? It is impossible, impossible to judge and check whether someone who will be involved in online games is in games on the computer, eighteen years old, seventeen, sixteen or 34. That's one more proof of underdevelopment. The next content offered by the amendment of the law, which is an alarm for the Slovenian National Party, is that there are already doubts, I say, that there are doubts that there is a new regime for the organisation of gambling to allow companies with a concession to arrange classical gambling, limiting competition in specific areas. This, of course, is what individuals are trying to prove in one way or another, because the law provides, according to some estimates, for the reduction of the rights of casinos, for the exclusion of certain types of betting and for the main obvious, once again for the State to prevent the development of a competitive market in this activity. These are legitimate concerns, because as we know, we have two organizers of classical games and quite a few organizers of special gambling. Therefore, surveillance is all the more important and is under-allocated in the amendment of the law, according to the Slovenian National Party. And the last question I would like to highlight, after the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, is the so-called Article 30, which deals with the issue of tipping. In the Slovenian National Party, we absolutely agree with this proposed article. It is right, in our view, that the tips workers who have earned in the quotations should also have as an integral part of the salary, as a supplement to the salary. We agree that all those who have obtained this supplement would be entitled to this supplement and that all those who have received this supplement, therefore with a tip, are exempt directly from it. All content for the Slovenian National Party is not disputed. However, the dispute for the Slovenian National Party was determined when, thank God, we removed it from the amendment, adopted a new amendment, and I hope that this will leave workers without paying social and health care. Of course you can't. It is a question of equality of article 22 of the Constitution. Otherwise, we support this article, and it is right to get a drink in the form of income, an income supplement for those who have also created it. We will not oppose the new law in the Slovenian National Party, despite the desire to adopt a new law today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Hello, Madam Secretary of State. In Slovenia, gambling has been and remains an important and urgent topic, and its legal arrangements are certainly important, so at the beginning of the presentation of the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, let me say that the law brings, in our opinion, minor but important changes to this area. We will support them in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Of course, gambling is a broader and broad story, of which much more needs to be said. It used to be a parade horse of Slovenian tourism, our pride, which in these times of recession whispered and asked many questions. As this is the area, it also proves the pressure of a number of stakeholders who, at the time of the law in the procedure, have come forward in Parliament. It is interesting and strange, however, when this horse received and collected great prizes and awards and shared these funds, and then the Members of this matter did not come to us in this way. Among the most important changes in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are sure to consider measures to protect minors and other vulnerable groups, the proposed subsidiary use of the law governing inspection, an important more detailed definition of the development of gambling and restrictions on participants under 18 years of age, the establishment of a concessional benefit for the organisation of special gambling on the Internet, the abolition of the ban on investment of the organiser in other legal persons and entrepreneurs, which means that the organisers cooperate with other domestic and foreign operators in the preparation of each classic gambling, which will enable the organiser to develop a robust, sustainable, controlled development through which classical gambling provides an important source of financing for disability, humanitarian and sport organisations. Also important are the provisions on how to treat tips in gaming rooms. However, in the discussion on the working body, the discussion focused mainly on two areas, and this is on the above-mentioned treatment of tips and secondly on the elimination of a maximum of 20% of the concession fee for special gambling. The amendment, which regulated the field of tipping, sparked a wide and turbulent debate on the committee, and I must say that the conclusions are certainly true. Those who work well work qualityly to be tippers are an important and integral part of the salary. However, in order to exclude this from the payment of contributions, something would be unprecedented, which would be the principle of the entire system of payment policy and payment of contributions in that country. The daily fact is that pension and health bills have income problems and that in those who earn still solid contributions, that would probably be a drop over the edge. I think the solution we have adopted on the committee is right and proper. Another important issue is the reduction of 20% of the concession fee. Playing is in trouble here today, not tomorrow and tomorrow and requires concrete aid measures from us, something that needs to be done today. More importantly, it seems to us that the strategy of playing in Slovenia, which is already in preparation, must be kept under review as to how we will be doing this activity. [[...]] [[a sign for the end of the debate.]] Served in the future, and in particular it is necessary to be aware of one fact that we have obviously been in tourism, and in the past we have been betting on one horse too much in the past, and today this horse is in serious difficulty in producing and addressing the strategy that we are looking forward to in the National Assembly. [[..]] As soon as possible, this fact must also be made aware, especially that this system is [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] if we want to maintain it to the maximum extent possible, the assistance and measures needed immediately and now. [[...]] The law that stands before us, of course part of those questions solves, unfortunately not all of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr. Luka Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to my friends and friends. Nice greeting, Secretary of State. Social Democrats understand the proposal for a novel on gambling, especially as the Government's intention to update and better address some problems and open issues in the field of gambling. Above all, it is an important part of the novel, which better regulates the field of gambling addiction, so that a new self-prohibition for a longer period will be possible, which the casinos will have to strictly respect. Regulated online gambling also represents an important update of the law, which, in the current form of information technology, has long been ahead of schedule. The particular tip issue is undoubtedly better regulated than it is now, as the success of a particular job will, of course, be better and better known through the tip award. As is true, however, they will be exempt from leading personnel who have no special role to play in the production of tips. Social Democrats also support the amendment, which better regulates competition with equidae. Wider has opened an important question: What will be the role of gambling in Slovenia in the future? This role is likely to be different. In itself, it is also less relevant, even for those local areas where development has so far largely evolved in the field of gambling. In the future, gambling will no longer be enough in itself, as competition in this area will increase in our neighbours. On the other hand, as is right, our guests, domestic and foreign people require an ever-increasing quality. Therefore, the added value and accompanying activities that will enrich the tourist offer will also need to be highlighted in this area. It will be necessary to bet on a human-friendly image of Slovenian gaming and care for a person who can be a passionate actor at one point, and at another point a person who needs social help to play. The new law on gambling has opened up the issue of new strategies in this area and we are optimistic that this strategy will soon see the light of the world, but, of course, in co-forming this, we will continue to stress strongly the fact that it is not the first time that it is not happiness or profit, but man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u12	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! The area of gambling in the Republic of Slovenia is governed by the Law on Gambling, which was adopted in 1995 and amended in 2001 and 2003. Under the provisions of the Act on Gambling, gambling is the exclusive right of the Republic of Slovenia. In Slovenia only companies that obtain concessions from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia could organize gambling. The proposed amendments are intended to neutralise the consequences of the economic crisis, which have a strong impact on the revenues of gambling companies and their ability to pay all obligations. The "crisis" of the moment proves the problems of all concessionaires, regardless of their size and geographical location. Some concessionaires already have liquidity problems and are fighting for their existence. Jobs are at risk, and as a result the revenues of local communities and the state budget. Sharpening domestic, increasing the number of gaming salons, and foreign competition, increasing capacity in neighbouring countries, online substitutes for special gambling in casinos have caused a significant decline in profit rates in the implementation of gambling in recent years. The existing specific casino duties are based on the profitability assessment and the 2001 market structure and the situation of the industry in 2009 is inadequately different, which should also be taken into account in the field legislation. The main objectives of the proposed amendments and additions are, in principle, good and acceptable, but all these objectives can only be achieved if the amendments proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party are supported. In our opinion, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling does not respond to the fundamental development problems of Slovenian gaming, does not rely on current economic and statistical data and economic business indicators, does not build on current scientific research and studies and trends, restricts the activities of casinos and favours the development of a private company Sport lottery, d.d., continues to allow the award of concessions without public calls, strengthens the monopoly of a private company in the field of sports betting and final gaming, allows the transfer of money to so-called tax havens, strengthens the political management of companies in the field of gaming and does not follow the current conditions and trends in the world. In the current regulation, gambling can only be arranged for companies with a concession to arrange classical gambling, Lottery Slovenia, Sports lottery, and companies with a concession to arrange special gambling in casinos. The Ministry would be protecting against domestic competition in the field of online gambling through changes to the gaming law, which is now in the procedure, the Lottery of Slovenia and the Sports lottery. The system is maintained, although gambling is allowed on the Internet only for the classical and special gambling mentioned and for the addition we would further protect the monopoly on sports betting. The law provides for a reduction of the rights of casinos, as it prevents them from arranging sports betting. The new important source of earnings has been taken from the casinos and, above all, the Government is preventing the development of a competitive market through its actions. Thus, Slovenian internet gambling providers will not be able to compete in the international space, as Internet games are marketed globally, regardless of any attempt to limit them. More transparency and competition would also bring more money into the budget or to finance disability and sports organisations. At the same time, Slovenia must take into account changes in neighbouring countries that have already liberalised legislation - Croatia, Hungary, Serbia, and also plan to build larger tourist and gaming complexes, which will have a long-term impact on the economy, tourism and gaming, in Slovenia due to proximity. The legislation was also partly liberalised by the Republic of Italy, which allows limited gambling in guest restaurants. All these statements justify supporting the amendment of the Gambling Act only if the amendments proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party are adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trophynik will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u14	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present. Gambling is the exclusive right of the Republic of Slovenia, which is transferred by the Government with concessions to companies. In accordance with the applicable Gambling Act, 11 concessions are granted from the legally envisaged 15 to arrange gambling in casinos and 34 concessions from the statutory 45 to arrange special gambling in gaming salons. On the basis of the concession, two companies permanently organise gambling, the first eight gambling companies and the second six companies. With the permission of the Minister of Finance, companies and non-profit organisations can also organise classical gambling once a year to co-finance their activities. The concession for gambling in casinos has six companies from 34 companies - gaming salons. Last year, gambling operators generated a gross income of €432 million or 1.25% of gross social income. A good half of income was generated in casinos, a poor third in gaming salons and a bad fifth in classical gambling. Of this, €91 million was paid to the state budget, €26 million to the municipal budgets, €23 million to the disability and humanitarian fund and €7 million to the sport fund. It is the responsibility of the State that gambling takes place in an orderly and controlled environment. The proposed amendments to the law leave only the most urgent measures in this area or pursue the following objectives. Implement socially responsible gambling and protect minors and other vulnerable persons from the harmful effects of gambling, including through the introduction of self-prohibition. To increase the effectiveness of controls, in particular in the case of unauthorised games, to enable operators to participate in joint games with other operators and to enable the introduction of new gaming devices and a new way of adapting gambling on the Internet and other telecommunications devices, and to determine how to collect a duty concession. Equally and transparently regulate tips in gaming activities, remove unnecessary restrictions on the business of operators and eliminate unclear and defective provisions in existing law and non-compliance with other laws. The necessary legislative changes, which go beyond that framework, should be included in the overall development strategy in this area under preparation, following the proposal. Since amendments have been adopted on the home working body to improve the proposed text, we will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u16	Mr. Vice President, thank you so much for your invitation to the floor. I wish a nice greeting to everyone and I briefly present the position of the DeSUS Group. We estimate that the Government has taken a cautious approach to amending the law governing gambling, despite the fact that there have been a lot of comments in the process, and it is also important that there have been a lot of additional proposals that have not been taken into account at present and that several amendments have also been proposed. We believe that it is possible to say, even though it has been approached with due diligence, especially because it is at the same time announcing and preparing a more thorough reflection on this area, especially if we are thinking of developing a new strategy for gambling, which will probably reflect on some of the main points of reference, on the objectives, including on the principles that have certainly resulted in further legislative changes. We ourselves know that some proposals have also been proposed that have not been taken into account due to the procedural situation, because some amendments referred to articles that are simply not open and thus prevent them from being implemented and remain, I would say, something that will have to be taken into account when the strategy is being prepared. The DeSUS Group intends to support the amendment of this law. It will also support that amendment, which has been further improved and coordinated and proposed by colleagues from the Zares Group. We believe that a great deal of attention must be paid to this area for a number of reasons. One such is certainly the area of the economy. If we mention only a number approaching 500 million years of gross traffic, then we know that this is really an area that we need to give proper attention to. If we know that this is one of the fastest growing parts of our tourism economy, this is an additional reason to think carefully about this area. Some other statistics have also been listed, all of which are not very beneficial. We therefore mention this other aspect, not only financial and economic, but also health and social, which speaks of the fact that, in fact, every Slovenian and Slovenian, with two and a half times, statistically, must enter the casino and that between one and two and a half percent of such visitors, who are adopted, who are problematic or even pathologically adopted. This is one of the essential reasons why we believe that a thorough reflection will be needed within the framework of the strategy and the further amendment of legislation. Otherwise, we estimate that it is necessary to pay due attention to all those who participate in these gambling activities, especially to young people. We are a little disappointed that this route has been much more focused on the distribution of tips than on the underlying problems that this gambling area brings. If I do. We will also, when the strategy and the new legislation are adopted, follow closely, try to be active, and this path is supported by the amendment proposed and amended.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues. In Slovenia gambling is an exclusive right of the Republic of Slovenia and can only be implemented on the basis of a concession of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Gambling is an economic activity and, as such, represents an important source of income for the country and the local community. Gambling is also statistically proven to bring many social, family and personal problems, even tragedies. It is therefore essential that they take place in an orderly and controlled environment in order to ensure consumer protection and public order. Because of this nature of gambling activities, it is important to pay particular attention to gambling players or players, in order to prevent as much as possible their dependence on gambling and its related consequences for them, their families and society. We therefore support the intent of the law, which increases the social responsibility of operators and concessionaires to arrange games of chance, and at the same time allows players to decide for themselves to limit or prohibit playing for a certain period of time. In the above context, we also support the provisions of the proposed law which increase the effectiveness of control, in particular in the case of illegal gambling without a concession from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with various devices in the restaurant. The subsidiary application of the law governing inspection will also give inspectors the rights and obligations to implement specific measures such as: sealing the premises and equipment, stopping or suspending the supply of electricity, water, telecommunications and the like. Let me also touch the areas of tipping that have been rumbling many spirits. It is right that tips, such as this practice in all service activities where this area is not so strictly formalised, are wholly devoted to employees. Due to the specificity and strictness of the regulation of the gambling system, this can only be done by giving them the purpose of working performance at pay, which consequently means that contributions are also paid from this part of the salary. Any other solution for the Slovenian People's Party is, of course, not the right one. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. The debate will be held on the basis of a review of the amended proposal of the Law of 16. 11. 2009, and I remind you that it is still today, 17. 11th Amendment tabled to Article 9 of the Zares Group. Please take this into account when discussing and deciding. We are moving on to the debate on Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u20	Thank you. I'm calling again. In this article, what is normal for all other procedures in the Republic of Slovenia and what is applicable to all state institutions and gambling is in some way within the jurisdiction of the State. The key issue enshrined in this Article in our amendment is that concessions are awarded on the basis of a call for tender. I think that my fellow Members will support this, because invitations to tender are some normal regulation in our country. All other public authorities must respect it. Given that we are changing gaming legislation and that we are changing this law and want to make it more transparent, which is what everyone in their debates also stressed that we want to protect, in some way, suppliers on the one hand, as well as those who use gambling, it is crucial that this supplement is incorporated in this article and that further concessions are therefore also being tendered through public tenders.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to point out that, with such extensive comments on this law, we would really need a new novelty. That's what my colleague pointed out earlier. As far as article 2 and the amendment are concerned. These concessions, which have been awarded so much today under the table, place at least the unequal position of those applying for concession. One can get a concession without any great conditions and actually only rent space, put stickers on this place, for example, renting spaces at the Lipica border crossing. He's got a concession. I'm not gonna tell you who. Another, who also applied in the congregation of Sežana, received conditions that he had to make a hotel with so many beds and so on for the same concession. So it's about acquaintances and there's no rules. A lot of times after relationships and, of course, the Minister has decided many times as well. As far as the law is concerned, if I am allowed, honourable presidents, I would like to point out here that the country appears as a thief in this role as custodian of gambling. He's actually a thief. I am very concerned that we are advocating the implementation of such a law, but we find that, until now, the country is illegally subsidizing the tips that are undeniably the property of those who have received them. On the other hand, allow yourself to be taxed. Who will know the best way to handle this matter or how to make the matter right if not the mayors who run this congregation? One of the amendments proposed by the coalition Member, Mr Brulc, was smooth-tune. It refers to the fact that this is unacceptable, in fact, to charge a tax on taxes and the current regime establishes the same tax base for the assessment of those taxes. That's not right. I believe we'll get a new marriage on the parliamentary bench. But I don't think this marriage is going to solve this problem in its entirety. I don't believe that. What happened in the regions? I come from Primorska, where gambling has blossomed, what we have done with such a splinter of law that is in force today, and you can look in Gorica. Exceptional developmental opportunities had this city, of course, it still has them today, but it all sort of died out, from the moment the country interfered with its tactics, how to make this matter as much a country as possible. And what other proponents are proposing, I don't know if I'm going to advertise later when they're spending more money on the development of tourism activities in space, let me say that this money that we take from taxes or gambling goes back to space and is essentially the wedding of some development in space. It's not just the country that picks up that money. And I don't know why we're here so hard, but if we know that the only advantage that Slovenia has is the development of tourism, gambling and actually these advantages that this beauty of nature and offer when you can come from skiing to sea in an hour. And why don't you relax a little bit more and play? And in doing so, take advantage of the rigidity of Italy, which because of religious and other matters has been conservatively regulated. I don't understand why you shouldn't listen to those mayors who want the state to get more money first, and they themselves in their municipal treasury a little bit more budget for development projects. Rejecting such initiatives is pointless. We postpone good solutions in times of crisis tomorrow, and this will never happen tomorrow, and this law, which will fully settle this issue by flourishing to work in these difficult times, will not be welcomed, because there are too many bureaucrats who do not know it and too many interested groups who run it. That is why I consider this law to be very bad. I will support it because it partially eliminates the illegality, the illegality of the place, which is expressed in the injury of workers. Of course, there is still great resentment that we will allow the state to carry out actual illegal business and to convert tax into tax. This is not in any country, nor in the banana Republic no, we only allow it in Slovenia and this is a great shame for the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen. And there's no excuse we couldn't arrange this today in the National Assembly. We could have arranged it if we wanted, and the coalition MP warned about it, but his own client ran him over because it was unreasonable. And thank God the anarchy lives on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this with Article 2? I'm giving you time to report. Mr. Rado Likar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, chairman. One of the tasks of the country is also to create a more competitive environment and a better business environment, which would undoubtedly be through a public call for competition when the adjustment of classical and special gambling would undoubtedly be done. This way of selecting organisers would also mean a more fair and transparent way of awarding concessions, which is also an example of good practice in other Member States of the European Union. With this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also propose that the granting or granting of concessions should be decided by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Economy, as gambling is defined within national strategies as part of a tourist offer for which the Ministry of Economy is responsible. That is why I will support this amendment to Article 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u26	Thank you very much. My opinion on the amendment to Article 2 is as follows. The explanation of the amendment highlights some good purposes, but it is interesting that the evidence of the alleged disputed award of concessions comes from the party which granted these concessions. I would like to remind you that no concessions have been granted in the current term, only those procedures that have been carried out since the previous government were concluded. I do not wish to stress, however, that these concessions were poorly awarded during the previous government period. However, I would like to remind you that if there is a clear indication that they have been poorly distributed, it is an obvious statement that should be made to your government when these concessions were submitted. On the other hand, this solution, which is proposed, is written quickly and does not have all the analysis of the consequences of what such a call for proposals would bring. It also has no comparative analysis of what such solutions mean in other countries. I agree with the conclusion that we need a more comprehensive novelty, which will ultimately come from a new strategy for the development of gambling, but I think that by then it is better to stick to the arrangements that we know how it works, and which can work well, if the purposes and practices are intended, those who grant concessions are good if the purposes and practices are good, those who grant concessions are bad, of course, what happens is obvious. But once again, this must eventually be acknowledged by the government that granted these concessions, which was the government of Janez Janša. At the same time, I support the strategy so far of the government, the Ministry of Finance, which has decided that the concessions until further, until more appropriate regulation, will not simply be distributed because it is doubtless that these concessions have been over-allocated. In particular, they were distributed without a clear strategy on what these concessions want to achieve. The importance of gambling at the border was becoming less and less stressed, where we know that most of the guests were foreigners and that the development of gambling within us, attracting more domestic guests. In itself nothing for it, nothing bad, but why would we do it if we know that it is one of the meanings of gambling, that we get guests from abroad and thus, of course, the flow of money from abroad. At the same time, by granting concessions to a less-quality gaming salon, as has already been said, we have worsened the overall offer of gaming in the Slovenian field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u28	Nicely greeted! Playing is indeed an important economic sector that is also experiencing difficult times. The golden times of the casino are over when it was exclusively about squeezing the guest and I hope that the stranger, not the local one. Because we live along the border, we don't care what relationships are like across the border, and what are the traumas in many families and businesses caused by gambling. That is why, of course, I accept this amendment to the gambling law when we are talking about safe gambling and I have also taken a decision by my colleagues on the committee that my amendment on tax evasion of all gaming activities in the country has not been adopted. However, I accept the promise of the Minister and the team that there will be a whole new legislation on gambling in preparation, and that many words and thoughts will have to be addressed on the ground too, so that this legislation will not be one that will not bring some new content, because the existing legislation is really obsolete. It was said that in the past a lot of concessions were granted for casinos, especially for gaming salons. This is a painful wound and these concessions are without further ado. Look, I live in an environment where gambling is very present and I know the positive and negative consequences of gambling. Some statements on the board that gambling brings prostitution, drug addiction, crime and so on are not true. I say that with all my responsibility. At least or actually no crime or negative effects are in the casinos, because it is under such video surveillance that every guest knows that there is no payout for doing any law-abiding stuff. And we don't have any more drug addictions in Goriškem from this title, but we do have these drugs because our legislation is so mild that it pays Italians to share these intoxicating resources, to buy them and so on, because on their side the penalties are incredible and there will have to be some step. But it's definitely not about gambling. I very much agree that safe gaming is essential to bring into this activity, as far as possible, also depends on professional and other forms of how to protect gaming, how to protect, this has already been said today, online games, online gaming. I was most pleased when, at the start of this gambling activity in Goriška, the host couldn't, I mean, more than twice a month in the casino. It is not our intention to make our citizen go to the casino in the belief that he will quickly enrich himself with a small stake. These are miracles that happen once every so many months, but living in this belief is not healthy. That is why the money that the local community receives from concessions is not the last thing we spend on school counseling, for such thinking is also present in children because it comes from the family. You need to know that the casino workers had an extremely good standard to date. That the croupiers had a higher salary than the mayors and that in vacations they had to spend, and that's exactly why some conflicts today in Hit and elsewhere, they didn't talk any more than when they were going shopping in Milan or anywhere else. And when I received postcards from my children as principal, it was not from Slovenia. That was the situation. That's also the negative thing that brings gambling. That it's a sociological bomb in an environment where gambling exists and that we need to think about it. That's why we invest money and concessions, a million and a half, in higher education, in technology parks and so on. I'm asking you what kind of casino worker is going to stay on the road tomorrow because there are no guests because there is no such spending because there is also a recession in this area, which casino engineer is going to go to Iscro to work for 800 or 1,000 euros? None. This is a very important activity that brings in money and a full state budget, as well as a municipal budget in the surrounding tourist area. What will we do with this activity to survive and continue to be successful? That's our interest. I therefore hope that the new legislation will also bring about this extraordinary demand that gambling be linked to tourism and that it is a tourist offer. What Hit has now started to finance ski resorts in Canin, to help finance the kayak center and so on, that's what added value is. Not expect a player to come into the casino, play, lose and go home. That's not enough. So, the connection to tourism is very important. That is why we want our people, our citizens, not to go to the casinos for the belief that they will become rich. And those who are addicted, experts say that gambling addiction is worse than drug addiction and more difficult to treat, so this form of self-prohibition, but the security mechanism that we now introduce, is very necessary and I hope that it will work. It worked, because the link between the playgrounds and so on, of course, it leads to content. I want to get this over with. The regulation of the pay allowance this amendment regulates and thus introduces safe gambling. That is why I will support the amendment prepared by Really and the bill itself. At the same time, I will demand that it proceed very quickly or immediately to the drafting of new legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is wanted by the Secretary of State. Helena Kamnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. I think I need to respond to this debate. First of all, I think it is obvious that, because the law does not introduce a system of public tendering in the award of concessions, it leads to anarchy, which continues with this amendment of the law, far from what is true. We believe that introducing a public invitation to tender with a new law into this concept and into a state in which we are simply not possible at the moment. Of course, we do not oppose any such solution in the new regime, but at the moment the introduction with the novel definitely does not count, because a transitional regime should be developed and the situation we have at this point in time should be regulated in particular. For several years, no new concessions have been granted here, but the concessions are essentially being extended. The second thing I would like to respond to is the fact that in the case of gambling taxation, it is tax-paying. Of course that's not true. Where and whenever two charges are paid from a commodity or service, never one duty shall be excluded from the basis on which the individual duty is taxed. Example: If you have value added tax and excise duty, in any case it is considered as the basis of the whole and not to say the basic price without excise duty when the value added tax is measured. Similarly in this case, there are two taxes, namely the gambling tax, which is comparable to the value added tax, whose gambling is not received and amounts to 18%, and this is a concession tax, which ranges from 5 to 20%. Thus, the total tax burden on gambling is 20.9% at this time and in recent years it has fallen, as the example I mention in 2007, which was 32%. That'll be all for a while. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you. Someone else wants to go to 2nd. Mr. Guilty. Anybody else want some? Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u32	Thanks again for saying that. I would like to highlight a few other things in this amendment, which I did not in the first debate. And my colleagues kind of encouraged me. In this amendment, we have also proposed one thing that you have all discussed, which is that gambling and casinos are linked to tourism, so we have proposed to include the Minister of Economy under which tourism belongs. But all these amendments were somehow rejected on your part. When we talk about the award of concessions - indeed, in the previous term concessions have been granted for gaming salons, but if we are honest, this goes in some way further competition in this area. I can't say that I support gaming salons, because I think there are still more appropriate casinos in our system than gaming salons, but it is about creating in some way competition. In this case, the law, which we are currently considering, is a monopoly, because the existing two companies dealing with special gambling, Sport Lottery and Lottery Slovenia, are given some privileges so that they can also deal with Internet gambling, which in the past period are in great increase and will probably, as in other countries, soon grow all classic gambling. In that case, there's a big problem here. It is not a new concession, but it is practical to grant a monopoly to two companies, which are not, after all, not even owned by the state, but are practically private to a company, owned primarily by NFD Holding and Mr Stanet Valant, which you can all read in certain media. Here's the key problem we see. And also what was previously explained by the Secretary of State regarding taxation is true, but this tax is calculated on the same basis, which is not the usual practice in other economic operators.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I note that the debate on the amendments to Article 2 has been concluded. We are moving on to the debate on Article 3 and the amendment to Article 3. Anybody want a word? Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u34	We are reintroducing in this article the possibility of obtaining a concession to arrange gambling on the basis of a public invitation to tender, which does not stand in the existing law and speaks only of having the opportunity to acquire, can only be organised by companies that have concessions for the permanent adaptation of classical gambling. In this case, we know again that these are two companies, the Sports Lottery and the Lottery of Slovenia, and that we hereby grant them a monopoly through this law. Our amendment's proposal goes back this way so that other companies, both in Slovenia and in the casinos, can obtain this new concession to arrange online gambling for online games through a public invitation, because it seems fair to us also to other partners in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this with Article 3? I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 7 and the amendment to Article 7, which was also tabled by the SDS Group. Anybody want a word? Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u36	In a way, just to clarify. With regard to this abstinence and user insurance, you all stressed the need to regulate socially responsible gambling, so we also proposed that the ban on non-playing or banning entry into casinos should not only apply for three years, as was the case with the law, but for at least five years. According to the experience of other addicts, we feel for three years that the edge is somehow the same when a drug addict is still in the stage when he can once again take some forbidden paths. Therefore, it would seem reasonable for us to extend this period at least for a longer period of abstinence, but this is a pure decision that does not affect much of this law, but I think it would help exactly what you have all stressed in your discussions, is said to be responsible gambling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The proposal itself seems interesting and ultimately comes from the assumption that it takes longer to separate addiction. I cannot assess whether the proposal makes sense or not, because I am not an expert in the field of gambling and I do not know how long this addiction takes. It's probably also up to the individual. However, it would be nice if we could obtain an additional professional opinion, perhaps by the Government, as far as this amendment is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I see there's no more application for Article 7. We are moving on to Article 9 and the amendment to Article 9 tabled by the Zares Group on 17 November. Mr. Willy Trophynik wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Madam Vice-President, allow me to explain the purpose of the amendment or what this Article 9 introduces. The current gambling law practically prevents the setting up of so-called horse racing betting, which is a very developed activity in Europe. The basic proposal of the law provided that this would limit to 4 sports events or, in particular, four cassacean races per year. In Slovenia, every year from the beginning of April to the beginning of October, about 25 such events and the sense and prudence of the introduction of gambling in the form of betting at horse races make sense if this is ensured at all events. As a result, we deleted the number 4 in the second reading, but there was a solution that we could read in one way or another that it was a continuous adjustment of gambling, even though it lasted from April to October. In order to avoid misinterpretation, because in this case, if we consider it to be a continuing gambling, a concession should be granted. However, the concession is limited by law to only two companies. This revised amendment, however, limits or makes it more clear that occasional gambling is a 25 - a year competition. The introduction of sports betting is particularly important in order to find an additional financial source to promote this sport and the breeding of domestic horses which are necessary or related to it, so I ask for the appropriate support of this amendment, because this problem is being addressed which has not been easily solved so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I see there's still interest in the debate. I'm opening time for an application. The first is Mr Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u42	I understand this article and the amendment as a contribution to the resolution of an issue that is now going black, wild, however, depending on how someone is organised. Some things, however, are not clear to me. The fact that it opens up so that these competitions that are defined here can be arranged is right. I don't know why it's restricted now to 25 times a year. Above all, I am more interested in what the Minister for Agriculture actually has to do with this. The Minister of Agriculture, I believe he cares about horses, livestock law and so on, but in this part it's a typical operation called someone who bets, someone who organizes, someone who pays, pays off, and in the end, the tax is collected. That's why I don't know why you left the money out of this amendment, but you gave only agriculture. I'm not really good at this. You've got to get permission for a horse show before. And this is a completely different procedure. To organize an event for you to have a national calendar, probably like all sports industries, is to have a cassacean relationship or one that organizes it, along with members and with rules that they set themselves, the right to organise these things, to carry out them. Another activity that is parallel to this activity occurs, such as these horses’ bets. Like in Sežana, until they went bankrupt, there were dog bets, dog races that were passed on from England and bet there. I don't believe the Ministry of Agriculture and any other ministry had anything to do with it. Because in that part, as it is said, when it comes to the relationship of the one who bets, the one who collects bets, the one who pays on the other side, and, of course, the country that has to regulate it. I think or I don't understand, or I should explain why you let the financiers go, and you gave the Ministry of Agriculture to deal with this question: how much, when, why and so on. In this context, if I understand correctly, the Minister of Agriculture may decide not to give any such things, although it has no reason and does not affect the race itself, only the competition, the state championship itself or the international competition or whatever it is. Given that the committee member had been corrected, the amendment had then been tabled and now amended, I would still like to hear what is more right.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. I think I should say a few sentences, given that I come from the cradle of this cassava sport in Slovenia - Ljutomera. In this town there have been cassava races for 140 years and perhaps also to refresh the memory that we had a second registered club in the Austro-Hungarian monarch, the first was in Vienna. Here it is simple and easy to deal with a matter related to the breed of a lustomer butcher. With bets already organised at horse races and organised by neighbouring European countries in the past, we wanted to help breed the Lztomer reaper, which is an autochthonous variety in Slovenia. The competitions are organised from 21 to 25 in Slovenia, of which 8 are in Ljutomer. They also organize alongside Ljutomer in Lenart, Maribor, Ljubljana and elsewhere. That's what they say. It's about helping the breed of a scavenger. This is simple and simple, but there are some such open questions that the profession is likely to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thanks again for saying that. I must say that I am quite adhering to my colleague Anderlich, who has previously thought about this amendment, on the point. If we look at the law to which it refers and this Article 16 but we also need to look at a few articles earlier that talk about who can organise and speak only about societies and humanitarian organisations. Here he is talking about the organiser, talking again about the need to gain the consent of the Minister responsible for agriculture, which is in some conflict with the existing law, which says that only the Minister of Finance can grant this power. I don't know if that's right. I also support intent, I know what the proposer wants, but this law also speaks of how such a game can only be arranged once a year. In Article 14, the organiser may organise a number lottery, raffle or lucky and so on once a year. And then this law goes on until article 16 and I don't know how we can then change in some article to 25 times a year. And he also says in the 15th, that the organizer who organizes sports competitions can only throw bets once a year. It is said that another article should be corrected or at least referred to as not applicable in this case, but not only Article 16 of the current law. But it is in a way a little strange, because there are probably other games to bet on, and it would make sense, if an addition is already inserted, maybe some other animals, as a colleague previously suggested, dogs, roosters, might be camels in the future. This article is difficult to resolve and, in fact, complicates the situation more than it does.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Chairman. I must say that I will support this amendment, but I would like to see all those legal uncertainties that have been exposed as a problem in this debate also settled and resolved. Otherwise, if we have more than 30 cassava races in Slovenia, but we can only bet on four, this is about as much as if we had 20 rounds in the football league and we would let the audiences go to the playground to watch only three or four games. The purpose is good, especially because it is in support of the Lozgomer treasurer, which is a Slovenian indigenous breed, and this means more than just betting in those places, it is also a social event. However, I agree with all those who have opened up that the problem is broader and should be considered as such. But when problems and problems, if you solve one, then there is one less to solve. Something needs to be done immediately, but at the same time the context and the story should be closed as a coherent whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Willy Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I will try to respond to the part of the comments that have been raised. At first glance, it might look like what the Minister of Agriculture is looking for here. But it is important to know that cassava clubs and their association as a liaison, the cassásca headquarters, do not belong to sports organizations, like who thinks at first sight, but to livestock organisations or breed organizations. And under the applicable livestock law, the Minister for Agriculture and Food is responsible for them. These organisations also run the so-called Register of Horses and are exclusively under the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture. And in order to avoid any abuse, the Minister for Agriculture's consent is meaningful in this respect. The idea of giving consent to the Minister of Finance is only at first sight, but if we read the law well, it would mean that the Minister of Finance would give his consent to his decision because he decides on the authorisation to arrange and the consent of the Minister of Agriculture is unnecessary, illogical and should, I apologize, read the text in an integrated manner. The observation that other sports organisations and other non-profit organisations can organise, such as a dictatorship in law, once a year, this is true, but breeding organisations are not one of those, so they are resolved by this special article and the matter is very clear, transparent, and not to say simple and clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, did you raise your hand? [[Yeah.]] Here's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u52	That's it. Time's running fast. Mr. Trophynik, I'm a little surprised, however, that you claim here that cavalry is not a sport. Cavalry is an Olympic sport. Long years, he was one of the first. And now we're not going to go down to the barracks, to skip obstacles or anything, we can have a long and wide discussion here. Of course, I say that it would be pointless for the Ministry of Agriculture to involve it in a way that further burdens it by deciding who it will give and who it will not give its consent to. In one way or another, they can organize this in a variety of ways; they can also organize it by using the Internet or via television channels and so forth. I mentioned the dog race earlier - in Slovenia we had such a bet, now I don't think it is anymore because those salons in Sežana, if I'm not mistaken, have been closed. And this is a typical financial operation for me, if you want, a financial operation. If the calendar of the event is further known each year, the one who organises these bets will decide and know that up to 25 of these bets can be organised. And that's why he doesn't have to go to the Minister of Agriculture if the Minister of Finance, as you say, has already given him permission to do so. Then why should I even have to agree? Because there's not enough horses because there's too many horses? And the minister will say, "Oh, that doesn't make any sense to set up a bet here, and I won't give you consent!" This should be particularly the case for those who organise these bets, which does not necessarily mean that clubs that grow and compete and so forth can be another organisation that they agree on or do not agree on, depending on who gets the consent of the Ministry of Finance. I am grateful for the lessons, but it seemed to me that this amendment or this article, as it was written in the Committee's amended bill, was to regulate this key issue, if the Ministry of Agriculture, but certainly for the finance, is a whole series of financials and here I think it would be more useful. But since the amendment is what it is, of course I will see how I will act in the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Guilty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u54	Thanks again. I am also increasingly convinced that the Minister of Agriculture has nothing to do with this agreement. It may happen that the Red Cross organises a horse competition in which it organises a bet, under all the articles of the law it is justified to do so and to organise a bet only requires the consent of the Ministry of Finance, as defined in the present law. I don't know what the Minister for Agriculture needs. I also kind of like to hear what the Law-Legal Service thinks about this amendment because I don't think it's in line with the existing law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u55	Secretary of State, Mrs. Helena Kamnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Horse competitions or any other animal competition shall be organised on the basis and in accordance with the Animal husbandry law. It lays down specific rules on how such cases should be handled with regard to the protection of animals. And that requires the consent of the Minister of Agriculture. If such a competition is still related to bets, so it has elements of gambling, then under the Gambling Act, the organiser must obtain the authorisation of the Minister of Finance on the basis of another provision of this law. Therefore, in this case, there is no need for the consent of the Minister of Finance, because he has to obtain a permit, which is, I think, Article 16 of the Basic Law stipulates that it is necessary for the Minister of Finance to authorise horse betting to be organised. The number in this amendment is set for this reason because, in the case of a permanent organisation of gambling, concessions are granted. And it happens all the time. In this case, there is a limited number of actions, i.e. a limited number of horses’ bets over a certain period. For this reason, there is an upper limit or an upper number of possible bets which can be organised by one organiser on the basis of the permission of the Minister of Finance, with the consent of the Minister of Agriculture. This article is thus written down and is in line with the livestock law and with the basic solution of the gambling law, which provides that the organiser must obtain permission from the Minister of Finance to carry out gambling activities. Allow me, as I speak, just one more answer that I owe to the three-year limitation of an individual to prohibit his or her participation in gambling. Three years is not a scientifically sound time. According to our conduct, there is no scientifically sound time for another five years. Each individual decides to do it again after three years, and he is still three years old. There is no limit here if the individual decides it is necessary. Of course, the government will not object if you decide that this is five years.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u58	That's the whole point of the Secretary of State saying that these are two separate things. One is that the Minister of Agriculture approves the calendar to agree to the events, which are also 30 or more per year, and the part concerning the implementation of the bets. Therefore, it is totally incomprehensible in this part that the Minister of Agriculture will once again give his consent to which of these thirty bets will be allowed to be adjusted, as only 25 per year are allowed. That's absurd. Those who organise bets and have the permission of the Ministry of Finance will choose from the calendar to which the Minister of Agriculture has given his consent to organise them in accordance with the rules governing this area. There's nothing else going on here.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Trophynic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u60	Unfortunately, I have to intervene. What my colleague Anderlich did, of course, is not true. He's, I don't know, knowingly or reluctantly doing speculation. There are no 30 races from which you would choose 25. 25 is the upper limit. Number 25 has never been exceeded in the history of the cashier’s office, which is the organizer, and that is the normal number that is acceptable and there is no selection from the calendar. But I have to say very gravely, here in practice or at home we are talking about horses. A diction from the livestock law is a hoof. But it's not about the races of any hoof, because there's more hooves, but it's specifically about certain horses. With all these variations on this topic, the basic text needs to be read, for which sports events or races are related: cassacean races, cassacean races under the saddle, flat gallop races and gallop races over obstacles. What used to be a talk about parking or training is a pure sports organization. However, according to Slovenian livestock legislation, unfortunately, this is the case. These clubs that organize it, or societies, do not belong in the sports sphere, but in the breeding sphere. And that's why they're under the influence of the Minister of Agriculture. It could also be different, but they run breed books and all this sense of introduction of sports betting as a source of possible income - because there will be not much at the beginning - is in terms of promoting this indigenous breed, which has been spoken of here, and I do not intend to repeat it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the amendment and Article 9. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment and Article 24. Who wants a word? Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u62	Thanks again for saying that! The previous debate was a little bit more interesting, which I think will be a little less. However, I will later ask my colleagues to consider, when voting, that if we include an agricultural minister when we talk about bets, it would probably be appropriate to include an economic minister when we are talking about gambling. I think he's more connected to gambling and gaming law than he is to the Minister of Agriculture. As far as Article 24 is concerned, part of the revenue generated from the gambling activity is also allocated to the Protection and Rescue Authority, specifically to their services, and is intended to purchase protective and rescue equipment. The justification goes in the direction of, in some way, increasing the burden of natural disasters and, on the other hand, the new budgets adopted for 2010 and 2011, where funds for these purposes are essentially reduced and could be made possible through such a resource that is intended for the entire population in Slovenia. So I appeal to you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment concerns concession benefits from special gambling. Unfortunately, the article on general gambling was not open and we were unable to adapt to this article. It is, however, the fact that the law or article is now in force that 2.2% of the concession fee is allocated to the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in Slovenia, 2.2% is devoted to the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations and so on, and 50% of the rest is the income of the budget for the development and promotion of tourism and 50% is allocated to the local community in the surrounding tourist area. We propose that 2.2, therefore, no one is taken for the purpose of 2.2% of the concession fee for the relations operating within the Department of Protection and Rescue. We are talking about the Firesilski link Slovenia, the Mountain Rescue Service, the Jamarski link Slovenia, the Kinological link Slovenia, about divers and so on, and only with one purpose: to buy rescue and protection equipment. Why are we suggesting this? Because this is very similar in some European countries, and this is comparable. The next reason is that the funds in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in the last two years or in the last year and beyond are falling dramatically in 2010 and 2011. Funding in the field of protection against natural and other disasters is also being reduced. It follows that some projects will have to be reprogrammed so that some projects will also have to be cancelled. We must also be aware that the funds in the municipalities, probably the more mayors sitting here among us, are shrinking and it will be difficult to provide 45% of the funds for the operation of these services that I have been talking about. We are faced with one major problem when funds in all areas are falling and we are witnessing more and more natural disasters. And natural disasters will follow us into the future. And here we have one very nice opportunity to devote some resources to these people who are willing to sacrifice their time, their work, including their money to save those who need help. I believe you will support this amendment. This amendment does not take anything from anyone, but it is a great opportunity to fill the gap created by the reduction of the budget, both state and municipal budgets. Some mayors devote between 0.1% and 5% to these cases. And here's an opportunity to really devote a few more resources to this activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that this amendment is useful. When there are some natural disasters, the state then finds that it does not have enough money and that, in fact, even if the words "whoever does, quickly" are spoken here, it happens that the state never gives the money it promises. I could have listed the cases, but I won't. As far as concession fees are concerned, I would like to say that. Many municipalities have also planned budgetary revenue on these taxes. Many municipalities are in this item, as the proposer suggests, to throw something out of the concession fee back for equipment and so on, not to say dependent on a country entirely dependent on the financing of the country, because we know that there are many small municipalities that have grown their time like mushrooms in the rain and do not have the resources planned for such activity or protection. I would also like to point out that the rigidity of the proposer, according to the Government, in a comprehensive solution to this problem, which is called gambling, will have catastrophic consequences. To lay down something we can do today, tomorrow or spring, I believe it will hardly be autumn, is out of the question. And thus filling the gaps with numerous amendments to the existing law shows that the law is bad, that a new one needs to be prepared as soon as possible. Once again, thirdly, today I call on you not to delay this until spring. The municipalities have prepared programmes to invest in this activity, they also have potential investors, they are not only Gorica, they are also other municipalities that would like to do something about it, but they do not have the legal basis to open themselves up and finance themselves. After all, they would no longer be on the state budget nursery and would ensure sustainable development. If we solve these matters only when we open the law, and in the items where we will consider that this would not be harmful and put off a good solution for the next period, then we will do nothing. We're gonna miss the good times. This should be highlighted. But I have a feeling that whatever we can do in the National Good Council, we will do wrong on purpose. I don't know why. Even those proposals that are good, positive and show some profitability and profitability, profit, and also a positive impact on the budgetary side of the municipalities and countries, are rejected. I just don't understand why such a stiffness, why, in fact, such a nonsalanity to this budget field, when we're picking it up, we're always finding that there's no money. Dear Members and Members, colleagues, colleagues! This should be our advantage: gambling and tourism. We are ignoring this real opportunity that we have in the Slovenian space. I don't know why we don't want to develop this, because the country wouldn't be completely worthless in terms of funding if it allowed foreign investors to open up this kind of activity if they dropped the tax, which is kind of stupid. We're in the middle of Europe, probably the only country that's doing this. Maybe we can find this in some banana republic that this is happening. We'd have more investors here today, more new hotels, more new tourist and guest facilities. And this should also be a condition for all investors who come as new applicants for concessions, not just acquaintances. Let them do something in the room. I mentioned one case earlier. If we build on charging the investor to regulate the public park area to build, in addition to having a casino, this will be a new attribute in the city, this will be a new opportunity for employment and a new one in the tourist offer. No, we're still working on who knows who and who is with whom in good relations, and this will also get a black one at rented premises, concessional permission to arrange gambling.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u67	Mr. Friend, you're a little behind. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u68	I know, President, I'm a little down, but I'm sticking to this amendment. I'm talking about what we can get into the budgets of the municipalities and the countries, but we don't know what to pick up. Therefore, I also welcome this amendment from the SDS's proponents that we should also allocate more resources to help those municipalities that can do so and want to arrange in such a way that they have greater security against natural disasters and captures. I know I came out of this, but on purpose, I want to say that the country is actually very much. For these irregularities, which are also pointed out by the mayors of municipalities in which this activity is present, there will be no responsible for these irregularities in the state authorities, but will have a million-dollar impact on the revenue side of the budget. No one's gonna answer. Nobody. And more. I believe that you are also deceiving us today, when you speak, the distinguished representative of the government, that we will have a new law in the spring, on the parliamentary benches, to regulate it. The new law will, once again, point out that this whole issue will not be settled and you appear, as it were, in the role of a thief. So far, you've actually been stealing legally what was given as a tip. And you tax twice the same thing, which is totally illegal and also constitutionally controversial. And no one can harm you, nor can the law enforcement authorities harm you, because you are government officials and you can also write an illegal matter into the law and carry it out. That's some kind of shit.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u69	Mr Friend, your debate was also not correct because it was far from the questions raised in Article 24. But some other time. Let's think about it. Mr. Luka Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Friend's colleague is essentially commenting on himself with such a debate, so there is no point in responding to uncompromised insinuations. However, as regards the view that the state should go to some kind of social dumping, reduce taxes in order to attract new foreign investors to build hotels, I would like to draw attention to the following. What is the meaning of gambling and gambling for Slovenia? What did gambling bring most to Slovenia and, above all, to certain areas of Slovenia? The point is that the country has received substantial tax revenues from this activity, so that we can provide certain jobs. When one of these two reasons begins to dry, a question arises as to the meaning of gambling. However, let us not forget the many negative consequences that gambling can bring to society. Today I recall the debate already held on addiction, etc. Playing yes, but this gambling must bring certain benefits to people in terms of employment and to the country in terms of inflows, because after all part of these inflows must go back to solving the social problems that you want to play, you don't want to bring. Not just addiction. Unfortunately, gambling has other consequences. And if you don't know which one, go see how many night cubes and prostitutions you can find where the most concentrated gaming activity is done. I'm afraid it's connected. So I do not agree with the argument that we have to lower taxes and that the country needs to sell out so that foreigners can come and invest in our hotels. Why? So we can hire our people as maids or otherwise at nightclubs? The purpose of the development of Slovenia and border areas in Slovenia is significantly different from that of such social dumping and the sale of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u71	Mr. Friend asked for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u72	Yeah, I was named. Thank you. Dear Luke, my colleague, you are unable to defend your fellow Members, and I will. I was appointed, you said we were wasting our insinuations and so on. Your proposaler, Mirko Brulc, wrote that the current regime lays down the same tax base for two taxes: concession tax and gambling taxes, which means that he is an economic operator, thus paying the tax. Such an arrangement puts economic operators, concessionaires, compared to all other entities in an unequal position. A further assessment of the applicant was made in this amendment, which was slightly refused to cause economic damage in the environment. And I have said about this that this is unacceptable and that the state should not, in fact, allow that the individual development options of the municipalities that plan their budgetary revenue are also at risk at this rate. And the fact is that this law, which we have as we have, is illegal and unconstitutional, makes it possible to die on meals to municipalities that would also like to develop tourism activities, including what we talked about in this amendment, self-protection within the congregation and also in new jobs, is a new added value. You don't allow that. What happened in the Primorska region when we adopted this law during this time period, you can see in Gorica. Gorica was the development potential of Slovenia, today it is not, certainly not the poorest municipality, but is lagging behind. And even when a new opportunity arose to give this congregation the opportunity to do something, we also gave up that opportunity and again set up bureaucratic obstacles to not making the big investment that we all talked about. And that's economic crime for me, Sir Luke.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u73	Mr. Luke Juri has signed up for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u74	Even in this debate, with little exception from your conclusion, you have shown that the argument can also be made correctly if it is desired. And my, even a little personal view of the previous debate, honourable Member, was not about the content, because you have the right and it is right there to argue, but about the way in which you put it. I think that it is incorrect for state officials to be Members, Members, Officials, not to be important, but to be submitted to a fellow man who creates certain legislation by commenting that they are preparing jokes, that they can be prosecuted and so on. I think that's incorrect. You have this right, but with this you are a mirror to yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Friend, you'll be left with a replica, I think, under 10 seconds, 11 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u76	Yes, I'll just discuss it, because you've already allowed Mr. Luke a replica of the replica. I would only say what was said outside the context was also in your debate. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Let's be right when we criticize someone. [[...]] And as for prostitution, you know, prostitution can be somewhere else, not just in the casino, but I think it's the least.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had no intention of making an announcement, but I listened carefully to all the arguments. The fact is, they have one and the other. If I try to describe what we can see when we come from a neighbouring country, especially at evening hours and now that there is no limit, or when this border is Schengen, when we enter Slovenia, what do we notice first? Strange colors, strange lights that warn us that it is a land, a paradise of gaming and all kinds of activities. The fact is that when Slovenia developed gambling as an important part in the former Yugoslavia and as an important source of revenue controlled by the country or certain very special services of this country and we know who benefited from it, today we are faced with growing temptations after liberalisation, after the privatisation of gambling and after the development of such activities, which are somehow related to gambling. As you know, she was only years ago. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u79	I regret to inform you, too, that we are talking about Article 24 and the amendment to Article 24.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u80	Of course, but allow me, Vice President, the debates have gone so far as to allow me, too. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u81	I've warned everyone and I've asked for correctness. I'm warning you, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u82	But what I am saying is an argument on this article, on support for this article or amendment. It is a matter of defining a clear structure for the taxation of activities and the beneficial share that we will devote from this activity to those activities that we consider to be socially important and which are interpreted or can be understood only if we value the entire casino landscape that comes with us, especially at the border - here I am very surprised by the kind of affection of a colleague from the Slovenian National Party and serves mainly entertainment, pleasures, guests coming from the other side of the border and everything is legitimate. The fact is that what is happening at this borderline in recent years is some excessive transformation of landscapes, including cultural landscapes, including the mentalities of our people, so I started this discussion with the image that we can see when we come from a neighbouring country where there are actually stricter criteria where there is a certain culture to play, which prevents some liberal development of this activity. In our case, it is already aesthetically visible when we cross the border in Škofija or cross it in Goriška [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u83	Mr. Yuri, don't mind me. You haven't said another sentence in connection with Article 24 and the amendment to Article 24 and the amendment. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u84	Of course it's connected, Mr. Vice President. Of course. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u85	No, no, no. The lights that speak in Nova Gorica are really not related to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u86	Yeah. You know, that's the price we pay with the casino. And that is why we need to define exactly what benefits we will have from such activities that spoil the image, psychology, culture, mentality of our areas where gambling is so generously developed. Of course, there are also beneficial influences in tourism, in other activities, but we all would, of course, want to optimize the activities that are affecting us as much as possible, as we can see from the debate on the mega playground in Goriška years ago, which interfere in some form, in some aesthetics and, in fact, in the way and style of life of our people. That is why the amendment to Article 24, and I will end it, Mr President, is actually justified in terms of optimising the playing field, so I do not see any contentious aspects in this. All these debates that have gone very far, including mine [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u87	Comrade Franco, you've got it right, but you've gone too far with this amendment. Please limit yourself to the amendment you've already promised twice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u88	I don't understand why only my debate is problematic. When Mr Friend spoke and went so far, no one warned him that he could stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u89	That's our job. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u90	In this House, you always come to your attention when we speak to Members who stick to the rules. [[...]] And except when we go a little further, that becomes a problem. Let's be tolerant of everyone. The Zares Group has another 7 minutes of 42 seconds and I ask that the President no longer intervenes in the free debate of all Members. As we listened to Mr. Friend, as we listen to the others, please listen to me as well. But I'll be done. What I was about to say, I also said. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can only see one hand. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u92	The amendment to Article 24 is, in fact, very cleverly written and gives some promise to deal with some issues better, to provide material resources for certain activities. But, unfortunately, we're interfering with it somewhere else, because sharing it is already defined in one way or another. In this way, they would simply take someone away and give them to them. I'm not ready enough to discuss this. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Way to go. [[...]] I've got some letters on the table talking about how bad or too little is being shared for foundations that are supposed to be powered from this source.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I ask again for an application for an amendment to Article 24. The word is "silva blackugelj."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. This is an amendment to Article 24 of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which I will not support, despite the fact that they have drawn ideas for the drafting of this amendment from a broad European practice, which is very different and also the emergence of different options. I've always been in favour of gambling if those who are so profitable are already committed to social and disability organisations. And not only from the gambling segment, but also from other sources, as we could draw ideas from other European rich legislation. I personally will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I note that there is no longer a desire for a debate, so I am concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2008 AND 2009, RELEVANT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word has magic. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Law on the implementation of the 2008 and 2009 budget should be amended in view of the new wage agreement concluded with representative public sector unions and the amended Law on Public Sector Salaries, which entered into force in July of this year. This is said after the adoption of the law on the implementation of the budget applicable this year. It is a fact that, as one of the measures against the crisis in our desire to reduce budgetary expenditure and public spending, we have limited the availability of funds for wages. We have written these restrictions in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. All restrictions for 2009 were applicable until November 2009, because it was not clear at the time what policy will be paid in 2010. Following a new agreement with the trade unions, which was concluded for the period 2010 and 2011, there will also be a restrictive policy over the next two years, including in December 2009, which will mainly limit the means of regular work and the means to pay for the increased volume of work. If the amendments to the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets were not proposed, discontinuity would occur during that period and public servants would have the right to a different regime of performance than otherwise envisaged for the entire period in December. In addition, the law also regulates work performance for judges, prosecutors and lawyers. As a result of the amendment of the Wages Act, the right to work performance has ceased from 1.7 for them to increase work volume and to achieve regular work performance as a replacement for higher pay levels. The Budget Implementation Act, however, sets out the mass of resources for work performance related to the whole year, and this amendment of the law is limited to half a year, that is to say to the period when the amendment of the Wages Act does not yet apply to this group of officials. And another matter that's regulated by the law. A solution in the area of mayors' salaries is inadequate at present, as if we do not go beyond the legislative changes in this area, the imbalances in their salaries are eliminated in December of this year, which would mean that the treated are significantly more favourable than all other public servants and public officials. Therefore, we propose that this group of employees also be subject to the elimination of wage imbalances, in accordance with the wage agreement. It's briefly the content of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to a member of Miroslav Klun to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Helena Kamnar, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 16th urgent session, on 13. 11. 2009 was treated as a parent labour body by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the text and, in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and in the legislative and technical context, which makes a concrete comment on Articles 1 and 4 of the legislative proposal, which points out that the fulfilment of the conditions for retroactivity used in the explanatory memorandum is not clear, as there is no clear justification for the inclusion of legal content subject to other rules. The Committee was co-chaired by representatives of the Ministry of Finance and representatives of the ZPS. Qualified applicants have not tabled any amendments to the proposal. Otherwise, the accompanying explanation results in a projection of public financial aggregates, which indicates a deeper structural nature of the public finances problem, while maintaining high deficits in the long term will increase the problem of public financial sustainability. For that reason, it is justified that the planned measures are to a large extent carried out on the basis of a reduction in public financial revenues. This text does not give rise to specific principles, but its aim is to harmonise certain legal solutions with the social partners as well as to achieve the optimum limit for maximising the reduction of the factors of unstable public finances during the financial crisis. According to a representative of the Government, an amendment is submitted as a result of an amended wage agreement adopted in October of this year. In the preparation of the ZIPR, such an amendment was not expected or was solely linked to the above-mentioned years, with the payment category December 2009, paid in January 2010, not covered. In essence, the text removes the legal void by establishing the necessary continuity of individual pay categories in 2010 and the proposal for a law to be supported. In the discussion on the questions raised regarding the warnings given on the basis of the opinion of the ZPS by the representative of the Government, it was explained that the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, which has been in force since 1. Seven. 2009, provides that the law in question provides that regular work performance for an increase in the volume of work in 2009 shall be suspended or transferred to an increase in basic wages from that date. At the same time, the ZIPR sets a regular performance resource weight of 2% for the whole year or once a year, by providing the groups concerned with a specific performance determination system at the end of the year. For the reason that regular work performance will be determined in December 2009, it is not a case of backward intervention, however, according to the opinion expressed in the specific case. The Committee then voted on all articles of the text submitted and also adopted them. As no amendments have been adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009 be adopted in the present text.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Greetings to all present and Madam Secretary. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the bill, because because of the crisis in the economy and consequently also in the public treasury, the Government has been forced to cut into certain ratios in the field of public financial expenditure. The financial and economic situation has plunged Slovenia, along with the rest of the world, into a major crisis, and that is what we know about on the side of public finances. That is why we think it is appropriate that the Government has put in place measures to reduce expenditure. In addition to other measures, it has also been necessary to cut into the area of wages, particularly in the area of salaries of public servants, which, like everyone in this country, share the fate and consequences of the times of crisis. Since the first agreement with the social partners in terms of public finances has not been sustained, it has been necessary to cut down once again in this relationship, and this law thus aims to harmonise legal solutions, thereby reducing the risk of public finances being stable in the wake of the crisis, which we consider essential and favourable in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. The first amendments relate to the payment of work performance for judges, state prosecutors and state attorneys, and this law sets out the level of resources for the payment of regular work performance in 2009 only for the period from 1 January to 30 June of that year. This must be done because, at the time of the amendment of this Act, it is not possible to determine with certainty when the amendments to the Law on Salaries in the System of Public Servants which no longer provide for the payment of regular work performance for those officials. Furthermore, it also seems important in our position to emphasise the amendment which provides that part of the salary for regular work performance is not due to public servants for the period December to November 2011. This amendment is a result of an agreement between the social partners on public sector wage measures for the period December 2009 - November 2011. In order to harmonise the legal basis, it is necessary to amend the period laid down in Article 36a of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009. Similarly, it is necessary to amend Article 36.b concerning the payment of work performance on the basis of the increased volume of work, where the limitation of payments is extended to December 2009. The last amendment envisaged by the bill also refers to the delay for mayoral officials, the elimination of disproportionates in basic salaries, meaning in other words that the mayors share the fate of public servants and will be coordinated later on as envisaged. Following this agreement, it is therefore necessary to suspend that provision of the Public Sector Salaries Act, which requires that appropriations for the elimination of disproportionates be provided at the time of December 2009 wages. This will not happen because of the public financial crisis, of course, and this will not happen at the Liberal Democracy Club, as well as all the above, as proposed by the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u101	Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u102	The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009. We accept the Government's argument that the law does not legitimize specific principles. The law only actually coordinates the agreement reached with the social partners that coordinate salaries in the public sector for public servants. We believe that it has not been easy for government representatives to harmonise or somehow freeze the elimination of wage imbalances for more than 160,000 civil servants, much more so because the reform of the pay system is somehow moving away from 2010, which has been both legal and confirmed by the collective public sector agreement. On this occasion, recognition should be given to all those who participated in the negotiations to take a compromise decision on wage coordination, wage reform and to extend it slightly in 2011 and 2012. Let us be optimistic and hope that the overall economic and financial situation will change for the better and that this reform can be implemented a little earlier. The amendment of the Law on the implementation of the budget for 2008 and 2009 also has financial implications both for the 2009 and 2010 State budget and for other public cash financing both at the level of the State and the local community. More than a financial impact, however, is the knowledge that public servants share the fate of workers in the real sector, at least in the coordination of wages and the elimination of wage imbalances. By freezing the elimination of disproportionates, however, it is without prejudice to the already acquired rights of workers acquired through this wage reform. As it is said, the Group of Social Democrats will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u104	Dear President! Colleagues and colleagues! This law also illustrates and testifies that the Government and the coalition are not in fact aware of the seriousness of the crisis or the situation that has arisen not only in Slovenia, but also wider and is actually going with some ridiculous symbolic measures over the serious problems that not only the Slovenian economy is facing, but also people. So when we look at the financial effects of these, this year is actually a symbolic level below the million euro and in the coming years a few million euros, and we all know that only the deficit of the state budget for next year is planned to be slightly less than two billion euros. And also the approach of the Government to negotiate with the public sector and with certain privileged groups of officials in such a way as to move away, i.e. to eliminate wage imbalances, to interfere with that part of the salary which is intended to reward the more successful, more efficient, is flawed. According to our assessment, the country should take advantage of this period as a period of opportunity to depreciate Slovenians and the Slovenian economy of unnecessary procedures and consequently unnecessary bureaucrats by numerous institutions, agencies, offices, ministries, sectors, etc. Therefore, savings in unnecessary procedures should be sought and consequently in the number of employees in the public sector. In my opinion, wage imbalances should continue to be eliminated and successful rewards awarded. I guarantee that such an approach would generate substantial, substantial amounts of savings, not only for the time and period of crisis, but also for the need of the Slovenian public administrations of many unnecessary both bureaucratic and administrative tasks and, consequently, for the sediment that has accumulated in the various services of the public administration during these years. Instead of thinking about the challenges, we are thinking about how administratively we will delay something and make an impact. We will not save and save practically anything, gentlemen, and sooner or later we will get this as a boomerang back. This is an improper approach and is indeed a drop into the sea compared to the financial difficulties the Slovenian economy and public finances are dealing with. So, a few million euros for practically 2 billion deficits next year. That's one thing I want to highlight. The other thing is: you say that this law does not introduce any specific systemic changes, but it merely summarizes the social agreement or some agreement between the social partners in this law. I ask you - okay, here you are betting on social dialogue and you wrote it down in some way - what about reducing pensions or reducing the coordination of pensions in the future or reducing the coordination of social transfers in the future? Have you also spoken there with social partners or representatives of these groups to whom you are encroaching? You didn't! You will deprive pensioners of the coordination of pensions without harmonising with anyone, except probably with representatives of individual political options or even civil society, which - not with everyone, but with those close to you. According to our assessment, this is an extremely partial, inconsistent and ineffective measure that will not do anything, in fact, it will not contribute anything to what is actually the purpose, that is to save something at the expense of public administration and of course on salaries. Once again, according to our assessment, the problem is significantly more serious, and there is also an opportunity to make some important, unpopular cuts in public administration, so that Slovenia and all those working in the framework, and especially economic operators, would shake off a number of unnecessary procedures, and that this would make the administration more efficient and probably even cheaper or especially cheaper. And that should be the goal. In this law, you do not follow this goal at all, and you will find it difficult to get our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word is given by Willi Trofenik on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u106	Again, thank you so much for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The amendment of the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009, of course with the emphasis of 2009, is necessary as a result of amendments to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, based on the right to regular work performance, agreement on public sector wage measures for the period December 2009-2011 and the necessary elimination of imbalances for A5 or mayors. We will support the proposed law in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word is given by Willi Rezman on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u108	I too, Mr President, will be very brief, because it is the view of the Group of Members that this bill should be supported for a very simple reason. The content of those measures we are talking about has been adopted a long time ago, and this law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia 2008-2009 does not change anything. We are allowing this law to make it possible to implement what has been substantively agreed, even formally. And if we want to do what we set out in the 2008 budget and what we have changed in the meantime, to do, then we simply have nothing left to do but adopt the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. He has neither the ambition nor the ability to dramatically change our social situation, so we will have to take other measures, other regulations, and we will, after all, talk about this in the context of this meeting of the National Assembly when we talk about budgets for 2010 and 2011. So, the DeSUS Group intends to support this bill and we were more disturbed by what was written by the Law-Legal Service regarding concerns than by the substantive debate that took place.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. According to the applicant, the proposal for amendments and the completion of the Law on the Implementation of Budgets for 2008 and 2009 should be adopted in order to comply with the measures resulting from the signed agreement with the representative public sector unions. We find it somewhat unusual to accept such changes at the end of November, almost one month before the expiry of the law in question. In addition, our scepticism about the sense of doing so strengthens the position of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which says that it is a matter of modifying the legal regime for backward, as the extent of the funds already used is changing. Therefore, the volume of resources is decreasing, although almost all payments for performance have already been made in 2009. We join the issue of the Legal and Legislative Service, which is therefore the status of the funds whose payment exceeds the legal scope. Above all, the question is what is the purpose of adopting such a law. We have not received a convincing answer to this question. In fact, it does not matter whether such a law is passed or not, so Members of the SLS Group will abstain from voting on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u111	In the second place, thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. The basis of the theory is that revenue in the state budget is falling during the recession and crisis; that expenditure in the state budget is increasing; that the reserves in the past, as they say in the report, are not and that if nothing is done, an increased debt. This is purely economic logic, which is taught as early as possible. This is why the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia is to be amended and supplemented. At the outset, the proposal discusses the pressures on public finances, deficits, long-term sustainability, after we move on to the right to pay regular work performance, to work performance on the basis of the increased work of public officials, which is the usual logic for re-burdening the budget. So there's something about this marriage that doesn't belong in this marriage because it's in the clear opposite. I don't understand at all that we can walk so quietly across the Constitution, as the Legal and Legal Service has pointed out. It is quite clear that this is an infringement of the law backwards and that this intervention is permitted on the basis of Article 155 of the Constitution, where the public benefit so requires and where we do not interfere with the rights acquired. It is explicitly stated that there is no fulfilment of the conditions set out in the Explanatory Note to the Law or to amend and supplement the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets; it is clearly stated that there are no legitimate reasons to intervene backwards, but we are going back, meaning that we are adopting an illegal act. Secondly, the Legislative and Legal Service has made it clear that this is an intervention that reduces the transparency of the legal regime in force, introduces ambiguity and indecisiveness into the legal order and that such an intervention is allowed in a strictly limited extent, exceptionally and with restrictively justified reasons, and continues to avoid such reasons being given in the explanatory statement. The second - according to farm logic, if you want, Bogdana Barovica, Slovenian National Parties - is contrary to the law. Finally, I still argue that there are two articles that conflict with each other: in one article of the amendment and in addition to the law on the implementation of the budget, we are talking about the fact that regular work is not paid for the performance of the work. In the next article, 36.b, we have an exception where it says that "besides..." permits, and explicitly writes, rewards after work, rewards for regular work by 20%, and in particular rewards for increased labour by 30%. We cannot accept all of this in the Slovenian National Party, unfortunately. You can't tell me - I haven't talked to a good worker of one of the ministries on Saturday and he said literally, 300 of us are here, and only 5 of us are working now because we're in a hurry. I think he told me everything. And now we will reward people for an increased scale because they will be in a hurry and we will be taking others. Once again, if it's a war, it's a war for everyone. If we want to make order and save, as stated in this bill, €0.6 million in the 2009 state budget, €4.9 million in 2010 and other public finances of €2.1 million, totaling €7.6 million. 7.6 million euros would be saved - okay! But this 7.6 is going to be a one year or two net zero at the expense of all public workers that are not valid for them, and at the expense of those who are going to have specifically paid performance for, I don't know what regular work they're doing, because I don't know what they're doing, and I don't know what an increased amount of work they're doing. I think it's unfair to accept such a bill and not respect it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Constitutions and definitions which are clear and defined. Therefore, we cannot act illegally in the Slovenian National Party and adopt such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We are finished with the presentations on the positions of the groups. As no amendment to the draft law has been adopted by the mother labour force, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal for a law supplementing the law on corporate income tax within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word has magic. Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposal for a law is intended to align the tax situation of those persons who have leased a long-term loan before 1. 1. 2007 and those who leased loans after that period. The current regulation in the Law on corporate income tax introduced changes in the treatment of interest rates, namely the introduction of a so-called recognised interest rate for all credit contracts concluded after 1. 1. However, during the transitional provisions, this law did not regulate those loan contracts concluded before that date, thinking that this would not be necessary. As a result of the economic and financial crisis that has proved to be the case, the Government assesses that, as a result, the situation of borrowers with loans prior to this period has deteriorated significantly and therefore introduces the same regime for borrowers who have contractual relations prior to 1. 1. 2007 This is how we improve their financial position and compare them with everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to a member of Bogdan Čepič for presentation of the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 11th meeting, on 28. Ten. 2009 was treated as a parent labour body by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with a proposal for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be a proposal to examine the text submitted by means of a summary procedure at its 36th meeting, on 11. 9. 2009 also confirmed. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, with a specific comment on Article 1 of the legislative proposal. At the same time, the Legislative and Legal Service, in the framework of its general comments, emphasises that the Constitution allows the retroactive effect of individual legal provisions, provided that this requires public benefit or thus does not prejudice the rights acquired. The law submitted shall be open to the public within a period of time of business until 21. Ten. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, amendments to Article 1 of the legislative proposal were tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democrats, Zares, LDS and DeSUS, hereinafter referred to as the Coalition Group of Members. The amendment follows a warning from the Legislative and Legal Service in a way that fully follows the text of the basic Article, which sets interest rates between related persons or the recognised interest rate, thus contributing to the clarity and clarity of the text of the article in question and at the same time opens up the possibility of proving the so-called market interest rates set out in Article 19(1) and (2) of the Law on corporate income tax. Meetings of the Committee were attended by the Minister responsible for Finance with representatives from the Finance Ministry and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In the framework of the envisaged solutions, it is envisaged that the objectives set may be met in such a way as to ensure that the borrowers concluded during the date of application of the Tax Law can also apply Article 19 of the same law as it was supplemented or amended, and that the envisaged implementation of the transitional provision of the Law, with an appropriate solution, can be made more favourable. At the same time, the law aims to ensure easier uniform conditions of management and compliance with tax obligations by upgrading or adapting the existing solution to the application of the recognised interest rate to the newly created situation. Even according to the representatives of the Government, the amendments submitted complement the arrangements for taxable persons from the income of legal persons who have leased long-term loans before 1. 1. 2007, this is before the entry into force of the basic law which is subject to a transitional regime which derogates from the other regime. At the time of the presentation of the opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly stressed that the amendment of the coalition groups fully follows the specific comments of that service to Article 1 of the legislative proposal. As a follow-up objective, the proposal also referred to the provision of easier, uniform conditions for the management and fulfilment of tax obligations and the adjustment of the existing solutions to the application of the recognised interest rate, but it should be borne in mind that these factors which may be applied further cannot be changed in return to the conditions of management. In the context of its consideration, the Committee adopted the amendment of SD, Res, LDS and DeSUS to Article 1 of the legislative proposal. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee further voted on individual articles and also adopted them in accordance with Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. A complementary bill is an integral part of the report you have received.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Renata Brunskole has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Nicely greeted. With amendments to the law, we will set a transitional period for the application of the recognised interest rate so that the whole article, which sets out more options for taxpayers to take into account or apply the recognised interest rate in determining the tax base, will also apply to loans concluded before 1. 1. 2007 In this way, tax treatment will also be better and more favourable in the current situation. The purpose of the law or proposed measures is to ensure easier and uniform conditions for the management and fulfilment of tax obligations. It is also intended to upgrade and adapt existing solutions to the application of the recognised interest rate to the newly created situation. The principle of the law is to provide for measures that pursue those objectives and objectives. The draft law provides for the achievement of those objectives by implementing a solution whereby, following a proposal for a loan law concluded before the date of application, i.e. before 1.1.2007, the debtors may apply Article 19 of the Act as amended and amended. The solution is designed to supplement the current transitional decision by establishing a solution that makes the transitional solution in force more favourable. The second paragraph of Article 155 of the Constitution provides that only the law may provide that individual provisions of the Constitution have a retroactive effect, provided that this requires public benefit and does not prejudice acquired rights. The public benefit of retroactive application of certain provisions of this Act is reflected in the wider social interest to ensure, in times of financial and economic crisis, an appropriate tax policy response and, consequently, a more appropriate and favourable tax treatment of operators in the economic sectors most affected by the crisis. The law, although it regulates the situation backwards, does not prejudice the rights of the debtors acquired, but further extends these rights. The new arrangement will allow the debtors to take into account or prove that their interest rate chosen is comparable to that of the market interest rate. As a result, this will affect the business results of the debtors, since the expenditure, the costs paid for interest in certain cases can be fully tax recognised. On the basis of the arrangements in force, these expenditure was recognised to the extent of the recognised interest rate. Expansion of the possibility of taking account of other recognised interest rates will, according to the assessment, result in a certain return or a loss of public financial revenues from corporate income taxes. The reduction of public financial revenues will be carried out at the expense of the less tax levied and on the basis of the reimbursements of the tax already paid. It is estimated that the debtors who are expected to require the most reimbursements are banks, foreign-owned banks acquire long-term assets, loans to carry out their activities also from parent companies from abroad, which is in line with the normal business practice of these entities. For companies other than banks, the acquisition of long-term loans from their parent or related companies abroad is less frequent. According to the Association of Banks of Slovenia, which has obtained from its members an entire amount of interest relating to interest on related persons for loans concluded before 1.1.2007, which should be shown in accordance with Article 95 of the Bank's law as an increase in the interest on a given loan to connected persons or as a reduction in the interest on loans received by connected persons for 2007 and 2008 amounts to EUR 20,4 million. From this title, banks are expected to pay around €4.5 million of corporate income tax for both years, which is also an estimate of the loss of public financial resources for the debtors of the bank. It is estimated that this amount of EUR 4.5 million was also a realistic assessment of the reduction of public financial revenues due to the proposal for a law, as EURIBOR, at which the recognised interest rate, had dropped significantly in 2009 and was not expected to recover the interest paid in 2009. For all of this, the Group of Social Democrats will support the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support these solutions because they are good because they relieve the economy and make the system more transparent and clearer. However, when we saw the proposal for a law governing corporate income tax in the parliamentary group, we were delighted in this sense because we expected the Government to seriously burden the economy through this law, so that the Government would take necessary and necessary measures through this law to relieve the economy and consequently build economic activity. We expected the Government to deliver, not least, the promise of the President of the Government at the international trade fair when he opened and addressed the craftsmen, Prime Minister Borut Pahor, to equalise the tax reliefs of both independent entrepreneurs and capital companies or companies with limited liability and unlimited liability. At that time, he announced that he would remove the threshold when legal persons could apply tax reliefs. That's not what this proposal is about. So this promise is not fulfilled here. We expected the government to lower tax rates in the coming years, to consider introducing so-called tax holidays when entrepreneurs who are on the business path are not taxed for a few years and are encouraged to start this economic activity and to follow the way of entrepreneurs. We expected the government to consider introducing new tax reliefs. For example, tax reliefs also for investing in real estate, i.e. in buildings. I am convinced that the tax or public finance seized of such recognised tax reliefs are already positive for a short period of time, in order to increase the positive impact on public finances through increased economic activity and, last but not least, through increased spending and, finally, the involvement of private funds in public finances more than it would have been through this tax relief. In short, we expected serious measures that would remain in place during the economic crisis in terms of the activation of the economy and the decommissioning of the economy. Unfortunately, we have only one thing ahead of us, I am not saying that it is irrelevant - an important solution, but a solution that is far from enough at this time, and far from enough is not enough for the government to expect the economy. Respectable in the government and respected in the coalition. I propose that, in addition to these debates that we have in Parliament, you listen to economic operators, including those who are probably politically burdensome in assessing the Government's economic policy measures. You will see that in at least 90% of economists are not satisfied with the adequacy of these measures and attribute the situation in the Slovenian economy to inefficient and slow government action. This law could at least partially eliminate this, but it does not have these ambitions. It has significantly smaller ambitions, and in this proposal we also resent the proposal. Besides, it's better than nothing, and that's why we're going to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The word is given by Willi Rezman on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u122	The third position of the Group today will also be brief and favourable to the proposal drawn up by the Government and summarised in three points. The first discusses what, in fact, the Government promises and promises to regulate the situation in terms of establishing greater equality between those related companies which can only account for a recognised fixed interest rate within a given period and can account for each other’s interest rate each time. The government therefore estimates that it will thus help the economy and equalise the conditions for management, which unfortunately will have a negative impact on the budget. The main issue is that this discrimination, which is now being established, is being abolished. So these government ambitions are supported by the Desus Group. Another problem or other point I would like to briefly talk about is what the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out again, which several times - probably justified or I am convinced that it is justified - to point out this problem of retroactivity and the problem of cumulativeity of both conditions so that retroactivity can be applied at all. In this case, the condition called "public interest" is again problematic. At this point, a conviction can be broken. But we have two public interests: one is the public interest to eliminate the inequality of economic operators, which is now established to eliminate discrimination and, in this sense, businesses operate under unequal conditions and this is also contrary to the requirement of equality, equality, which also has a direct link with the Constitution, and on the other hand we have another condition of general public benefit. Whether, therefore, the elimination of inequality, the elimination of discrimination, the establishment of equal conditions is a public interest or not - and we insist that this is also a public interest - is what has weighed in our decision to support this proposal of law, despite the concerns of the Legal Service.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u124	Thank you very much, President. Today, we have before us a second law, which the government coalition is quick to take on the opinion of the National Assembly. The legislative and legal service has highlighted constitutionally defined conditions for the retroactive application of the law due to the proposed re-existence of the solution. There are two conditions, namely not to prejudice the rights acquired and the condition of the public benefit. The legislative and legal service assesses that these two conditions, which must be met cumulatively, are therefore not met at the same time. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, it is a matter of imposing an obligation on the State budget to pay the tax, for part of the tax paid for 2007 and 2008, at a time when measures are planned and taken to reduce budgetary expenditure. In addition, there is already a tax obligation which interferes with the actual situation already completed, and there is no doubt that the taxpayers have taken this tax obligation into account when carrying out their activities and, consequently, when designing the prices they have entered the market. The proposer, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, as the pursued objective of amending the law, lists the factors that may be put forward. In return, the conditions of management cannot be changed. Now it's the main one. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, the prohibition of retroactivity is one of the fundamental elements of the constitutional principle of the rule of law set out in Article 2 of the Constitution. The Constitutional Court also repeatedly states in its decisions that there is no legal certainty if it is not possible to trust in the applicable law and if it is not possible to rely on the rules in force. What was the response of the Government and the coalition to these expressed concerns of the Legal and Legislative Service? Nothing. Not a word of response to these concerns. Mr President of the National Assembly, on this occasion I also ask you why you do not in your coalition respect the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service. If you only take into account opinions that are politically appropriate for you, then we do not need a legislative and legal service in the process of adopting legislation. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we do not favour such carefree treatment, and for this reason we will not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u125	Thank you very much. A respected colleague of mags. Zerjav, the presentation of the views of the members of the groups is intended to explain the attitude of the Group to the law and not to raise questions or to the Government and not to the President of the National Assembly. This will be done by the National Assembly in the context of a hearing, which is as envisaged and prescribed, and will decide on the law by a vote. Bogdan Barovic has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. I hope, as far as I'm concerned, today is the last time I've heard of this pay phone. Here I would say to Mrs. Kamnareva that I understand you, but sometimes we are a little bit strange. We've been saving public finances for a while. We said, let's cut back, in the previous marriage, outflows that we'll save something, that won't just fall, fall, fall now with the second marriage, where they fall. [[...]] It's not your fault, I'm just saying I understand. We saved seven million before, I calculated, but now we've spent four and a half minutes after that. If there's another marriage, we're gonna waste that seven already in this session. I also understand the well-intentioned, probably already well-intentioned, proposed law. In this case, I must join one of the previous speakers in allowing this well-intention of the Government to many who would be able to help them out of this crisis or give them a little start. Well, in the financial implications assessment, where we find that the government revenue shortfall will be about 4 and a half million, we also read that banks will require the most returns. Well, it's a policy like it is, but it's probably some kind of legal person who deserves that kind of help and support. I understand the will, I understand the intention. I have also read that, in this case, there is a justification that there is a public benefit, i.e. as one of the conditions for retroactive intervention, in this case, to demonstrate in the wider social interest that, during the financial economic crisis, an appropriate tax policy response is ensured and, on the other hand, the view is that conditions based on Article 155 of the Constitution are not met. In this case, of course, the decision in our parliamentary group will be very difficult. We want to help with relief, we want this assistance to be even greater, given to other legal persons, as well as to others, and, on the other hand, only a few legal provisions based also on a constitution that we would like to make sure that, for example, when we support this law’s objective in a well-meaning way, we are in breach of the Constitution or constitutionally determine or fail to comply with any of the constitutional provisions. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, let me say that five members will decide in their conscience and at their discretion whether the desire to benefit and help legal persons will prevail, or whether they will prevail in the opinion that there is a legal, constitutional issue. I can't make a decision right now. I understand the will and desire of this government, and it is really difficult to work in such a way that in 10 minutes we are already spending more than half the savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Greetings to the Minister and Secretary of State. To tie up, it's true in life that if half of it is wasted, half is still left. However, if that half of what remains is used to make legal persons and entrepreneurs who are working hard and living in times of crisis, it helps in any way a good, necessary law to which we will devote all our support to the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared a supplement to the Law on corporate income tax, since in these times of crisis it expands the possibility of taking into account the recognised interest rate in determining the tax base, allowing more favourable tax treatment for taxpayers; and this is assessed as good and positive. The existing law provides that for loans that have been leased before 1. 1. In 2007, a special scheme is in place which does not allow a recognised interest rate to be fixed by demonstrating the market interest rate, which means that some debtors are in a worse position if long-term loans were leased before that date. In accordance with the purpose of the law, where the Government states that the proposed measures will provide for easier and uniform conditions for the management and fulfilment of the tax liability, the proposal provides for a solution whereby the debtors, under the proposed loan law, will be concluded before the date of application, before 1. 1. 2007 can apply Article 19 of the Law and the solution is designed to supplement the transitional provision in force so that the transitional solution in force can be made more favourable. Since the amendment of the law provides for a more favourable tax treatment of the debtors, this means that the State will knowingly cancel a certain part of the public financial revenue. The government has analysed the matter correctly and has also assessed and also estimated that there is about €4.5 million in such a drop. In spite of the reduced inflow to the budget in the LDS, we believe that it is appropriate that part of the economy be so burdened and, on the other hand, the budget will not be so significantly reduced for revenue, as we estimate that the effects of money not collected by the State will be used in the economy for such purposes as to multiply this money and ultimately we will have more of it through favourable effects for entrepreneurs and legal persons than all taxpayers and taxpayers, who in any way participate in the state budget. Of course, from the point of view of law, there is a disputed interference with the provisions on the back, because this undoubtedly means a retroactive effect, but if we listen in detail to the explanation of the proposal for a law, the proposal for a law extends the rights. This is said to be more favourable to the one to whom this law is intended than the solution that was put in place earlier, while also demonstrating a public interest in the wider social interest, in order to ensure, during the financial and economic crisis, an appropriate tax policy response in the parts of the economy most affected by the crisis. Therefore, despite the concerns expressed in the Legislative and Legal Service's opinion on non-compliance with the criteria of public benefit in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that the tightening of the financial and economic crisis in terms of public interest is justified by the reason that it goes retroactively and implements the measures that I have already told you in explanation. However, we are firmly in the position of the Liberal Democracy Club that such an exceptional measure should not become a permanent practice. Let me get this straight. In view of the positive consequences of the law in these acute times of crisis, the proposal for a law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, despite some serious concerns, has all the support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Second defense of the bill on alternative dispute resolution, under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Aleš Zalar, Minister of Justice, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u130	Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament. You have before you the Law on Alternative Dispute Resolution, a new law that represents a major change in our judiciary and also in the concept of dispute resolution. The main objectives of this law are to improve access, to natural and legal persons in all types of disputes to adequate legal protection, to an appropriate way of resolving their disputes, conflicts of interest or problems if you wish. These procedures, provided for by law, are aimed at a just, swift and, where possible, negotiated settlement of disputes, while at the same time, especially at the time of the financial crisis, creating significant time and financial savings for the parties in judicial proceedings and for the country itself. This is a goal aimed at improving voluntary enforcement of what the parties to the dispute agree on, i.e. judicial or extrajudicial settlement. Above all, this law ensures that justice is not the only way to resolve the dispute, but it establishes a new approach: it is that justice is the last chance to resolve the dispute. This is important because in Slovenia the number of cases received in court has been increasing for decades. Even in the last nine months of this year, the scope of the new cases in the courts has increased. And if this trend continues, the efficiency of the judicial system will be difficult to follow. He's in control right now, but we need to find him. And countries, not just Slovenia, are looking for other ways, but they are no less valuable than the path of justice. Even more. They bring some advantages, bring advantages in the speed of proceedings, in that they are significantly cheaper than expensive court proceedings. And perhaps most importantly, they bring more responsibility to people and businesses to solve their problems. But in exchange for taking on more responsibility to solve these problems, they are given complete control over the solution. They cannot be surprised by the outcome of a procedure. They can't have a so-called ambush trial. These are the recognized comparative advantages of this law. I'll give you a brief summary. This law imposes on courts, first-degree and second-degree courts to offer the parties in particular mediation. However, other alternative procedures may also be available. The courts will do so in all disputes: economic, labour, family and other civil law relations relating to requests that may be freely available to the parties. The courts will organise this as their own activity. However, they will be able to conclude appropriate contracts with external contractors. Here the law leaves the decisions of the courts to themselves. However, practice has shown that the Slovenian model of mediation, when the courts offer mediation as a hair activity, is very successful, very well accepted by the parties and their lawyers primarily because it ensures a high level of confidence in the quality of these programmes. This quality is also controlled by the courts. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] These programmes will be provided in the Court's budget and will also be supported by the relevant procedural provisions provided by this Act. [[...]] The law also provides some incentives, including an information claim, where the parties, through the assistance of the judge, can determine whether the dispute is suitable for an alternative procedure and will give their consent. The law also brings some so-called [[...]] [[a sign for the end of the debate.]] sanctions and, in our view, this is an important contribution to the better functioning of our judiciary. [[..]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Vice-President Anton Kolaric to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues, colleagues! At its 10th meeting, on 29 October 2009, the Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee considered the draft law on alternative dispute resolution submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation and the opinion of the Council of Justice. Mr Aleš Zalar, the representative of the motioner at the meeting, was the Minister of Justice, who also presented the law today, so that his explanations do not need to be repeated. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, had a wide range of comments on the law, but the Legislative and Legal Service found that the amendments tabled by the Coalition Group of Members took into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and would thus be complementary and appropriate for all further procedures. They also had comments as the Legislative and Legal Service that it might be more appropriate to include the procedural provisions of the bill in the Judicial Procedure Act, but the Minister felt that they would examine it, but that the proposed law also contained in particular substantive provisions which did not fall within the Judicial Procedure Act. The Council of State agreed with the bill and supported it. In the debate on the committee, the opposition objected to the law, but in the end amendments were passed by SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. However, we did not vote on the amendments of the SDS Group because the amendments adopted by the coalition parties were irrelevant. The Committee then voted together in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure on all articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the supplementary proposal of the law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure. The amended draft law is also an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u134	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group of Members, I can say that the applicant states that this is a novelty in our legal order. It further states that it is intended to improve access to the legal protection of the parties. In the opening arguments, there are quite a lot of interesting explanations. I was reminded of the Police Act, where we also saw something completely different in the opening arguments, which is in reality. The main novelty in this law is alone: it is mediation. But mediation as coerced in a court of law. I stress, therefore, the main novelty is mediation, but as coerced in court proceedings. It is in some ways a copy of one fairly revolutionary decree, called the Interim Order of National Courts and National Judges of 1944. Article 12 of this Decree provided for a compulsory settlement. It's all about the same thing. What seems particularly controversial to the Group in this law is that these alternative procedures, i.e. mediation, are mandatory in this particular case. They would have no objection if these procedures were possible, recommended, available, etc., but not mandatory. From international comparisons: England, Walles, Croatia, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, the United States of America, which are in the works, you can understand that everywhere the text is "may". It means that such procedures are possible. We haven't noticed anywhere that these procedures would be mandatory. Otherwise, I also have to argue a little with those arguments in the introduction that this is a novelty in our legal order, etc. It won't hold. As of today, all parties can conclude an out-of-court settlement anywhere and at any time. Another time. The Law on Judicial Procedure, as corrected or adopted in the previous term, provides in Article 305.a for a compulsory settlement claim at the first main hearing. In the event of an action brought, of course. This is also pointed out by the Law-Legal Service. The Arbitration Act, the Law on Mediation in Civil and Economic Disputes - at any time allow an alternative out-of-court solution to the case. This means that it is not a unique invention in Slovenia or anything like that. The introduction of the law states that this is not a case. The following applies all the rules and consequences resulting, say, from the absence of a claim. So what's this all about? For trial or not?Oh, my God! According to our estimate, yes. We have tabled quite a few amendments, but all amendments actually refer only to forced mediation. This is how we count, and in this we follow the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and count on support. Why are we actually against mandatory mediation? Simply because there will be every trial, I stress - any trial that can be initiated immediately if there is no backlog will be withdrawn in 3 months. Mediation is mandatory. So each trial will be at least three months longer than it is today. The proceedings will therefore be prolonged. We do know, however, that taxpayers are already paying enormous amounts for the trial in so - called unreasonable terms. That means it's expected to be an extension. In the parliamentary group, we will finally take a decision on support or non-support for this law after the vote on the amendments, because we are confident that it would be an indication to follow both the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, in part as well as the opinion of the parliamentary group and to make these procedures possible, recommended or whatever you wish, but not as mandatory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Tadej Slapnik has the word on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u136	Mr President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the last decade, the practice of non-judicial or out-of-court dispute resolution, the so-called alternative dispute resolution procedures, has become increasingly widespread. In the Group of Members, we really believe that to date, alternative dispute resolution procedures should also be systematically upgraded, extended and encouraged. Alternative procedures for out-of-court resolution are, in certain respects, significantly more useful because they are rather informal, flexible and, as such, much more acceptable to the parties to the dispute. Especially when compared with formal and long-term judicial proceedings. Alternative dispute resolution procedures are also much faster and cheaper for the country in most cases. Therefore, it is appropriate to stand up for them and to regulate them systematically. After nine years of experience with optional mediation in selected courts in Slovenia, it is right to provide this possibility to all parties in judicial proceedings by adopting an alternative dispute resolution law, of course if they so wish. Alternative procedures themselves are not mandatory, as any party may refuse them at any time in the proceedings. By adopting the law, it will become the duty of all first and second-degree courts to apply these procedures. The possibility of using alternative procedures will therefore no longer depend on whether the individual court will decide to offer such services as has been the case before. The proposed law states that it is expected that the parties and their lawyers will serve these procedures to a much greater extent before filing any action at all. Will that be true, the practice will show. In the Group of Members, we add this expectation to the call for the proposer to give due attention to informing citizens and citizens of the advantages, purposes, conditions and also the real weaknesses that this alternative dispute resolution procedure entails as part of the Ministry's powers. Citizens and citizens usually face very few court proceedings and are often left to their personal behaviour and knowledge of their rights and duties because of their lack of legal knowledge. In cases where they can afford or are assigned a lawyer, the advice and guidance of lawyers who are not always targeted in the direction of swift and effective resolution of legal disputes. In the Parliamentary Group, indeed, we draw attention to the provision of a law which, in order to encourage decisions to be taken to apply alternative methods of dispute resolution, provides for a cost penalty in the event of a manifestly unreasonable refusal of referral to mediation. In this case, the party risks that its fair costs or part of such fair costs and expenses of the counterparty should be borne by that party which rejected the referral, irrespective of what the final outcome of the justice would be. To what extent the possibility of a cost penalty in reality will affect the decisions of the parties as an incentive or as an inducement, judicial practice will also show. We therefore expect the Ministry, after the transitional period of the introduction of the law, to also examine the effects of the adoption of the law thoroughly and, if necessary, take action. We will really support the bill in the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Anton Urh has the word on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u138	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will present the position of the Law on Alternative Dispute Resolution, and this is the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. The drafting and adoption of a law regulating the area of alternative dispute resolution has been discussed for many years, but there has been no specific text that would be appropriate for the submission of a legislative procedure. As DeSUS Members estimate that this area needs to be regulated by law, we are pleased to have before us today a proposal for an alternative dispute resolution law that, according to our assessment, is properly and comprehensively regulating this area. While existing legislation is now on the path to alternative dispute resolution in some laws, we do not have this area systematically regulated in an act other than in some EU Member States. The fact is more than obvious to us that courts of dispute may no longer be able to resolve matters within a reasonable period of time. Conflicts are also becoming more difficult and more complex in their content. Therefore, one of the objectives of the proposal is to establish a system of mechanisms that will reduce judicial backlogs and burden the courts. The final purpose of these new forms of mediation of alternative dispute resolution is to reach a negotiated solution to the dispute between the parties - if possible before the start of the dispute. Members of the DeSUS, on reading this text, have found that the latter is an even more important objective, namely to strengthen awareness in the parties to judicial proceedings, that the peaceful resolution of disputes is an important value. A negotiated settlement of disputes is certainly a better solution for both parties, as it also affects the relationship between the parties in the long term. Of course, the organisation of these forms of settlement also involves a number of logistical problems, from the question of how to persuade people to use them to choose and also the specific skills of neutral persons involved in the settlement of the dispute. In addition to legal knowledge, the latter need knowledge of human nature and the ability to build trust in their clients. Members of the DeSUS are of the opinion that such a complementary text of the bill, which we now have before us, is appropriately formulated on the basis of expert opinions and on the basis of practical experience and knowledge of the actual situation in our country. This proposal for an alternative dispute resolution law will therefore also be supported. In the end, however, let us note that only the legal regulation of this area, which is necessary, is by no means sufficient, since, after all, it will make sure that all those involved in these procedures are fully aware of success.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word is given by Guido Kres on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Recently in Slovenia there has been a lot of talk about arbitration, about an out-of-court body or procedure to resolve the border issue between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. Arbitration is one of the alternative means of resolving disputes which we support in principle in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We believe that alternative procedures can at the same time relieve the courts and lead to a quicker settlement of a dispute. It is therefore a matter of satisfaction on the part of the judicial system and on the part of the parties to the proceedings, which in the same way, through the intervention of experts, agree on a solution to the dispute. While it is true that we already have the law on mediation and the law on arbitration, so far it has not been the duty of the courts to offer parties to the proceedings an alternative way of resolving the dispute. In our view, when this duty is imposed on all, first and second-degree courts, access to adequate legal protection will in particular improve and reduce the time and cost aspect of procedures. We also support the aspirations for alternative dispute resolution in a single law. We also agree that the procedural provisions should be regulated in the law on fair procedure, in accordance with the Government's motion for a resolution on normative activities to be considered at this meeting. We therefore expect the proposers to arrange this in due course. What bothers us in this proposal is the fact that the voluntary decision of the parties on alternative resolution of the dispute in some way turns it into a mandatory one. The dispute over such an arrangement has also been pointed out by the Council of Justice, and I must admit that we agree with these warnings in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. We cannot talk about free choice of parties if, in the background, there is a financial penalty for those who object or do not participate in alternative dispute resolution procedures. While the representative of the proposer points out that such arrangements also exist in some other countries and that this sanction in practice is more than a serious risk and rarely would have been realized. It is also said that the court will not rule on the basis of discretionary rights on what is unreasonable refusal to refer to mediation, but that the law clearly sets out the circumstances which would suggest an unreasonable rejection. It is therefore best to look at the article in which it is defined, on the basis of which circumstances the unreasonableness of rejection is assessed. These circumstances are: the nature of the dispute, the decisive facts in the dispute, the fact that the parties had previously tried to resolve the dispute peacefully by negotiation, the amount of costs incurred in the mediation, the likelihood that a three-month suspension of the mediation procedure could affect the outcome of justice and the likelihood that mediation could successfully end the dispute. The clarity of the provisions and the necessity or admissibility of the so-called cost penalty should be assessed by each person. We have already considered the facts in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! There has been a lot of talk in recent years about the overcrowding of judges and a number of unsolved writings that have burdened both judges and citizens, and indirectly the legislative branch of the authorities, which has put great effort on the table, the energy to solve the problem, which has also emptied the state budget, has gone to the judges on days and nights and has given the citizens headaches. We are finally faced with a proposal for a law that will simplify and burden both courts and citizens in certain segments. The Constitution has already guaranteed in Article 23 the right to judicial protection for everyone. However, judicial protection is not the only option to resolve judicial disputes, as for the past few years the possibility of an out-of-court settlement of disputes with alternative dispute resolution has been used, but there are several advantages for parties in proceedings, as the procedures are faster and cheaper and the courts are burdened, as I have already said in the introduction. From now on, the law will impose upon the courts the duty to promote or offer alternative dispute resolution procedures. While these court proceedings are not new in current practice, such practice has been attempted since 2001 mainly through mediation, which some courts have not carried out. This will change significantly after the adoption of this law. The law will allow the parties in the proceedings to come up with an alternative solution if they so wish. The law obliges both first-stage and second-degree courts to comply with legislation that will be written down and thus provide for a wider choice to achieve the objectives of this law, as it is based on the regulation of proceedings before a court in civil disputes. The proposal of the law relies on the voluntary mediation, which is also linked to costs in the event of opposition to the referral irrespective of the success of the dispute. In some ways, the parties shall be forced to participate in the mediation by drawing their attention to the costs in the event of rejection. This does not seem to be the best place for us, so it would suggest that this part of the proposal should be corrected. Otherwise, we believe in the Slovenian National Party that the proposal is good and we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues welcome! For a long time, the resolution of disputes is no longer the only way to resolve disputes. Also in Slovenia, procedures are being developed in practice, which are referred to as alternative dispute resolution by a common name. That is why we will also support the proposed law in the Liberal Democrats' Club, as it is a brand new law on alternative dispute resolution. The reasons for the implementation of alternative dispute resolution are: the speed and price advantage of procedures, confidentiality and informal procedures, the greater role of the parties in the formulation of a solution, the achievement of solutions that are more acceptable to the parties and that resolve disputes between them more effectively, and in particular more lastingly than judicial decisions. Alternative dispute resolution procedures may relieve the courts or have a favourable effect on the resolution of judicial arrears, which often defile the lives of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and other participants in judicial disputes. There is currently no law in the Slovenian legal order imposing on the courts the obligation to offer alternative dispute resolution to the parties in judicial proceedings. The proposed law allows the parties in judicial proceedings to resolve the matter in the context of alternative dispute resolution. The parties themselves will be able to choose the dispute resolution process and thus have access to legal protection that suits them better. Parties and courts will be provided with time and financial savings as an alternative means of resolving disputes allows for a fair, swift and, where possible, negotiated settlement of disputes. Such dispute resolution will also increase the scope of voluntary enforcement of court and out-of-court settlement and arbitration decisions issued. Due to the above claims, we will also support the law at the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The word is given by Dara Lavtijar Bebler, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! In Slovenia, we have seen the number of disputes increase for many years, which on the other hand means that the number of pending cases is also increasing. Both bad legislation and people’s conduct have contributed to this. It is therefore right that this proposal for an alternative dispute resolution law is before us today, and it is right for the legislator to strive to draw up such legal bases that can significantly eliminate the number of pending judicial disputes and also reduce the trial time. This, however, must also be provided by the State with its mechanisms. One possible solution is to pay more attention to alternative dispute resolution procedures. That is why, as it is said, this proposal for a law is before us today. The awareness of the importance of alternative dispute resolution in Europe has been growing in recent times. The Council of Europe has also been preparing and recommending various alternative proposals within expert groups for a number of years. Slovenia also joins the European Union or the Member States which define alternative dispute resolution procedures as one of their political priorities. We have also committed ourselves in the coalition to develop effective forms of alternative dispute resolution and to try to put in place the concept of dispute resolution, so that the judicial justification will be the last option to resolve the dispute. The aim of these solutions is to relieve the judiciary and to develop the awareness of citizens and citizens that disputes can be resolved qualitatively and in the satisfaction of both parties outside the courtrooms. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware that people's consciousness cannot be changed overnight, but we expect this form to take effect in practice. The parties will have the opportunity to choose the appropriate dispute resolution procedure, which will enable a fair, quick and negotiated solution, thereby ensuring both time and financial savings to the parties and to the courts. Of course, legal protection before the court remains in the event that an alternative settlement of the dispute results. This is guaranteed by our constitutional arrangements. The courts will be burdened with less complex cases and will be able to address more difficult litigation, including those of the most difficult economic and civil cases, which are also of wider social interest, in order to end quickly and effectively. Social Democrats will support the proposal for an alternative dispute resolution law, but we will also closely monitor how preparations are being made for the implementation of the law and later also examine the effects of the proposed law. We are aware that a number of measures will have to be taken to effectively implement this law, to educate mediators and judges and to prepare appropriate programmes. That this is a demanding project, the Government or the competent minister, who is already associated with experts from the United States, is also aware. In the United States of America, since 1990, they have systematically offered alternative ways to resolve disputes, so the experience and assistance of American experts will be welcome and useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 16.11.2009. I first put to the debate Article 6b and the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Is there any desire to discuss it? Dr. Gorenak. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I don't understand this amendment, which has no explanation, at least I didn't get it, why would you delete the condition that this person did education. With the amendment tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, we delete the text of the condition that he has completed education for the mediator under a programme determined by the Minister or Minister of Justice. The condition of his education, I think he should stay. I'm just asking for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u149	Thank you. If anyone in the coalition wants to answer that question, they can. Otherwise, there is no longer a desire to discuss the amendment to Article 6b. The amendment must have had an explanation because he had to have it because it was filed. However, there is generally no explanation in the review of the amendments. However, there must be an explanation in the basic text you have received. However, I see that there is no longer a desire to discuss the amendment to Article 6b, so I conclude this debate. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 11. However, as the amendments of the SDS Group to Article 11 and to Article 11 are linked, I am therefore putting into discussion Article 11 and the amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and Article 11 and the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? This is an amendment to Article 11 and to Article 11. The debate shall be held together. Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Anybody else want some? First Dr. Vinko Gorenak, followed by Minister Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The address already, clearly, is that we are trying with the amendment to correct the introduction of a word that actually judges in and means opportunities. Maybe I kept it here a little longer. Certainly, once again, we argue that it is not good to introduce forced mediation. No one knows forced mediation. From the explanations you have prepared by the Government, from the international review accompanying you, you will find everywhere "can offer, can pass" and so on. But we do have a referral. It means there's nothing else the court can do about it. It means persons, or two parties, who are before the trial, on the way. It means he has to send them. That's why we think it's a good idea to give a possible referral. That's one. Even for the editorial correction in point 1, in the parliamentary group, we believe that this would be a good solution. And in the second paragraph, the time that the party agrees on the proposal to make an alternative dispute resolution attempt may be terminated at any time and so on. This time shouldn't be more than a month. I think you can see at that time whether success is possible or not. Of course, in general, when we talk about this amendment, our strongest concern is this. This is just as it is with married couples who are separated, so let’s make sure that they talk to each other. Many who divorce speak for themselves, and the court has nothing to do with them. Those who cannot and no mediation procedure will be successful for them, but will have to be tried by a court of law. I spoke comparatively, so we don't think it's good that this is an obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Minister Zalar also spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I think it is necessary to clarify some of the misunderstandings presented here by the SDS representatives on the obligation to mediate. Mediation won't be mandatory. It also remains voluntary by this law. It's not even true that mediation isn't mandatory anywhere. Some countries know mandatory mediation, even Germany knows mandatory mediation in certain countries. Once again, Slovenia has not decided on compulsory mediation, but it could. Among other things, the second paragraph of the Directive adopted during the Slovenian Presidency could be the Directive on certain aspects of mediation in civil and commercial matters, on the basis of the mandate given by Article 5. He says: "This Directive is without prejudice to national law under which mediation is mandatory before or after the initiation of a judicial procedure. It then continues: or related to incentives or sanctions provided that such legislation does not prevent parties from exercising their right of access to the judicial system. [[...]] It is clear from this that this is a European standard that is broad enough for EU Member States to leave which models will be chosen. We could opt for mediation as a procedural assumption, so that the party can't even file an action before it tries to mediate. That's not what we decided. We could opt for compulsory mediation within the judicial procedure. We haven't decided on that either. We have maintained the principle of volunteering for the parties. At the same time, we have upgraded the existing model of mediation with some incentives and also with some sanctions. And both provide for a directive as an option. Speaking of incentives, the most recent incentive with this law is that the court is given a special mandate to invite parties on an informational request. What does that mean? The Court will discuss freely with the parties whether this particular dispute is appropriate for it to be submitted to mediation while at the same time verifying the willingness of the parties to do so. The fact that the parties will have the opportunity to discuss with the judge whether it would suggest an attempt to resolve the dispute in an agreed manner is the added value of this law. And this is also provided for in the directive that I quoted earlier. In this part of this Directive, however, Slovenia has not yet implemented our national legislation, although it is not obliged. Not in this part. This is a so-called optional provision. However, we agreed because mediation in Slovenia has been so strongly present for the past nine years, because the legal profession now widely recognizes it that it is reasonable to put this additional incentive in place through this informative proposal. And only in this case, because it is also a free choice of a judge to decide whether or not to sign this informational claim. If he decides to do so, then the parties must come to this request. And here the same rules apply as for all other claims in judicial proceedings: settlement claims or main proceedings orders. The party has to come. If he does not come and if he does not apologize for his absence, he shall be subject to a cost penalty. In this case, the sanction to pay the costs to the counterparty who solicited did not occur. And keep going. Once this information notice is carried out, the judge shall have the opportunity to reconsider whether or not he will refer the parties to mediation. He doesn't have to do that. It's not necessary at all. He won't make that decision until he hears both sides. In most cases, the willingness of the parties to communicate, to compromise, to seek a compromise solution will be the element that will be the basis for the judge's assessment of whether or not it makes sense for the party to refer to mediation. Let's say that the judge will refer the client to mediation, it will still not be mandatory, because the parties will have eight days to consider whether or not they accept this referral. If it is not, they will inform the court that they do not accept it, and the court will have to annul this decision automatically. Mediation is therefore not compulsory under any circumstances. Even less so, it would be mandatory for the parties to make judicial decisions. This, of course, is at odds with our Constitution. That's not what this marriage is about. No one is obliged to conclude a judicial settlement. Even if he goes to the mediation, he can get out of it at any time. It's a free choice of customers. Therefore, this constitutional right of everyone to seek judicial protection has been preserved. It's completely preserved. If someone doesn't want to go to the mediation or in the middle of mediation, he can decide to go back to justice. The only thing threatening him in this regard is the so-called "smart sanction" in relation to costs. And this is that article which was previously quoted by the esteemed Member of the Slovenian People's Party, which speaks of criteria which the court will have to comply with in the event of any decision to impose such a cost sanction. I must say that these criteria are written in the law on the basis of a large-scale case-law in those countries that already know and implement this sanction. Here we have carefully considered these situations which could be taken into account in order for the court to assess that the party is clearly unreasonable in rejecting the possibility of at least trying to reach a settlement, and it is absolutely not necessary to do so, i.e. to conclude a settlement, but at least to try the procedure. You see, there's a big difference between trying a procedure or giving in. I therefore reiterate that this proposed amendment is unnecessary. When it comes to the word "may" this is anyway included in the current text, because the judge will offer the mediation at all times, unless he assesses that this would not be appropriate in a particular case. As you can see, then, the judge has complete discretion to assess whether or not he will do so in each individual case. It's a matter of discretion, and the word "may" is in the right one, which means discretion. So it's included in this text. This amendment is therefore unnecessary in our view. It is also unnecessary because it significantly reduces the time when mediation is supposed to last. Experience, and this supported by extensive analyses, in Slovenia over the last eight years shows that the average mediation process has been completed on one or two occasions and that, therefore, a period of three months is appropriate when the parties are allowed to so-called 'cooling' from justice, from, I will say, wars in conflict and at the same time finding a solution to the dispute. And this is not a novelty at all, for in this part we have literally copied what is already in force in the Law of Justice. This law provides for exactly that - a three-month suspension of proceedings in the event that the parties decide on any alternative procedure. It was a matter of complete nonconsistency if this period were to be reduced, but at the same time it would seriously affect the chances of the parties reaching compromise, because it is not easy to compromise. This also requires a certain reflection, which requires specific negotiations and takes time. However, this three-month period will in no way threaten Slovenia and the Slovenian budget with regard to possible damages due to too long a trial. Why not? Because this three-month period is strictly linked to the consent of the parties. If the parties agree to this interruption, of course, it is not the State which is responsible for the interruption. Thus, this argument is completely inadequate and therefore we do not support the amendment at the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak volunteered for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Of course, this is not such a big topic as what are the salaries or the legal tariffs and so on, that, Minister, we would especially argue. But you need to be more clear. You claim that mediation is not compulsory. You know, it's about as if the faculty in their programs said: visiting lectures is not compulsory. The lecturer then says: If you are not present at all lectures, you do not have the conditions for access to the exam. That's what it looks like. See Article 4: District, district, labour, higher and higher working courts, social, in Ljubljana, thus allowing the parties to use alternative dispute resolution and so on. So, they let them. Okay. Okay. But see below: "In the framework of the programme referred to in the previous paragraph, the courts shall make it compulsory for the parties to use mediation" and so on. So, it's a mandatory option. I can read all the articles below, because that's what makes us clear. But the whole point of the law is, up to all those mandatory provisions that force mediation, punishment and so on, threats and so on, the parties will be forced to do so. I'm not saying that you wrote "mediation is mandatory." That's not what I'm saying. But the connotation of the whole marriage is such that it will definitely happen. And one more thing. You say, Germany. Yeah, hell, now one of us can't read or write. Well, now I don't know who. You say, "It's mandatory in Germany." However, at the same time, your employees wrote that the German law stipulates that the court must make every effort throughout the proceedings to resolve the dispute or at least one of the issues at issue in a calm manner. The parties may, with their consent, refer to a peaceful settlement procedure and so on. It reminds me a little of the explanation when we discussed the Police Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u155	Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, Minister Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u156	Only one explanation in relation to this latter. I said, up to some German federal lands. You quoted the Civil Process of Ordnung. Here we have to be precise here. There are some other countries, such as Malta, which has compulsory mediation in family disputes, some federal states have mandatory mediation in the United States and so on. When we talk about mandatory, see if the title of this article quoted in Article 4 tells us all: the duties and entitlements of the courts, not of the parties. The courts have a duty, the courts are the ones that must make it mandatory for the parties to have access to mediation. This is not the same as the duty of people to participate in mediation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Let's move on. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 12a and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Mr. Gorenak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Here we would like it not to be the same as the bankruptcy managers, to write a little bit more accurately: "to recover reasonable costs". This seems quite logical to me, so to speak, that we will not later have such a situation, that it will not be clear what these costs are. But if someone found a better word or a better term than these reasonable costs would be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u160	I can only commit here to determine the reasonable amount of these costs in the rules that I will issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and move on to Article 13 as well as the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Nobody wants to debate, I find, so I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Nobody wants to discuss it either. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. I'm closing the debate on the amendments. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda or at the latest this and this time. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE LAW. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Minister Aleš Zalar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u162	Your Honor! You have before you an important novelty of the Law on Courts, which brings quite some news. It is clear that the aim of this novel is to enable our courts to exercise judicial protection even faster and even more qualitatively. The Novela deals with some important issues such as the powers of the Judicial Council and extends them to a certain extent, and in particular strengthens the responsibility of the Judicial Council to identify and analyse the effectiveness of the work of all courts. A very important innovation is linked to the capacity of the judicial system in Slovenia to address the most demanding forms of economic and organised crime. To this end, the law provides even a chapter that allows the establishment of a special specialized section in the District Court in Ljubljana to judge in these most demanding demands of economic and organised crime. In addition, the law brings the concentration of the administration and administration of the courts to the level of the courts and the delegation of those powers of the Presidents of the courts, which do not constitute a function of the court, but constitute a classic administrative decision to the directors of the courts. Finally, the law also provides a closer link between court budgetary financing and the productivity of the courts. These changes are extensive, covering everything from, say, a new way of appointing the Presidents of the Courts, which, under the proposal of the law, would be appointed by the Judicial Council, but also a new one, not only a procedure for the discharge of the Presidents of the Courts, but in particular the conditions for this. The law brings an important change: the President of the Court will be able to be resolved if the court running it has not achieved the business results in two consecutive years, as this court has itself planned. We believe that this greatly strengthens the responsibility of the Supreme Judicial Branch for the results of the judiciary. An important novelty will be the criteria, the quality of the work of the courts and the quality criteria of the work of the judges to be adopted by the Council of Justice, and the functioning of the Council of Justice will be more transparent in particular because it will allow for access to reasoned decisions of the Council of Justice. The concentration of the management and administration of the courts at the level of the district courts is essential. Slovenia has an extremely large number of small district courts operating in judicial districts and it is irrational to employ people on their own and carry out cases such as personnel, financial, spatial, security and others. At the same time, there is no reason for a division between professional and administrative heads in a court of law, where classical administrative tasks are entrusted to specially qualified directors, and the Presidents of the courts have much more time to deal with the work of judges, to motivate judges, to encourage better work, to measure the quality of the work of judges, to control the work of judges, to oversee the work of judges, to provide official supervision and so on. The Presidents of the Courts will have to produce special reports on the work. These reports will be structured, they will be unified and, above all, they will have to plan their work programmes, and this is one of the important innovations. At the same time, we are also setting up a special budget committee of the judiciary in charge of establishing financial plans for the courts [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Way to go. [[...]] And finally, a specialized department that I've already mentioned. This is where the most competent criminal judges will work from all levels of court, from county to state. We can look forward to significant changes in this area. The public rightly expects this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Vinko Gorenak to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice is at its 10th session. Ten. 2009 dealt with the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts. The bill was tabled by the Government. Members and members of the committee had a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Council of Justice, an opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation and an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups of 23 were tabled for consideration on the home labour body. Ten. 2009 and correction of the amendments to Articles 12 and 36 of these Groups of Members to Articles 29. Ten. 2009 The amendments of the SDS Group of Members were also tabled on 23. Ten. 2009 The representative of the motioner, the Minister of Justice, said roughly what we had heard from the explanation he had just given, so allow me to proceed. Mrs Natasa Voršič, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, said that the Legislative and Legal Service had added a comprehensive written opinion to the bill and that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups had almost fully been taken into account. In addition, it presented those comments which were not taken into account. These were two comments on Articles 2 and 6. It stressed that the comments had not been taken into account. It also had additional comments on Articles 12 and 20. A written opinion was delivered to the Committee and the Commission of the State Council for State Regulations, which supports the proposal for a law. The Committee also took note of the written opinion of the Council of Justice presented at the meeting of the Committee by President Branko Marlesha The Council of Justice met with the Ministry of Justice at a coordination meeting at which, as he said, they had different views on the regulation of certain issues, with some positions being brought together or unified. However, in some of the solutions proposed, the Council of Justice insists on its concerns and observations. From the written opinion of 18 July 2016, 9. 2009, in particular with regard to the appointment of Presidents or Directors of Courts and the establishment of a special panel of Judges for trial in more complex cases of organised economic crime. The members and members of the Committee have devoted the most discussions to the Director of the Court. This was also a central debate, which was supported by the coalition members, and we opposed the opposition's solution. Following the debate, the Committee adopted a decision: the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice recommends that the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of Justice provide adequate human resources support for the implementation of the new powers of the Council of Justice in the framework of the proposal for a common criminal justice plan. The Committee recommends that the Ministry of Justice provide the Council of Justice with adequate facilities in order to increase the level of expertise of the Council of Justice. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, the Committee adopted the following amendment, its amendment to the amendment of SD, Zares and DeSUS to Article 44. The Committee also adopted amendments to the coalition groups by 2, 3, 6, 7, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 20, 28, 31, 35, 36, 39, 40, 42 and 44. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 6 and 11 and the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 12, 21, 22, 23, 25, 36 and 42 became irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the law together. Thus, the text is also an annex to this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In presenting this novel, the Minister also mentioned the expectations of the public. And the expectation of the public is great, as far as the effectiveness of the judiciary is concerned, and it is justified to do so also in the light of the penalties paid by Slovenia, due to the long trials and other warnings coming from Europe. Therefore, before us, this novelty on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, which brings some important innovations with a view to increasing efficiency, the debate will probably show that our opinions in this solution are different, although the desire for a more effective third branch of power is the same for all of us. However, as already mentioned, the role of the Council of Justice, which adds new powers to the appointment and discharge of the Presidents of the Courts, which has so far been the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, has been strengthened. The Council of Justice will also decide, in addition to the powers already given, on complaints concerning the classification of judges and presidents of the courts in the pay grade, which are also a hot topic in recent months. The new competence of the Council of Justice will also be to monitor, identify and analyse the work of the courts. The Council of Justice will thus prepare and adopt each year an annual report on the effectiveness and effectiveness of the courts on the basis of the annual reports on the conduct of the courts to be forwarded by individual courts. Furthermore, the criteria for the calculation of the required number of judicial posts for an individual court to be determined by the Minister of Justice are changing. By taking into account the performance criteria and past or expected to apply, it takes into account the different parameters such as the average performance of judges by type of case, the average case-by-case case-by-case case and the expected case-by-case case-by-case case-by-case case-by-case case-by-case case-by-case. One of the most important innovations is the establishment of a specialized department to try more complex cases of organised and economic crime. The trial in these cases will be possible only if it is carried out by judges with special competence and experience. This specialized department is so open to judges of all degrees, including supreme. However, the appointment of a judge will be decided by the Council of Justice. The novelty is also an annual report on the operation of the court, which will include information on the work of the judges and an assessment of the achievement of the objectives set out in the business plan at the level of the court or judicial departments. In particular, it is an analysis of the state of efficiency and effectiveness of the court in more important and other matters. We are reopening the post of Director of the Court, who will replace the current Registrar of the Court and carry out typical administrative matters which do not need to be carried out by the Presidents of the Courts and which are known that the Presidents of the Court have not been particularly qualified for them so far. This opens the way for hiring people who are not necessarily lawyers, especially economists, who are also needed by the judiciary. There will probably be a different opinion in the debate, but we really think that the proposed changes are necessary, good and we will therefore support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u168	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group notes that the Law on Courts is being amended for a number of large-scale changes, which, according to our assessment, are essential for the achievement of the objectives set by the Ministry of Justice. These changes, which we support in our Group of Members, relate to the modernisation of the organisation itself, the management and administration of the courts. To reshape judicial regulations and to regulate the area of judicial experts as the most important change that has also received our support, we stress the establishment of a special specialised department for the prosecution of more complex criminal cases of organised and economic crime. The fact that it is time for accession to the last amendment is based on the fact that the violations in this area are on the rise. The statistics show that only in the first four months of this year were detected by criminals for 4% more economic crimes, and in these four months, the perpetrators caused as much as 132 million material damage. The number of complaints about corruption in four months, 24 of which were filed, has also increased dramatically since this number exceeds the total number of last year. There's been a lot of talk about economic crime, about tycoons lately. The arrests, which were spectacular, only remember the reverberating cases of Apek, Luca, Mobile, Istrabenz, Patrio. The question is whether these proceedings will also be concluded with a judicial epilogue. Many critical experts respond negatively. Not that the reason is merely in poorly prepared predictive procedures, in which few experts are involved, but they point out a lack of expertise, including in the courts and the State Prosecutor's Office. So if we set up and put the expert team on trial alone, in our view, this problem of economic crime will certainly not be eradicated or at least mitigated. This is an overly complex and complex problem, and the fact that it is extremely difficult in these cases to show direct slander in order to obtain illegal property benefits or to cause damage is also a matter of great difficulty. Members of the DeSUS recognise, however, that the amendment of this law has taken a step towards preventing, detecting and persecuting these more difficult crimes, so we will be happy to contribute our votes to the adoption of this law. Once again, we stress the need to approach change in other areas, particularly in terms of responsible, effective and professional work of the competent authorities, so that we can read different news and other statistics over time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The new Law on Courts promises a number of changes in the field of modernisation, organisation, administration and administration of courts, the transformation of judicial standards, the determination of the appropriate number of judges in a particular court and the organisation of a specialised department for more difficult forms of criminal offences in the field of organised and economic crime. As I said at the previous point, of course we support efforts to relieve, modernise and increase the autonomy of Slovenian courts, but again in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we find matters somewhat misplaced, incomplete. We agree with most of the warnings of the Council of Justice, which states that it is not only appropriate to extend its powers without a more specific regulation of the Council itself. If the Council of Justice itself expresses reservations about the extension of jurisdiction and responsibility, then I do not know how to impose some new tasks on it just past these warnings. When I quote the opinion of the Council of Justice: The Council of Justice, by means of its professional apparatus, is barely in control of the tasks arising from the current powers, and it does not show that it will have to adopt criteria for the quality of the work of judges, for the assessment of the judicial service and for the quality of the work of the courts, which is an extremely difficult and extremely sensitive rule which the Council has not yet been able to implement in its present compositions. In view of this situation, such an arrangement practically means that the Court of Justice could not actually exercise its powers of monitoring, identifying and analysing the effectiveness and effectiveness of the courts. Clearly, matters have not been predestined enough in the broad circle of those who are being repressed by law. We are also detained in the Slovenian People's Party's Group on various plans, work plans and performance analyses. It's all too much in our society. We believe that too many times these letters on paper actually remain only a letter on paper, everything remains on plans and good intentions, and the realization is too often nothing. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the organisation of a special specialised section for the trial in more difficult cases of economic and organised crime; not so much because it would be considered that only a few judges are capable of dealing with these matters, but because the problem is so acute that it is right for those most experienced and qualified to deal with it and only deal with it. Finally, let me just mention that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we agree that changes in the judiciary are absolutely necessary. We want a better, more efficient judiciary, but we cannot support unconscionable solutions that, in our view, will not yield the desired result. The fact that the President of the Court should bear greater responsibility for the work or the successful work of his own court will not be resolved by acting as the so-called Director of the Court, which also does not seem to us to be well-defined or somewhat deceptive with the President of the Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u172	Your Honors are here! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts introduces changes and updates in the field of organisation, management, management, determination of the number of judges in the courts, specialised departments also in the field of economic crime and in the field of judicial experts. As we can see, it is a comprehensive intervention into a law that will fill the gaps that have emerged in the present case law and have led to a clear amendment of the law. This novel strengthens the powers of the Council of Justice in the appointment and discharge of the Presidents of the Courts, and nothing will change in the area of the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court. The law follows the objective of effective court management and management, which, among other things, may result in the discharge of the President of the Court. The financial and human resources plans and the monitoring of implementation through the special budget committee of the judiciary are improving. This amendment strengthens the role of the Council of Justice and increases its responsibility to monitor the efficiency and efficiency of the courts, especially in the part where the courts themselves plan them. Management shall also be introduced in a court which shall ensure that the objectives set and the business objectives set are met. The current secretaries of the courts will be replaced by directors who will be given full powers and full responsibility. This novelty also opens up the possibility of a director's job as an economist, which has not been possible until now. The changes in the field lead to improvements in particular in smaller courts which have already had difficulties in carrying out these administrative functions. The President of the Court will also be burdened in the part that ties him to corruption and undermines the reputation of the courts and the judiciary as a whole. This is the case with the Court of Cyprus in one of the insolvent cases. The novelty also ensures better transparency and information on the performance and efficiency of operations, which will be monitored throughout the year, and the Council of Justice will also have to prepare a report to the National Assembly. With this novelty, the Ministry will establish a link between the results of the work of the courts and the budget and at the same time imposes an obligation to comply with the criteria for setting work programmes, which are important for the execution of individual procedural actions. The new law is well established, but it would suggest considering the correction in that part which speaks of the directors of the courts and the Secretary-General of the Supreme Court, which is included only in the decision on remuneration. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, as it brings quite a few changes and innovations for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted. We will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts in the Liberal Democrats Club of Slovenia as it brings the following necessary changes: modernisation of the organisation of the administration and administration of the courts, recast of judicial standards, determination of the appropriate number of judges in a particular court, organisation of a specialised department for more difficult forms of organised crime, and some amended regulations applicable to judicial experts. The most important changes are the extension of the powers of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia with a view to strengthening its role in the appointment and discharge of the Presidents of the Courts, the transfer of the powers of appointment of the Presidents of the Court of Justice, except for the President of the Supreme Court of Slovenia, to the Council of Justice and ensuring the transparency of the functioning of the Court of Justice, the establishment of a specialised section for the trial in more difficult cases of organised and economic crime, the concentration of management and management of the District Courts, and the transfer of powers that do not constitute the execution of a judicial service from the Presidents of the Court, the more efficient management of the Courts on the basis of annual planning and analysis of the results of the proceedings, the establishment of a budgetary committee of the judiciary as a body which will examine and coordinate the proposals for financial and human resources plans of the Courts. These changes are necessary in order to ensure greater efficiency in the work of the courts, and we will therefore support the proposal at the Liberal Democrats' Chamber, as I have already presented in the introduction.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kolarič, you have the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u176	Mr President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government and approved by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice at its meeting on 29 October this year. The bill introduces a number of amendments, in particular with regard to the modernisation of the organisation, the management and administration of courts, the recast of judicial standards, the determination of the appropriate number of judges in a particular court, the establishment of a specialised section for trial in more difficult cases and so on. The most important solutions, such as the extension of the powers of the Council in order to strengthen its role in the appointment and discharge of the President of the Courts, such as the establishment of a specialised section for the trial in more complex cases of organised economic crime, the concentration of management and management of the District Courts and the transfer of powers that do not constitute the execution of the Judicial Service, from the Presidents of the Courts to the Directors of the Courts, the more effective management of the Courts on the basis of the annual planning and analysis of the results of the proceedings, are, in our opinion, good and also represent a certain winding up of the Courts and the system. The support of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice is also very important because of the warnings expressed by the President of the Council that, due to the scope and complexity of the new tasks of the Council of Justice, it is essential to strengthen the professional services of the Council of Justice and, as I have already said, the Committee on Internal Policy also recommended to the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court and the Council of Justice that they provide adequate human resources support for the exercise of the new powers of the Council of Justice in the framework of the joint proposal of the Staff Plan of the Judiciary. In our view, it is also very important to introduce a new post of Director of the Court to replace the current Registrar of the Court, as there is a lack of adequate management in the Court of Justice, which will be able to carry out the functions of management, control, planning. However, a good court director must have knowledge of the recruitment, administration of the court, the development of good working relations, the use of innovative strategies, the collection, analysis and use of information, not least communication with the public, of course he must not lack financial knowledge. In short, the Group of Social Democrats will support the bill but will not support the proposed amendments of the SDS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u178	Thank you very much. In this law, on behalf of the SDS Group, I should say the following: the government programme envisaged a submission to the National Assembly for this Law 19. 5. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 9 / 1 8. 2009 - only to refresh the memory. Otherwise, some solutions that are extremely good must be welcomed in this law. These are the following - let me start with a positive one, of course, so we must be guided - namely, district courts actually become part of the district courts in some way. This is also recorded in our pre-election programme and, of course, we welcome this solution, because we believe that this will allow much more flexibility between district and district courts, and it will be easier to redistribute judges where necessary. At the same time, however, something has to be said that the vast majority of district courts in the Slovenian space are those that have fully implemented the Lukenda programme, so that in some way they can also say that they will even be punished. But we won't talk about it, we don't pay any attention to it, the solution is good. We also welcome the establishment of a specialized department for more difficult cases. That's a good solution. Let us be brief and concise, the minister proposes something that is correct and useful for our legal system. But I'm going to go to the principals of the courts. The Court Directors are unacceptable to the SDS Group in the way they are placed on the courts. In the international review, which you also have in the material, at least for Germany, Austria, Finland, you will not find such a job. I've had some fun and looked at it myself, and there's a similar function if I'm not mistaken in the Netherlands or Denmark. Somewhere. Of course, we have to agree, and that is absolutely true, we talked about this with the Minister, and I think that at the beginning of this term, there is a lack of management in the judiciary. I agree that there is too little management in the court that this is necessary and more than strictly necessary. But what is management? We're mostly misinterpreting management. Management can be people, management can be processes. That's what every management theory tells you. However, when we talk about management as a process, we are talking about organisation, management, control and planning. But this process of organizing, managing, controlling and planning in all of the world’s management literature is inseparably linked to management: whether it’s lower management, whether it’s medium management, or it’s top management. In the case of the courts we can speak because they act autonomously, independently and so on, that is the top management of the courts. So this function of inseparable organisation, management, control and planning belongs to only one person; this is the President of the Court. Today, we also have the Registrar of the Courts alongside the President, and between these two functions we are introducing the Director of the Court. At least it is not clear from the transitional and final provisions whether or not the post of Registrar of the Court will be extinct. If that were the case, and if we are only, of course, transferring or renaming the secretary to the director, then we have done nothing. In particular, we have done nothing if I do - and that is how it is evident - that this Court Director is subordinated to the President of the Court. For us, it would be a very acceptable solution for the President of the Court to exercise these managerial functions, so let him judge less and let him manage more to deal with the management. That would be perfectly normal, and that would be the case. It is also normal and right that he is partly involved in the trial, in order to retain, if you wish, the status of a judge for a time when the President of the Court will no longer be. More below, in the debate on individual amendments. As far as the decision of the Group is concerned, let me just say that we will only decide when we see the support of our amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u179	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The present article is, according to our assessment, Article 6, which refers to Article 38, which has three brief paragraphs, and speaks of the Court of Justice, on a proposal from the Minister responsible for justice and so on, determining the number of judicial posts by court and so on and so forth. Of course, he says that the conditions, the criteria, are prescribed by the Minister in a sub-legislative act. Our 6th article or amendment proposal for Article 38 is actually talking about - what? It does not contradict the fundamental solution of who determines what, in any way, to remain that way and so be it. At the same time, this amendment, i.e. the amendment to Article 6 and Article 38, very precisely lays down certain criteria in the law. This means that they are not left to the Minister and to the Under-Law, but we want them to be laid down in law. We say, inter alia, in the amendment: In determining the number of courts, the Council takes into account the following criteria: the criteria prescribed by the Minister of Justice for the judiciary, taking into account the average number of cases handled by judges of the individual type and the position of the courts in the last three years, before the year in which the criteria and the reasonable expectation of the amendment belong. The average number of cases before a court in the last three years prior to the year on which the Court of Justice decides on the number of courts. The ratio between the number of courts in individual courts in proportion to the age of judges and the length of the function. Of course, it also involves the ability of judges, whether they are younger, older, or able to judge in more difficult cases or just basic matters. I also find this second part of this amendment, or the last paragraph, which states: In the High Court of Justice, on a proposal from the Minister responsible for Justice, according to the previous opinion of the President of the Court, the Special Courts for District and District Judges, who will replace absent judges in the District and District Courts within the area of the same higher court, deal with exceptional cases or deal with cases in other well-founded cases, in particular with a view to ensuring the right of trial within a reasonable period of time - district, district judges in a higher court. Of course, look, Slovenia is already paying, I think that third year, I remember that in the Government, when I participated in the role of Secretary of State in the Government, virtually every government meeting was set to pay very different amounts: from a few hundred to several thousand euros. These were, if I recall correctly, at every government meeting 15, 20, 30 cases. We each allocated between €50 and €60,000 of compensation for the so-called "unreasonable" trial there at the government's meeting. I believe there's something similar about the government's current meetings. Well, it can't be different, or if that decision is that our courts have already ruled on it, but I think we should, then it's up to the courts to decide. So our amendment goes solely and only in the direction that we do not leave these criteria to every minister, to adapt them to the way he thinks it is right, but to bring into law the most important criteria that any minister should adhere to in a sub-legislative act. In short, we believe that this solution is good and that it shows it exactly because of this, of course, to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A general opinion in Slovenia is that government policy is too much involved in the work of courts and that courts should be more independent in their work. I don't know, maybe this criticism can be partly justified, but I believe that, given the mistakes that have been made in individual courts, there may be a lack of action. With all due respect, Minister-respect, you have written or said that we have before us a novel of the Law on Courts and that this novel brings quite a number of changes in the field of modernisation of the organisation, administration and administration of the courts. I can fully agree with this and we will also support this law in our parliamentary group. On this occasion, however, I would like to draw attention to some open facts, which are also cited in essence by the amendment to this sixth article. I would like to point out in particular this: the fact that many applications - one of these petitions to the court of Cyprus has also been heard from our office, we have written to Mr Testen about the work of the Supreme Court in Cyprus, and we are not the only ones, a few ten of them - have not brought any action. In fact, it's a matter of open suspicion, I suspect there's a "domestic" job in place. Mrs Jožica Velkavra, who is in charge of this work, in fact gives a very high priority to the judgment and gives priority to decision-making when it comes to the judgments represented by Mr Velkavra. And that's not the only thing written in writing in this court. I am also interested in what we will do in the event of a legitimate question to the work of the court, whether this amendment will bring about any changes or whether the Minister will have - because, in the management of the higher courts, the Council of Justice, on a proposal from the Minister, is thus set out in this amendment, which is responsible for the judiciary, according to the previous opinion of the President of the Supreme Court, to appoint a special judge and so on. In short, this amendment speaks of the powers that the minister himself should have in order to make some order and, of course, some legal sustainability. I can rightly argue, not from my own practice, but from a number of comments that this is not the ordinaryity in Cyprus, that there is an anarchy - but nothing has happened. This is kind of tolerated, and when we express criticism, we are also criticized, so that we get involved in the work of the courts and that it is not wise because it is an independent branch of power. That's true. See, however, when legal damages are being assessed, even because the trial was carried out in an unreasonable manner, or because the findings of the court are such that the State is guilty and the result is a financial consequence, these judgments are not taken into account. There's no sanctions here either. I would like, Minister, to have you here in some way to assure us how you will make order in this area. Will what happened in the previous term, when cabinets were opened and unsolved cases removed, also be sanctioned by the Minister? Of course, to a judge who doesn't meet his obligations. A permanent mandate gives some protection to judges who can work on their own. The easiest thing then is to shed anger and harsh words on the one who criticizes, but never to judge whether criticism is well - intentioned or where it is. I would also like to express criticism for those courts that work poorly. These courts are not few, and they suffer if we want them to - judicial protection is the last available to the citizen - including citizens and citizens. Unreasonably waiting for some cases that do not have a so-called VIP bed in the background and unreasonablely short solutions for those who have, in relation to or in such or other relationships in higher courts or in other courts, relevant judges who are related. Slovenia is so small that today almost everyone knows each other. I think that, at least in this branch of power, the judicial branches of authority, the principle of correctness and a high moral standard should apply. I note that this is not the case here, so I also support this amendment, which partially regulates this and corrects the shortcomings in this area, but I would like to hear from your mouth, Minister of Respect, whether you will make an order to the many comments you have written, reasoned and demanding immediate action on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u183	Thank you very much. He mentioned that we are talking about the amendment to Article 6. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u184	Thank you very much. I will remain in the debate on this article and try to answer this last question first. The answer is yes, we are also trying to make order with this change of law, and this is precisely about the question that you opened up, what to do when the court, in sayings, "wrong works". For the law offers this possibility that a court that fails to achieve the results that it itself plans will also have certain consequences. These consequences are borne by the Supreme Court, carried by the President of the Court. Otherwise, when it comes to the question of the amendment to this Article, which also refers to the powers of the Minister, this provision refers to the determination of the appropriate number of judicial posts. In fact, the amendment proposed by the SDS is more substantively consistent with what is laid down in the law before you, more specifically in Article 6. Because the law provides for criteria for determining the number of courts, i.e. the average past and expected caseload, and in particular - and this is the difference between the amendment - the average time taken to solve individual cases. This time component is essential and is also linked to certain other provisions of the law, particularly those relating to the planning of the results of the work of the courts, since the courts will have to adopt time standards, not only for the time needed to solve typical cases, but also for the time needed in the meantime to complete individual typical procedural tasks. Therefore, it is so important that this is also one of the criteria for determining the number of courts. At the Ministry of Justice, however, we do not feel happy with the criteria which the amendment is trying to enforce, and this is the ratio between the number of courts and the age of judges. We don't know what age really means - advantage or weakness. Whether youth means - greater capacity for greater productivity and vice versa, or age means - greater capacity for greater quality. We also found such a criterion relatively nowhere, and this is also one of the reasons why we cannot support this amendment. However, when it comes to the second part of this amendment, this is the one that speaks of so-called "flying judges", let me say that this amendment, that is, the texts that have already been in law, came at the initiative of one of the higher courts, and it has proved in practice that this article has simply not been brought to life and that we do not have such judges or that we have only one such judge in Slovenia who works in the Higher Court area of Celje and solves violations. And that's all. However, in order not to affect the idea which is good, this is that the judicial system should be so flexible as to allow for the deployment of judges within a wider area, you can find in this proposal a regulation whereby the presidents of the district courts are those who determine the order of work for judges throughout the district, which also means in all the district courts in the area. The President of the Court shall do so at least once a year and may do so during the course of the year; that is, whenever the need arises, this work schedule may be adjusted and the President of the Court will now deploy all the judges in the entire district to where it is most necessary. That is why this objective, pursued by this amendment, is fully achieved by other provisions of the law and is therefore not necessary in our view.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u185	Mr. Gorenak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Once again, I have come to the debate on this amendment, so that I should not continue to speak about the Council of Justice and these relations with others, in particular the Ministry, so that I do not have to talk about this at the next amendment. Look, what you just said is that it didn't actually come to life. Yes, please, I'd like to ask you, somewhere in practice must live if it's written in marriage! It's the same as not going to government meetings, and we know that government meetings are and you're a member of the government. And then someone would say that this rule of procedure did not live up to the fact that the judiciary or the interior or any minister does not attend government meetings. It's got to be in the law! He's got to! So we leave to the Council of Justice more and more powers - I wouldn't, I'll say - we leave to the Council of Justice more and more powers, they can, if they think so, otherwise the law won't live. And that's not good. The law must live and there is no discussion here. As for the relationship with the Council of Justice, as this amendment speaks of, another matter must be said. Look, the Council of Justice has been a little rebuttal to this law, if I recall anything good about their opinion. In fact, where he was given authority, of course he accepted it, approved it and quickly attached a ticket, which is called "give us money, cadres and everything else", because we also accepted a conclusion; where they did not like one thing, they are against it. And the problem of the Council of Justice is this - I am afraid that with such solutions, loose solutions to the Council of Justice; talking about this - I do not agree with this - that we will give them as much as possible, the more autonomous it will be, it will be professional, it will be independent. Because even through the introduction of this budgetary committee, in some way, we are giving the judiciary another emphasis on autonomy and I do not know what. I've already said x-fold: yes, independence, absolutely, in decision-making, but not in other matters, how big a chair will be, what a table, what a computer will be, and not least how many of us will be judges. But there's no solitude here. Sorry, not for me. And the Council of Justice simply accepts what it thinks is good, and this is not good for the system of functioning of justice. I think that the transfer of these powers, one way or another, and we, the amendment, wanted to restrict the Minister by a legal provision to tell him what and how the Council of Justice must do. That's just not good. For a little while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u188	First of all, if something is written in the law, it has to be done. The problem is that, following the regulation so far, it was up to the judges themselves. For only the one who wanted to enter such an appointed place as a flying judge could have obtained this status. No one checked in. What we now bring with this novel is no longer dependent on the judge’s consent. The judge has to go to that court that is more burdensome and that is decided by the President of the Court with a schedule of work. This is the added value of this change and therefore this law will come to life, unlike the previous one. As for the question of the Council of Justice, we have very carefully added some powers to the Council of Justice, and not all those which the Council of Justice could have, and also have in a number of countries - just so as not to impose too much and what it has received, relates to measuring the effectiveness of the courts. In order not to be left alone in the exercise of this role, the Council of State also received it. That's a big change. The Council of Justice will now report to you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, on how it assesses the effectiveness of the courts. You'll discuss it. We're not doing this right now. I think this is also one way to establish an effective system of brakes and balances between different branches of government. The Council of Justice, mentioned earlier, resisted some news in this law. I wouldn't say he resisted. Above all, he was concerned that his human and spatial capacities, such as this moment, had a very poor professional job with five people in it, would not be in favour of these changes. Therefore, at the Ministry, we supported the proposal adopted by the mother labour force, the proposal to order the Supreme Court, the Ministry and the Council of Justice to work together to find a solution to increase these human and spatial capacities. Let me tell you, we've already done this. The President of the Supreme Court, the President of the Council of Justice and I, as ministers, had a working meeting, where we had exactly shared our tasks and also agreed on how we would get these human resources and spatial reinforcements. Already after the adoption of the budget, which is in the National Assembly. If the law is well prepared, if the implementation of the law is well prepared, and of course it falls within this framework, then it has considerable potential to achieve the effects that we are pursuing with this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u189	Thank you. I note that no one wants to discuss the amendment to Article 6, so we continue with the debate on the amendments to Articles 11, 12, 17 and 42 of the SDS Group. Since the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 11, 12, 17 and 42 are substantively related, I shall also put to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the SDS Group, Article 12 of the SDS Group's amendment, Article 17 of the amendment of the same Group of Members and Article 42 of the amendment of the same Group of Members. Anybody want to talk about it? I see two hands. Mr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Of course, I'm going to continue where I basically ended up for the pay phone, because that's when the time ran out. I need to get back to the theoretical level. This law therefore introduces the directors of the courts and that is, at least as regards my Group of Members, the SDS Group, a solution that is not appropriate. That's because it doesn't have any extra value. Why doesn't he have one? Because of the fact that it is nowhere else you will find such a model, except in one of the countries, I stress once again whether it is the Netherlands or Denmark, I think that the Netherlands is, on the other hand, such a model is simply not. Another time. As far as introducing the Director is concerned, the following matter must be said. However, I must, of course, talk about the situation in relation between the President of the Court, the Registrar of the Court, the judges from the point of view of management. And we said management, organization, control and planning. Regrettably, it must find that, if the organisation is still somehow, however, the current minister's guilt or anything - to those skeletons, the missing writings, the late written judgments and so on and so on. If we were to be well organized, it should not be, but let's just say that this is as much as it is. I submit that in court, there is complete absence of guidance, control and planning in the courts. Let me get this straight. Indeed, these are the tasks, Mr President, which the Director is supposed to be doing, so I am talking about this matter in the context of this amendment. Because if the Director doesn't do this, then it's not the right name to be the Director. Look, leadership. I spoke to one of the prosecutors a while ago, the head of the prosecution - I asked him how he understood this and the person who was once his superior, because otherwise it was important for this issue, but of course he did not explain - that I do not know what he was doing. No, no, no, no, it's my business, and I don't do that. I assign the files and the mission is over for me. Sorry, where is control, where is management and where is planning - so don't do that. Next, if we're just talking about control. Who's gonna do that now? Director of the Court. How's that? Is that what the President of the Court is going to do? I claim that these original functions, such as organisation, management, control and planning, belong exclusively to the manager and the manager is the President of the Court. That the President of the Court has a subordinate director who is supposed to be involved in management is an abnormal situation. You can't find such a situation anywhere in the world, but we had it in Ljubljana ten years ago. In fact, the Higher School of Home Affairs, which was then an integral part of the interior ministry and at the same time respected the university's criteria, had a director and a dean. It is clear that they were always at odds with each other and that the Director’s words prevailed because he was subordinated to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, because he received his salary there as well as all the employees. There's something like this that's about to happen here. If the Director - and - is subordinated to the President of the Court in the proposed text, he cannot perform managerial functions. However, if the management functions will be those of the President of the Court, I agree that this could be a better solution or a better solution, only then do we not need the Court Director because we have enough of the Registrar of the Court. Let me move on, say, to a function called control. That goes with management, that goes with the director. Look at how we have today's controlled control function within the judiciary. We don't have it. Sorry, we don't have it! We have placed in a semi-middle way when the court at some elementary level decides something, but the parties can complain and the higher court cancels, returns to a retrial or any such annulment or confirmation, of course. It's kind of a control function. But what's the function? How did this take place in a court of law in Krske? When the court sees that the bankruptcy manager has already received an advance for the work of the bankruptcy manager, it will once again be awarded to him. How is the control function in the court in Ljubljana? As the year-old law that makes it impossible does not provide for an advance for bankruptcy managers, the court has determined peacefully that the bankruptcy manager at Vrhnika will receive it. So who's in control? We can't give it to the director, especially if he's an economist or not. The judicial branch of power within itself must exercise control, which means the President of the Court. This is not the case, you know, now we simply cancel or not cancel in a higher court and it comes to this or the case becomes legal, just as it has become in Krske. And they pay those who didn't get anything, they're either workers or the state -- we're reading the diary today, which is something else to talk about. So, control as a management function, which is supposed to judge the director and, in my opinion, not the president. And also this solution that we have with the Court's Director does not represent some smart solution that could go in the right direction. Therefore, with the amendments to Articles 11, 12, 17 and 42, we are in fact deleting the function of Director of the Courts. Maybe, Minister, but it's your idea that, I don't know, I'll say, the name is wrong that I'm not getting involved in this. I don't know exactly what you're thinking. There's something in the marriage. But it doesn't even say in marriage. Maybe it's the one that's not real. Whatever it is, however, is a fixed fact beyond which we cannot: management is for the President of the Court. I don't want to offend, or whatever, the courts, the judges and so on, but with all my responsibility, I claim that the judges, the presidents of the courts have no managerial skills. It's not obvious that they don't, because I don't have any medical, or any other medical, and many of us sitting here don't have any skills. But if you want to run an institution called a bakery, if you want to run an institution called a bakery, a tavern, a police or a judge, whatever we say, you have to have management skills. And "de facto" is the fact that in the process of training, training judges, especially after training, when the Presidents of the courts and so on, they do not get such skills and do not actually have anywhere to get them. I think that the Ministry is obliged to offer them a series of management education in every way, because that will only lead us to the desired state. The desired situation is, in my opinion, when all four functions of management given to the director today by this bill are an integral part of the thinking, behaviour and work of each president of the court or of each department within the court if you wish. This is the only way we can get these basic functions of management to come to life in court. And it won't be today, it won't be tomorrow, it won't be during your term. I know you can't do that in such a short time. But if you start this process today, if you start this process today, Slovenia can hope in a few years for visible results in this area and visible results can also be in, I will say, faster decision-making, more efficient trial management, in informationing judicial proceedings and so on and so on. Because they're all management stuff that the presidents of the courts don't see today. I believe that if it wasn't for you or your predecessors to force them back into computerization, force them into new knowledge in this area, believe me, we'd still have a typewriter today. I'm thinking about that -- you know. Because things are moving too slowly. They are moving too slowly due to the lack of knowledge in this area and with the Director of the Court, with all due respect, I am sure that we will not bring this into Slovenian courts. My assessment is that the situation will be quite different from court to court. But I still don't know what's gonna happen to the secretaries today. Please, if you show me one article that really shuts down secretaries who don't quit, then it's a disaster to introduce directors, because then we have another third head office within a court. The reality will simply be that the secretaries, which one article suggests for a transitional period, will most likely become directors of the courts, will have a slightly higher salary than they have today, and believe me, I very much doubt that a man of yours or my age will change his working habits, even if he has been acting as a Registrar of the Court for five or ten years. So it's still going to be the same, and that's not good. That's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u191	Mr Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that most of the content that I wanted to explain to these amendments was actually taken by the predecessor, but I will try to explain where I actually see the fundamental reason that would lead us to adopt the proposed amendments proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. One of these is definitely this term of director. It is a novelty that has emerged in a court of law, where we see that in us comparable countries of the European Community they do not know it or perhaps in which. On the other hand, this city, which somehow belongs to some other economic sectors, may be a little less to the court. If we look at this hierarchy now, we see that the President of the Court is at the summit, then he was a secretary and now we're adding the Court's directors in between. This is probably not sufficiently clearly defined in the proposal itself, whether this option applies only to specialised courts or to all courts. Actually, I haven't noticed this exact definition, and now I'm having some doubts as to whether it's true or not. The law itself does not specify which tasks of the judicial administration cannot be delegated to the director of the court. Here I think the explanation would be very useful to maybe get rid of these feelings, that the possibility of interconnecting powers between the President of the Court and between the Director is left. And the general conclusion somehow makes it feel like in these situations we're trying to get some additional functions, and we're also spreading, I'm going to say, some powers that might not actually be bad. But it would probably be better to define the term of director, for which we somehow, as we suggest in these amendments, to avoid or delete it. However, if, in the second reading, we find, even if by further clarifications by the applicant, it would be reasonable to specify exactly what function these restrictions are, where these restrictions are, whether they are not intertwined or whether the appointment or admission of the possibility and introduction of this additional work of the Court of Justice is complicated and, of course, rather than going in the direction that things are moving faster, they are resolved, and we are giving the possibility that some things may still be time-consuming or that this is something that is probably not the most preconceived, we are proposing that these articles, which refer to the directors of the courts, be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u193	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u194	Thank you very much. First of all, I must say that I am extremely pleased that the National Assembly is discussing that our judiciary needs more management. Not so long ago, when the judiciary just thought he didn't need management at all. Now he's explained something about the directors. I'll start in 2005. At that time, the project was completed, led by the Supreme Court, funded by the European Union and its address was achieved with the help of reform of administration and administration in Slovenian courts. The project was also supported by the Ministry of Justice, at which time Dr. Šturm was Minister. This project results in a number of analyses and recommendations. When it comes to the question of the directors of the courts and the administration and administration of the courts, I will read one part of these recommendations to you because this may sound most convincing because they are recommendations, others that have been made in close cooperation with the Supreme Court, with the courts at lower levels and with the Ministry of Justice. Findings. First of all, with regard to the execution of the tasks of the judicial administration and the management of the common services of the court, we find that at the moment it is necessary to consider the introduction of the Director or the Director of the Court. This issue is particularly important because, so far, several times, the need to separate a professional from a business function in the administration of courts has been expressed. We are witnessing increasingly difficult situations and decisions that require specific knowledge not only in the field of the legal profession, but mainly in the area of management, economy, finance and management of personnel. Such specific knowledge, according to our assessment, is currently not satisfactory in Slovenian courts. Of course, we do not want to say that the leadership of our courts does not have the capacity to carry out their work, but in the long run, the need for these special skills is very clear. We estimate that the judiciary is very malnourished in this area, because given its current situation, rapid changes in the wider social environment make certain changes in the organisation and administration of the judiciary necessary. Given the content of the tasks of the judicial administration and the management of the common services, it is therefore necessary, in our opinion, to introduce changes in the direction of greater emphasis in areas such as the management and financial functioning of the courts. Recommendations. First time. We propose that for certain larger courts, consideration should be given to the establishment of a business director of the Court, who would be responsible for the functioning of the entire administration of the Court and would have knowledge, in particular, in the field of management, finance and management of staff. Another time. For the Presidents, the Registrars of the Courts and the Heads of the Courts, regular education and training should be introduced and organised for work in the areas referred to above. I've only read one piece because of that, of course, there's more to it. Who's especially interested in this, can get these publications from us at the Ministry. The problem is that no progress has been made in this area, no step in this direction, towards the completion of this report. This government, this ministry, wants to do so because it deeply agrees with these findings, because these findings are not just across the board, but the result of carefully produced analyses carried out by internationally recognised experts in the field of judicial management and public administration. It is not true that other Member States do not know the courts. They are known, especially by those countries where the judiciary works best, the United States of America, the Netherlands, Finland, Ireland and others. Those countries which have understood sufficiently early enough that a good part of the concept of the new public management must also be transferred to the judiciary, of course, taking into account certain specifics. Those countries today have the least problems in the judicial system. And that's why we decided to go this way. The director may raise some doubts because this is a typical business function that is characteristic of the economy, but we have deliberately used this term. In this way, we would like to point out that, unlike the current regime, when the judges were assisted by the secretaries of the courts, these secretaries generally ran for these seats only to choose a better position so that they could run for judges later. These secretaries were, as a rule, lawyers. They did not come from the environment and did not even have an education, and they still do not have it today, and they do not have it, for ever, that would be adapted to business management. Therefore, in connection with the articles governing the terms and conditions of who the director may be, we are trying to establish incentives in the law for the judicial system to open itself up to real management and not just for some intermediate step to continue the judicial career. This was the main reason we used the name of the Director and therefore we distinguish it from the secretary. No more secretaries. Article 42 of the Act is clear and shall cease this function by appointing the Director. So we will have not three people dealing with governance and governance, but only two - the President of the Court and the Director. Of course, there is a certain transitional period, under the law, and we must harmonise this in order for this model to be properly implemented. The President of the Court will be the controller, so he will do exactly what you, esteemed Mr Gorenak, have pointed out. He can't do that at all. He's explicitly banned. He can't take over any of the tasks that have anything to do with the performance of the judicial service. When it comes to overseeing the work of judges, this is the exclusive competence of the President of the Court. However, when it comes to issues that are now being referred to the Director, and now I would like to highlight what the Director will actually do - the Director will take care of the establishment of the financial plan of the Court, the implementation of the financial plan, the liquidation of the accounts, the conclusion of contracts, the management of public procurement procedures in the courts, the security of the courts, the appropriate spatial conditions for the work of judges, the human resources management when it comes to the issue of judicial administration, not the judges - these are the tasks that the law provides for directors. It is a strict separation of powers between the President and the Director, but not in the way of getting two worlds in the same house, two masters in the same house. Because cooperation between the two will be essential to ensure that the system works as a whole. It is also for this reason that the President of the Court proposes the appointment of the Director to the Minister. In some ways, therefore, the President of the Court has the first and last words and is therefore also responsible for the employment of the Court, he will be resolved if the Court fails to achieve the relevant results. If the poor results in court are due to the poor work of the Director, the President of the Court will propose a replacement. If he does not propose it, he himself will be responsible for these poor results, and the logic is very simple. For this reason, we believe that this is an appropriate model, which can mean a major change in our judiciary. And one thing, we are very well aware of and fully agree with those who point out that there is a lack of systematic training for those in charge of management in the court. And that is why you will find in this law two articles that explicitly provide mandatory training for the directors and the presidents of the courts. And in this regard, we have already begun to renovate educational programmes in this regard, so that this education programme for the management and management of courts will now be an integral component of the annual education programme implemented within the framework of the Centre for Education in Justice and will likely be implemented twice to three times a year in order to ensure that, according to certain exchanges that are normal in the judiciary, every new director and every new president will always be able to go through this specialised training programme as soon as possible. And it won't take a day, we're counting on it to be a ten-to-four-day program, a very intense program. Anyone who doesn't want to fall for it won't be able to run for that position at all. This is also an important news. For this reason, we believe that this is a good solution and therefore we insist that it is time for our judiciary to have excellent leadership, even when it comes to classical business, finance, personnel and so on. Which is why we suggest you withdraw these proposed amendments. From a purely technical point of view, and from a systemic, normative point of view, these amendments cannot be adopted, because they should then be amended by Articles 21, 22, 23 and 25 of the Law, and these articles are not open and cannot be amended. In any case, who got a completely nonconsistency law if these amendments were adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u195	Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. Minister, you said that the directors know the United States, Ireland and Finland, but in the accompanying text which introduces this law, these cases are not explicitly mentioned. You also cited the 2005 report and recommendations, with the end of 2009, and perhaps this analysis would need some refreshment. And also with regard to this Institute of Directors of the Court, there is no single professional opinion but political opinion. Of course, we are very different about this, and that is why we have also tabled an amendment to this article, because we believe that the Institute of the Director of the Court is not needed and that the system will be undermined in this way. However, I must say that you can also receive great praise from our side regarding the introduction of a specialised section for trial in difficult cases of organised and economic crime, terrorism, corruption and other crimes. In this law you describe in detail how a judge will be assigned to a specialised department for how long, what education and experience he must have. Since you still have plenty of time at your disposal, I would ask you if you could explain some of the open dilemmas in this regard. I wonder: Which of the Slovenian judges will do this kind of work after you have established the balance sheet, when there is no more material incentive for judges? One of the judges will accept this function after we know that there are serious threats to Slovenian judges. I would also like to hear your assessment of the number of judges who, in addition to their expertise, have the courage to judge such complex cases of organised crime, as they will certainly be intimidated by the trial. I would also like your answer to the question of how you will provide the judges who will participate in this group with appropriate security. I wonder: Do you think that judges will compete mass for such a job that will be very exposed and likely to be quite threatened? I have the case of Prosecutor Györkoös of Maribor, who was protected by a prosecutor for almost two years because she was on trial in this outrageous case. On the other hand, we also have cases where only one phone call is allowed when someone tells the judge that he knows exactly which way his child is going to school, and the judgment is completely different than it could be under some law that I am not talking about justice. So, what will you do to make participation in this specialised section for Slovenian judges a major challenge? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. At the same time, Mr. Secretary, it was a number of deadlines, so I'm just going to open the application. I ask for further discussion on these amendments. Mr. Secretary, please. Then he'll get the word, Mr. Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Your Honor! You have raised very relevant questions. All of it. When it comes to financial motivation, we do not have a balance sheet system, because in the judiciary we have a career system with advances to pay grade, title and higher judicial posts. Only those able to obtain a proper assessment of the judicial service can then achieve financial effects in this way. This is precisely why the law stipulates that these judges working in a specialised department will have the salary of a supreme judge. Therefore, if you imagine that the interest for this group is likely to be greater between district and higher judges than among the Supreme Judges themselves, then this will be a significant financial stimulus under the applicable Wage System Act. Another time. Threats to the judges. This is a problem that we are also very well aware of in relation to a group of specialised judges. It is my opinion that the courage you have been talking about at this time goes to all Slovenian criminal judges who deal with difficult economic crime cases. If it wasn't for him, we'd be out of court. What we now want to achieve with this change is, above all, more specialisation and a faster trial in these matters. However, it is quite clear, especially if it comes to difficult cases of organised crime, that this specialised department will also have to receive specific security measures. We've already made preparations at the Ministry. It's not just about job security, it's also about security outside of it and about getting back to that introductory remark that you didn't find any comparative data on countries with directors, so let me tell you that we're being assisted by specialists from the United States of America that we're in close contact with at two levels. At the level of the Federal Court of America, which has a special service of the US Court Marshall, which is solely responsible for the security of the courts and which, in my opinion, is currently the most sophisticated system for the protection of judges, which I know and also cooperate with the International Association of Judges for the Management of Courts, of which Slovenia is also the founder. It was established in Slovenia, so we will also come up with all the necessary safety recommendations and standards that we can develop in Slovenia. We are very well aware, this is a serious challenge for all of us. I cannot predict what the concrete response of the judges will be when an invitation to tender is issued for these open courts, which are otherwise decided by the Council of Justice, but I am getting the hint that despite all these events, despite the relatively low reputation and trust that judges have in the public for very different reasons and despite the recent threats that are all worthwhile. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u199	Mr. Guido Kres has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u200	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would not focus so much on the amendments, but mainly on the implementation of the Minister at a time when we discussed these amendments. Look, Mr. Minister, you're talking about management, and you're saying you're glad that we've talked to the Members about this and that you're reaping support here. Of course, I support your view, and I also support your view in this sense that education is essential. I've been talking all the time, yeah, it's true, continuous education. Discussions on motivation have now opened up at this time. Of course it's motivation, the financial motivator certainly means a lot, but this one has its limits and it's always only with financial motivation that you don't come anywhere because it's never over. Motivation is also a working environment, education, as you said, organisation of working time, organisation of leisure time and so on. That'll have to be used, too. There's something I'd like to point out. I just got this paper in my hand, Capital, 26. Ten. 2009 It says, "Manage is dead." I've been talking about this for a long time, and I've been really in the field, watching what management is like, under duress, under duress. Then there's no results. The less people can be guided, the more they have to be motivated in another way. And it says here, "welcome coaching." In short, this is a new way to motivate workers and guide workers by giving instructions, by different ways of acting, by different ways of leading and here I would like to warn you at this time. When you go to this education, it is most likely that you have already predicted that it should be educated in the direction of respectful participation in this training, because "coaching" means a change in human behavior. Organizational behaviour needs to be studied, human development needs to be studied and effective business coaching is achieved. Managers believe more or less that they can manage people. They tell them what they must do, how and what they must not do, and they seek fault in them. People need to look for what they know, what they are motivated and right people to the right places and create a real "team". The "coaching" skills, at least after this article I read, say you can learn it in a few days and if you use it every day, the results are also quickly visible. Studies have shown that productivity increased from 39% to 56% in a very short time, when management from a classic management type was converted into a "coaching" mode. I don't think there's any reason we wouldn't believe these research, these experts who did this. You've probably already read this Capital, if you haven't read it, you can say it nicely and inside this lady, warn me that she's been writing about this book "Stop Managing, Start Coaching!" In short, you have convinced me in your implementation and I must say that I will support your efforts. Of course, you convinced me by telling me that you would work hard on people who normally worked all those years after one sample, using a pattern that carried their results, but most likely these samples were out of date. I believe that you will also take this suggestion into account, and that you are probably already working in this way to educate these people, motivate them, and I am sure that you will succeed and benefit all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u201	Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, now that you have explained how you represent this position of President of the Court down to the Director and so on, I actually have a question in this regard. In May, in the National Assembly, we passed the Police Act a lot, and we came up with no idea of what system of appointment of the CEO, which is unique, which Ghana does not have, but some European state, and so we got mixed up with the Minister. That's where I figure it out. If, in your role, you wanted to achieve what you have previously explained, you would change the description of the works and tasks of the current Registrar of the Court and tell him what is the description of the works and tasks of the current Registrar of the Court, assign to him these tasks that you have listed here, further educate him, if necessary, and in the National Assembly you would be commended for two fundamental solutions, these are organised crime and those solutions that we have already praised in the SDS Group. This is how we discuss the famous director. I see it's just a change from secretary to director and nothing else, actually. However, I am pleased that you will continue or wish to work, or will continue to train judges, the Presidents of the courts in terms of increasing knowledge in the field of management. This is therefore necessary in any case. A whole set of articles should be amended for this because secretaries, as the future provision says, will become directors, are not necessary. In job systemization, you can say whatever you want, business manager, business director, whatever you say, because you can prescribe it in systemization and give it such and such knowledge and such and such tasks as it will perform. So, the change of law and all this persuasion here, this afternoon, is not really necessary, because we are now transforming the business secretary into a director by law. Yeah, why? I can do it with job systemization. I see some in the coalition agree with me somehow. So, I continue to say that the management and the presidents of the courts and the knowledge in this area, and thank God that you will continue as much as possible, will make the best of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u203	Mr. Mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I must say that I am very happy that in this Chamber there is so much support - positive - for the good solutions to this law, because it is, and children know that justice in Slovenia is not in such an enviable state that it does not deserve positive, good changes to improve the organisation, to make a shorter, fair trial within a reasonable time and for moderate money. And that's what this is all about. You know, from that fairy tale that it's more than the color of a chicken, it's important what kind of eggs it carries, you could say - now whether it's a director or a manager or a secretary it's not that important. I must say that I am just negatively surprised that apparently some of the words of the secretary from those self-serving years and other wars mean so much, really interestingly, that they want to keep it at all costs. Clearly, the word symbolically really expresses some nostalgia in past times. However, I think that when we are talking about technical issues concerning the court, who will fix the windows, coordinate matters with the cleaners, prevents them from being too bloated, so that the roof does not close, that everything will be okay with the parking lots, I am sure that we do not need a court-appointed judge to do so. A capable and decent manager can do this in the framework of his work and tasks. Therefore, in my name, I can say, and also on behalf of the House of Representatives, that such amendments to articles 11, 12, 17 and 42, which are poor or take something that is well-designed, I will certainly not support. I have not heard of this debate, which is quite a long one, no wise and weighty reason. I am particularly pleased with the many positive steps that the Ministry of Justice has taken in the past year. These are the days when we are doing an accounting for this government, which has taken over the mandate in extremely difficult, difficult times, is doing its best and doing its best. So this moment is possible, especially since we are talking about the Law on Courts, there has been a lot of judicial and judicial action. This National Assembly has already been able to reflect on this point, so that, of course, the Constitutional Decision is not commented on, it is not assessed politically or otherwise, but to be implemented, it is going in the right direction in the more effective functioning of the courts, which is what we all want. We support the establishment of specialised departments for trial in more complex forms of organised and economic crime. I also welcome the response of the system to the ministry of principle in the last unloving events that have happened to us. It is necessary to protect the basic principles of this country and justice is certainly one of those values. Reflecting on independence, solid rewards and greater security of judges, it seems to us to be on the spot. However, I am also promising a lot from the Alternative Dispute Resolution Act, which can also lead to Slovenia and Slovenia being less a people of justice than we have been before. So let me make my mind up. Such amendments to the four articles, which are related, which just delete, take something for a good marriage, I will not support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u205	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u206	For the sake of the magnetogram alone, I would like to respond to the claim that by describing the works and tasks, we can resolve all questions concerning directors or secretaries. In our first year of law school, we were taught that you can't transfer legal powers to anyone by means of an internal act. We transfer the important powers that the Presidents of the courts have so far had to the directors, and we can only do so by law. Moreover, the secretaries of the courts are the legal category provided for in the Law on Courts and should therefore be amended if we are to abolish them. This cannot be done with internal acts in the courts. And one thing is, these secretaries of the courts today don't necessarily have to be CEOs. There's no automaticity in the law. They will compete for executive positions and compete with others who will apply. This isn't about automatic translation into some new title. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u207	Thank you very much. I note that no one wants to discuss these amendments anymore, so I am closing the debate. The amendments will be decided today, within half an hour of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and the 11th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 4.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u208	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 40. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 9. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 21. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 24. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. The assembly will hold the third reading of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly, on the basis of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: "The draft law for third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, for 43, for 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009 in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mag. Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u209	Thank you very much. We will not support the proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party because of several things. First time. We are amending the Law on the implementation of the budget for two years, with one year in the course of this practically in the back and the second year expired. So we're adopting a practical law to go back and it's another one in a series of inconsistencies. And the other thing is, with regard to the effects of this change of law. The government is clearly unaware of the seriousness of the situation in which the Slovenian state and the Slovenian economy are located, so it is taking some small-scale measures in terms of managing the expenditure from the State budget in terms of rationalising public administration, rather than seriously cutting into the efficiency of the public sector and also all other sectors that are subject to budget or budget expenditure. So it is some savings of symbolic nature compared to the 2 billion deficits that we are looking forward to next year, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we expected the Government to come to the table by reducing the administrative and bureaucratic burdens that we all have, it is said, by simplifying the procedures, resulting in the identification of certain surpluses within institutions and with people everywhere, in the broadest sense of the state administration, of course, this prosperous state apparatus has been considerably crippled. Instead, we get one ridiculous rule, which only cleavages certain things, on the basis of a social agreement in the past. I ask, has anyone made any social arrangements with the pensioners, and will you further trim the reconciliation of pensions for half? Has anyone done any harmonising, social coordination with recipients of social transfers, which for half of them will be harmonising the coordination of social transfers in the future? So where you fit the reference to a social arrangement, there you respect it, where you don't, of course you don't need it, but it is significantly more decisive for the lives of people in the future in this country. It is clear that neither the Government nor the coalition are aware of the seriousness of the situations and therefore they are luring public finances into the abyss and such an approach in the Slovenian Democratic Party will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u210	Thank you very much. We vote. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 24. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, within the framework of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 6. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 7th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the Proposal for an Alternative Dispute Resolution Act, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS to Article 6b. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 56 votes against 20. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 11, and recall that if this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to the title of Article 11 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This made the amendment to Article 11 irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 12. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 12a. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 13. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 14. There are 77 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 22. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We're moving to third reading. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a bill-maker if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I propose that the National Assembly hold a third hearing at this meeting on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u212	Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, be held at this meeting at a third hearing. We are moving on to a decision on that decision. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the council has taken a decision. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Thursday 19 November 2009, following the end of the vote. The services of the National Assembly will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 11. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments to Articles 12, 17 and 42. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Articles 12, 17 and 42 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This has made the amendments to Articles 12, 17 and 42 irrelevant. We have concluded our decision on the amendments and thus conclude our second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments were not adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 16. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to item 1 of the agenda, which is to questions from Members and Members. In line with the proposal by Mr Jelinčič Trinitary, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of the President of the Parliament, Mr Jelinčič Trimenite, concerning the arbitration agreement. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Victory by Jelinčič Nobles on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In 1918, between the countries when they entered the Kingdom of SHS, later Yugoslavia, under the rule of the National Council in Ljubljana, and other provinces of the new country, there was a precise and marked interstate border, which to this day has never changed any act in any way. As long as the Federal Socialist Republic was on both sides without international jurisdiction, the border did not play its interstate role. This in itself appeared again during the second war, when the Nazis established the Independent State of Croatia and this was in effect until 1945. Again, this occurred at the collapse of the federal state in 1991, for something has to fall apart only to the parts from which it came. At that time, no one noticed this fact, and the gentlemen who were running the Slovenian state at the time missed a lot of things. However, it would be fatal if, at the time of the agreement just signed, the determination of the border was not left to a third party, that is to say to the arbitral tribunal. The Agreement irrefutablely derogates from any decision so far concerning the border. Not a single word specifies where the current border is between countries. Surely, therefore, no decision taken so far can apply. Not Badinter's, not the one in the basic constitutional charter. At least some fixed ideas for bureaucrats. However, if any of these decisions are in force, then the arbitration agreement cannot apply as it misleads the arbitrators and both parties in the proceedings. Under these principles and rules, there is no doubt that Istria and the islands belong to Slovenia as part of the entire country of Primorska to Slovenia, the tribunal must prevent the collapse in Zagreb by moving the border up north and with some chimney, i.e. Croatia, allowing Zagreb to have a piece of sea border with Italy. The Arbitration Agreement can therefore be a historic achievement only provided that the Government writes in the Memorandum the only argument that fulfils the condition set out in Article 4. This is the interstate border at the time the Kingdom of SHS was created. Other acts and facts of an interstate nature relating to the territory of today's countries of Slovenia and Croatia concern only the countries of Yugoslavia and Italy until 1991. Prime Minister Pahor was right when he said that for us it was a cut-off date 1991. In 1991, when both of the ever-existing interstate borders of 1918 were created by new entities of interstate law, this border, i.e. from 1918, became relevant again. These are facts that cannot be eliminated on the international legal platform and therefore it is necessary to debate here to clarify the basic facts and basic concepts, but not to sell the country as Mr Pahor wishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u214	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Visiak will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of mags. Andrej Visiak on the delay in planning Slovenian energy policy and on investments in renewable sources. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The Group of Members will support the proposal. Although it would be difficult for me to discuss an answer that was not available, I did not get an answer. I asked the distinguished President of the Government why there is a stagnation in planning strategic energy documents of the national energy plan and the action plan for renewable energy. I didn't get an answer. I asked him what he was going to do to speed up the stagnant projects in renewables, especially underlining the investment in the construction of hydropower plants on the lower Sava. Let me remind you that because of the undeveloped financial structure for the construction of water infrastructure, this should have been up to 30. 6. done, an invitation to tender for the selection of the contractor was cancelled and every month the congestion will cost Slovenian energy about half a million euros. Who's responsible for this? I have not received an answer at all what the Prime Minister will do to speed up these projects. I asked him how the State Institute for Nature Protection proposed a construction site in Natura 2000 in the middle of the hydrocentral project. This is said in the middle of the project to put the area into it, and this is what the state is doing. I mean, I didn't get the unbearable situation and the answer again. I asked the distinguished Prime Minister that the officials of the Ministry of the Economy are predicting the introduction of new taxes, such as contributions to renewable resources, contributions to efficient use and so on. That the financial effects of these new taxes are already foreseen on the revenue side of the 2010 budget, that is to say, this will happen virtually tomorrow. And I asked him what basic living conditions, which services, which goods will be encouraged in Slovenia to know how and how much life will cost in the future in Slovenia. I didn't get any answers. And I think if we want to find out what is actually going on in this energy policy - there is planning, there is implementation, and contrary to all logic, new duties are being introduced - it is also important that in such matters we discuss in Parliament, that we have a broad debate and that we allow the President of the Government and also his ministers to explain these answers and, of course, these dilemmas that appear in the public eye. This, you know, the director of the Energy Directorate predicts that the price of fuel oil will come closer to the price of oil, is a worrisome concern.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u216	Thank you very much. We're voting. Breakup. Yes, you do. Another parliamentary group wants an explanation of vote. [[...]] On behalf of the delegation? [[He doesn't want to.]] Explanation on its own behalf, Brada Roast, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u217	I will vote against this because, among other things, it is clear from the question itself that the answers to such questions cannot be given in a way that the interrogator is satisfied. Because those who ask how Natura 2000 appeared in an area where the hydropower plant is supposed to be built on the bottom of the Sava do not know that this is not the idea and the invention of the Nature Protection Agency or the Slovenian Environmental Agency, but the Commission, which is also threatening with a lot of severe sanctions, does not know that we will not correct Nature as it was intended, then it was at the time of the current Director of the Directorate when the Minister was that, of course, it is not possible to say that this is now the fault of this government, but it is the fault of many others who planned in the area that he knew that Natura 2000 should be the construction of the hydroelectric power plant.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u218	Thank you very much. I ask you to apply for explanations of vote on your own behalf and I remind you that debate and controversy are not possible. This applies to everyone, including the previous speaker. That would apply to both of us. The word "Victory" is by the nobles, in his own name. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I think it makes sense for the debate to open. I think it's very important. Even if we are talking about Natura 2000, it must be said that despite the sounding words about protection, in more or less the same framework of ruling parties as today, Natura 2000 began to be destroyed by the construction of these wind centres on Volova Rebra and on Vremščica. This has been learned by Mr Kopač, who is back in this ruling suit, so I think that these issues need to be clarified here and I will absolutely vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak in his own name, but I warn you without controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u221	As a member of the Group, I will support the debate mainly because a number of issues need to be clarified in this regard. Nature zones may be declared where certain specific species are protected or are present in one country and are not present in another area, and since this is the specification of one area, that area shall be declared. In the case of the lower Sava, it is interesting that the research of certain species was only explored in the area of the lower Sava and nowhere else in Slovenia. And that's what Energy ordered. Since Energy has found that certain animal species are there, the state has not taken care to explore the whole of Slovenia and has found that the lower Sava is so specific that it is considered safe. This has not been done, however, the Institute for Nature Protection has proposed the inclusion of this area in Natura 2000, although it does not know how it is with animal species elsewhere. This is a completely illogical move that blocks the project and can result in billions of damages. In the end, the chain without the key hydropower plants cannot function effectively. That's why I don't think the left hand knows what the right hand is doing. That is why I also asked the President of the Government, because he is the one who has to coordinate the activities of the state and government services and thus make effective decisions. This is another important reason why I think that this broad debate is needed and why there are some impossible situations in which the same country blocks state investment and does as a result damage not only to the national economy but does harm to the state in its efforts to achieve the national targets of renewable energy in terms of the EU's efforts. So it's the wrong world.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. I'm asking you to sign up. Jože Tanko, explanation of voice in your own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u223	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this proposal to answer the question raised by the Prime Minister. We have been witnessing for some time now that the answers of both the President of the Government and ministers are very weak and very inconsistent. In this particular case, there was no answer to the question raised. Energy is, in fact, the largest investment package that will take place in the Republic of Slovenia, given that the development of rail transport has already been fully halted. And it is probably necessary to discuss how we are going to do this project either from the back or, vice versa, in the order required. I think these things need to be handled properly. The strategic council of the President of the Government should also give appropriate answers in this area, but, as we are aware, nothing has happened in this area except for the establishment of a protocol photo. And it demands that a debate be held in the National Assembly on such an important project, which is also related to some other matters decided by the Government, such as Natura 2000, is certainly extremely important and also necessary, because in this case it is a few billion euro that we will invest in various energy segments and it would be right for this National Assembly to know exactly how priorities are set, what kind of order is there, or whether there are requirements for the construction of renewable resources in general a perspective or not. Things seem to turn out differently, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Please, Lucky Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u225	Thank you so much for saying that, President. The fact is, honourable Members and Members, that the National Assembly on Natura 2000 did not need a debate at all. In fact, the protected area included all on average, and at that time even competition was held as to how much of this would be written in these projects. And that was the weakness of the then State Assembly and the then government. Today it is important projects and these important projects will probably not see the light of realization if we do not discuss it here and give them the opportunity to start building hydropower plants, Slovenian railways and other things. If we've made a mistake in the past, let's put it right in the present. There is also no exclusion of sabotage and cartel bargaining with Croats or others who are essentially hostile to Slovenia to use Natura 2000 to block Slovenia's important projects. And I think it is in the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia to hold this debate in the National Assembly. We therefore support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u226	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 39. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ivan Grilla, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Gregor Golobič, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, to the question of Mr Grill's question on the participation of the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town with Infotechna. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, there was no concrete answer to the question raised by the Minister for Higher Education, Mr Golobic, why the Ministry of Higher Education and through it, and the Government, did not give consent to the establishment of an institute with a highly reputable company with a 20-year tradition in the field of information technology. If there was any need for additional funding from the State in any way, you might also try to understand this reason. But in no way do the students understand him, he doesn't understand him at all, he doesn't understand the economy. Here, without any financial resources from the State, only the consent to establish should be given. Such an institute, which could essentially contribute to research work, especially to students who study at this university, which is also very well visited, is a state college, as I mentioned, could contribute to the great study progress of all those who would be able to explore here. That's why there's a lot of resentment here on the part of colleges, students, economies over the work of a minister. I think it would be very good to have a debate on this issue in the National Assembly, because the message that the Government, and especially the Ministry of Higher Education, gives that it does not support research work in a way that does not have to provide any financial resources, does not also signal to anyone for further benefit. Of course, here is also the issue of how much research and development is committed in this mandate is falling. It is likely that those who are inclined or in any connection with the Ministry will be able to obtain funds, but all those who are not will not receive the minimum consent that is also necessary. I expect that, above all, the coalition Members will support this proposal for this debate, because, as I have mentioned, this can contribute to the development of higher education and, above all, to the research work for all of Slovenia. He's not just going to New Town right now, he's going to Dolenjska, he's going to Slovenia. Such a sample should not, of course, be repeated in Slovenia, so I expect that we will find out through this debate where the reasons for not being able to obtain this consent from the Minister are. Nevertheless, this institute will be established in a different way, but this, as I mentioned, is not a message that can contribute to the progress of higher education anywhere in Slovenia. I hope that this proposal receives support [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u228	Thank you. Is there any other explanation on behalf of the sending groups? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? Franci Kek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u229	Thank you for your word. I will vote against this because Minister Gregor Golobič has clearly argued why he did not give his consent to the establishment of the said company. The Faculty and Infotechna may, although they do not establish d.o.o., cooperate without difficulty and expect that the university will first lead at least one generation to a diploma and then also deal with other things such as the establishment of d.o.o.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u230	Thank you very much. An explanation on my behalf, but no controversy, Mr. Grill. She's been gone so far, and I'll warn you, no controversy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u231	Of course it won't be controversial, just facts. Look, this isn't really about any status issues, or this institute is going to be d.o.o. or any other form. Should such a status form be anyhow contrary to expectations by the Ministry, of course it could also be proposed to establish a different form, that it is not a d.o.o. Here was in fact a clear message that the Ministry does not support the development of higher education in New Town. [[..]] To that end, it did not devote any resources to the development of this university. In 2008, 122 students were enrolled, 195 of them this year and 1/3 of them attend master's degree. The reason that one generation of students should finish their studies here is an empty reason. Why not allow the first generation to develop their studies also through research work, which is very important for quality study programmes, for students and, finally, for teachers, to be allowed here, of course. Certainly, as I mentioned, this institute will, of course, be established, but it is a bad message that the state does not support the issue of consent without any financial means. No one expected the State to provide the financial resources, but only the consent required by the decision. Therefore, such answers or such transfers are completely unnecessary and unacceptable to students, to me and to the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u232	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Sreč Krijava, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, to the question of Mr Friends' Meeting on the supervision and functioning of companies involved in the collection and processing of hazardous construction waste. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SNS Group Happy Friend. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is the finale Engineering company which has been carrying out construction waste disposal since 2005 under the pretext of melioration, which was also imported from Italy. The company is involved in cleaning the environment and also in the processing of construction waste. During this period in 2005, we have warned that asbestos is also being deposited in the sensitive area of the water catchment area in Izole, Piran and Kopra, which has now proved to be. And unlike my predecessors, we were very pleased with the Minister's response in the Slovenian National Party, he said how many decisions they had already issued to this company. But the fact is that this company continues to operate smoothly is that they are the winners of the coastal-internal gazelle and the winners and recipients of many state aids that can be measured in millions of euros. This is a company that continues to pollute the environment and has made a lasting environmental impact in a space that will require ten years of rehabilitation. Why the debate in the National Assembly? We simply want to know how much damage has been done in the space, given that even in the weeknik broadcast, it has been said by the director, who should accept by law the legality, that he exceeded the powers to work deeper and that in some areas he also performed melioration without proper permission. What damage is this, how long will it take to recover, and who will be responsible? We have already tabled a proposal for the introduction of a forecasting procedure. This was done on 2 August 2005, but the prosecution rejected this as unfounded or insufficiently substantiated. Today, the Environment and Space Agency notes the opposite, notes the very great damage in the environment and I am interested in who will remedy this damage, how this ecological disaster will recover and how long it will take to do so. As has already been said, the company continues to work, despite the fact that there are a number of negative decisions and the Minister himself said in this Chamber, there was little presence at the time that he exhausted all funds, he also informed the police or a colleague of the minister. I believe that the main options are not yet exhausted for the builder or director of the company, and therefore the debate in this Chamber is necessary in order to prevent further disasters. It is a water catchment area in the Kopra area, which covers the east and the Drnica River. I would therefore ask for support to find a solution together with experts from the competent state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf or on behalf of the Group of Members? Please, Dr. Luke Yuri, on your own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u235	Thank you very much. I think that the concern expressed in this proposal makes sense, but I cannot confirm such a debate because the proposal, I have also checked the issues by making unrealistic claims. I checked and the company mentioned did not receive the euro of State or European aid [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u236	Dear colleague Yuri, the controversy is no longer possible here. [[...]] You're not going to vote? Good. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 42. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ribič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Justice Minister Aleš Zalar to the question of the question of citizens on criminal proceedings. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 43. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Justice Minister Aleš Zalar to the question put by Dr Vinko Gorenak regarding the requests made for differences in the salaries of judicial officials. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Dr Vinko Gorenak
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u237	Thank you very much. I asked the minister to tell me in numbers what is going on with the judges' lawsuits for allegedly underpaid salaries in the past century, or decade. I also asked for specific numbers. I didn't get them in answer. All he said was that there were no withdrawals, but he didn't say any numbers. I have called on the Minister to try to ensure that this information is made public. If the Minister, the Secretary of State, the Member of Parliament or any of us sitting here were to sue the country, it would probably be on the front pages of the newspapers. Which is also the right thing to do. It's actually a control over us. The judicial officials are also officials, as we are, and I see no reason why their names and surnames should not be made public. Anyway, the problem is deeper. The problem may have very serious consequences for the state budget. You know that the problem arose decades ago, and more, when the National Council of Human Resources Commission, or as it has already been called, adopted a decision on the reduction of salaries for Members. As a result, salaries have also been reduced for judicial officials, judges, prosecutors and lawyers. In fact, after 10 years, if you call it that, the judges have somehow reminded themselves that it would be good to sue the state. And we have come into a situation where in the country there is no one in the individual courts to decide without being part of this decision-making issue. In my request for a vote, the Group of Members will therefore vote in favour of this debate, I refer to two important matters. Firstly, to the public announcement of Minister Zalar, and I must commend him, he publicly called on the judges, the judicial officers, to withdraw these charges. He said that they were part of these citizens, in their entry 16. 9. on the website, and to be more aware that there is a crisis in this country and that it is not possible to just sue the country for some enormous amounts. In addition, we are in a situation where, I have given a good example when we have dealt with one of the laws I have presented three persons who are suing the country and having all the same interest: that the state loses and that they themselves get, even though in a specific case the Ombudsman is supposed to step up the interests of the state. I also expect support and ask for support from the largest coalition group. On one occasion, I am grateful to their Vice-President of the National Assembly, who himself called on judicial officials to withdraw these charges. I look forward to supporting this debate. But if that doesn't work, then we act like it once, another time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u238	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 28 to 42. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. May I have your attention in the hall, please? In line with the proposal by Ambassador Alenka Jeraj, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal to Alenka Jeraj's question on the work of the police in the field of organised and economic crime. Alenke Jeraj has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u239	Thank you for your word. I asked the Minister if she had exercised any control within the framework of the work of the criminal police. We know that each other's minister does this very well and exercises control over those who are obliged to report certain things to him. The Minister did not answer my question or answer me only after I highlighted two specific cases. My question was actually about what was going on in the last year. I asked her specifically if, in the last year of the work of the criminal police, she had exercised any control or measures, given that there are many things in the public eye or that some of the actions of the criminal police that we may even have to fear, that is, the armed police at our door, who then find that they have made a mistake and come to the wrong door. In all these cases, she has not answered me, although she has also admitted and said that organised crime is a major problem, and I therefore believe that her response and the problem in general would be a broader debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u240	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, for 25, for 43. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Verlic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of the Interior, Katarina Kresal, to Dr Petr Verlic's question on transport safety. Dr Peter Verlič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u241	Thank you very much. At the end of August, I asked the Minister of the Interior a question based on police statistics for the first half of the year, which noted a deterioration in traffic safety, especially on highways, while local roads and other roads did not improve this situation. Unfortunately, tragic traffic accidents have occurred in the meantime and the Ministry of the Interior's response has been forceful, which is also right. Tragic accidents were a warning, but in writing to my question, the police were asked to analyse the results of traffic accidents and then to adjust their measures in this regard. Yesterday, the Minister frankly replied that it was true that these recent events caused this stormy response, announced some new measures, but I did not get an answer to the question of how the police had not already registered this, how the police were actually monitoring this traffic safety and whether the tragic consequences of the accidents were only those that then stimulate some responses that were in stricter legislation. In response, however, the number of accidents has decreased and it is interesting that higher penalties have also contributed to improving traffic safety. This is the point where the biggest difference, if we remember, was in the past between the then opposition and the then coalition. We propose, on behalf of the parliamentary group, that this broader debate be held in order to find the answer to that part of the question that remains unanswered: how do the police monitor the statistics on traffic accidents and how do the measures to avoid any accidents? For God forbid that an accident now occurs where we have been warned many times, where roads at toll stations do not need a house, and there will be no chain collision. Maybe now it's a warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u242	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Zvonk Černač, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Igor Lukšič to the question of protection in kindergartens. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u243	We will, of course, support the debate on this issue in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. That this is a matter to which the Minister does not know the answer has shown a debate in the National Assembly and a number of questions which have been addressed to the Minister over the past six months by many members of the coalition and the opposition. We have learned that there are currently about 3,000 children in Slovenia without kindergarten care, that trends show that this number will increase to about 5,000 children this year, which means that there are currently about 480 sections in Slovenia. This is mainly the case with children of the first age period. And the Ministry of Education and Sport in this period has not done much to alleviate this situation. It is argued that kindergarten is a matter of municipalities, that it is a matter of mayors. About half of Slovenian municipalities have problems with this, half of them do not. However, we have the Ministry of Education and Sport, within which there are several ten people in charge of implementing appropriate measures in the area of kindergarten protection. They are not paid very little, but it is true that there are funds in this area, I am talking about investments, about a million 500,000 euros. And even if they do double, this means that the resources available will not satisfy a single percentage of the needs currently recorded in the Republic of Slovenia. There are therefore no measures, therefore it would be justified in this debate to ask the Minister how it is possible that in the public debates on 17 May at the Family Festival in Postojna, he said that in Slovenia 2010 all children will have free kindergartens, when we know that the budget documents foresee what the previous government has sent, the implementation of a free kindergarten for preschool children from 1. 1. 2010 at 1. 1. 2011. There are quite a few questions that require answers. In this debate, it would be good for members of the coalition and members of the opposition to assist the minister in solving these problems, because it is more than obvious that he is unaware of the seriousness of the situation. In the context of this debate, it would be right to crystallize all the proposals that can be gathered in the guidelines for addressing this issue. One of those that has already been announced is, unfortunately, not, the provision of funds from the EU fund under the fifth call for regional development, where EUR 202 million is fully foreseen. And one of the five modules is this module, which would provide funding to community kindergartens. Unfortunately, this invitation to tender this year despite forecasts, there was no invitation to tender until 30 June, despite forecasts [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And we won't see it this year. [[...]] So on the one hand, we have the resources, we have the resources, but we do not have the operationality of the policy to ensure that these funds are used. I invite you to support this proposal for a debate [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Please, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, yesterday I had no opportunity to get an answer to my question on the same subject, because the Minister was not in the Chamber this time. I was surprised, however, by his statement in response to a question from his colleague, Mr Černač, that primary education and preschool care are a matter of municipalities, that the construction of kindergartens and primary schools is a matter of municipalities. To my written question, I received an answer in which the Minister himself states that there are 68 projects open, of which 23 projects in the 1999 invitation to tender are 68 and 17 projects in kindergarten projects. For this they have increased funds, you will not believe it, €4.84 million by 2012. This probably means a few percent of VAT alone from all investments, let alone to help build significantly. I think that this is such a broad issue and that it must be of particular interest to all the mayors and the mayors and those who are active in the municipalities, that it will become increasingly difficult if we do not have a broader discussion and together find some solution to this problem. We have information from the municipalities that we need 500 new departments worth €150 million to solve this problem. This year, they predict that 4 thousand more children will be born than they were last year. They only come to kindergarten in about a year and the problem will be even more difficult. Some parents have already sued congregations and countries for not having the opportunity to put their children in kindergarten. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] That is why I think that this broader debate should be held.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in its name Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u247	I will also support the debate on this issue. Look, it's one of the serious questions. This is also a question related to other, broader issues relating to nation growth and support for what we have seen in recent years. These trends, which occur by increasing the number of births and which go in this direction, that parents decide for two, three or more children, so it is not about single parent families, but most of this increase, these birth rates go in the direction of increasing families, should cheer us up. And responsible policies face such problems in a responsible and rapid manner. The solutions to be sought are, on the one hand, by activating the resources available, not activated by me for unknown reasons. It is not clear to me why the resources available and which should only be processed are simply not being awarded. The municipalities have projects prepared. Despite all the bureaucratic obstacles, despite the shortcomings in the process of obtaining permits and putting into space, many projects have been prepared by the municipalities, of course they need an appropriate financial incentive, which is not at the level of EUR million and half. That's how much one small municipality spends on investment potential in one year. These are not funds to be provided by the State for the implementation of the national policy on kindergarten protection. And on the other hand, there are solutions that allow for this period. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] with more flexible standards, by adapting spatial options, by choosing alternative solutions that are available, but with some change in legislation that needs to be made in order to become more operational, they allow alternatives to resolution and protection where individuals are interested, and because of inadequate regulation they do not deal with these things. [[...]] I think these are the issues that the National Assembly should face. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to communicate to the Minister, who proved yesterday and repeatedly that he does not have a vision in this field of what a vision should be and to entrust him with adopting and implementing these guidelines. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u248	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 41. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Pojbič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, to the question of Mr Pojbič's question on the ineffective functioning of labour inspectorates. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 44. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Milan Čadež, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Karl Viktor Erjavac to Milan Čadež's question on the fourth development axis. On behalf of the SDS Group, Milan Čadež has an explanation for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u249	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I have asked the Minister a question about putting the fourth development axis into space. In view of the fact that we have some work to do in the future in putting roads, various curbs and development axes into space and given that we have rather inadequate legislation, civil initiatives are emerging, which make it very difficult for us to make progress in those projects that already have a green light. I myself have come from the diocese, which has already started construction on several occasions and has also been interrupted on several occasions, mainly because of civil initiatives and because of inappropriate legislation. Given that I was not satisfied with the Minister's response, I am confident that we should discuss this here in order to move forward in order to avoid later civil initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u250	Thank you. Is there any other explanation on behalf of the sending groups? [[No, no, ……]] In his own name, Milenko Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I also support the proposal to hold a broader debate on putting the fourth development axis into space. Both colleagues of Chad and I have encountered the same problems in terms of bargaining by civil initiatives when they threaten important stages of the construction of this fourth development axis. Civil initiatives need to be separated. Some initiatives are good and may need to be taken into account and resolved in the local circle, while some aim only to block the issue in the light of local disruptions around municipal functions, around municipalities. The best was seen on the round table, which was arranged, which could also be referred to as the general assembly of the civil initiative, because the other party that is interested, especially those who suffer from unresolved traffic connections at the time of entering the Polish Valley and then towards Primorska, did not get the most affected citizens invited, but also some others visited this round table more after the oral tradition or oral invitation of those who received them. In view of the importance of the project, it is then necessary to make a distinction between constructive proposals and those with only a task of blocking time. I think that the ministry can do a lot here, and that is why I support the broad debate myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u252	Thank you very much. I'm afraid I can't explain my voice so that we can all be complete. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, for 26, for 42. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Janez Ribič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz Križanič, and the Minister of Environment and Space, Karl Viktor Erjavac, to the question of Member Janez Ribič, on the dissatisfaction of citizens with the performance of the chimney service in the Republic of Slovenia. Janez Ribič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u253	Thank you. Dear Members and Members! Many citizens are not satisfied with the chimney service, so I think it is good that we talk about this here in the National Assembly, find the right solutions, and we also arrange this area. So I'll be happy if you support me so that we can talk about this problem here as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u254	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 38. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Trofenika, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, to the question of Mr Villa Trofenik on the issue of building permits for the construction of broadband networks. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? In my own name. Does anyone want to do it on behalf of the Group of Members first? [[No, no, ……]] Then in his own name, Willy Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u255	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. On my question whether the Ministry of the Environment and Space obeys the regulation on the construction of buildings for the construction of broadband networks, the competent minister replied, quote: "I must say that the Ministry of the Environment and Space does not issue building permits, so the issue of respect for the construction of buildings is irrelevant." In the following question, he gave an additional explanation, quote: "I do not understand why you are appalled if I answer you that the Ministry of the Environment does not issue building permits when it comes to the construction of broadband networks. I must say that the Law on Electronic Communications governs the area of the construction of broadband networks and it follows from this regulation that no building permit is required." The credibility of such a minister's declaration explains, for the first time, paragraph 7 of Article 7 of the Law on Electronic Communications, which states: "Electronic communications networks and related infrastructure intended to connect to public communications networks and to perform public communications services must be constructed in accordance with the rules on the regulation of premises, the construction of facilities including its essential properties and on the protection of the environment and must operate in accordance with the applicable rules governing the safety of the electronic communications network" and so on. [[...]] And in the last paragraph, "The Inspector responsible for spatial and construction matters shall exercise control over the implementation of these decisions." The credibility of the Minister for Environment and Space's response can be judged by everyone in the situation mentioned above. I will vote in favour of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u256	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 31. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 31.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Petr Verlic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Patrick Vlačič to the question of road transport by Dr Petr Verlic. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Dr. Peter Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u257	Thank you very much. However, we share our opinions about motorists in the National Assembly, but, respected colleagues and colleagues, this activity, represented by 6,500 companies in Slovenia, is over 32,000 employees and generates 4% of GDP. The market downturn in the past year due to the consequences of the economic crisis is over 50% this year. I therefore asked the Minister of Transport: What has been done in concrete terms at this time to improve this sector? In response, the Minister of Transport listed a number of regulations, regulations, acts to help improve the automotive sector, but the answer to how these financial effects were evaluated, what does this mean in concrete terms for this sector? [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u258	Please, peace in the hall. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u259	We therefore propose that a broader debate be held in the parliamentary group to determine, in fact, that the Minister of Transport obviously did not know [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u260	I'm asking for peace in the hall. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u261	answer the fundamental question whether or not there is a crisis in road transport. [[...]] It also has a basis in the Council regulation. The Regulation of the Council of the European Parliament provides that each Member State may propose and also request the Commission to declare a crisis in road transport in a Member State. There was no answer yesterday. The Minister of Transport could not say this, so it is right to have a broader debate in the National Assembly and to find here that the Minister of Transport is actually preparing us with specific numbers that he has not produced so far and that we are here to discuss this answer and see whether or not there is a crisis in road transport in the Republic of Slovenia and whether we are proposing this to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u262	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. The vote was 27 to 44. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 33rd A-point of the agenda - this is on the basis of the demands of the group of Members, that the State Assembly decide on the decision of the College of Presidents of the State to make - a proposal for a law amending the Road Traffic Act for which the maximum permissible mass exceeds 3,500 kg. - Proposal for a Law on amendments to the Act on the Protection of Navigational Services of Air Traffic - Proposal for a Law on the Amendments to the Law on Secret Data - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Road Traffic - Proposal for amendments to the Law on Space Planning - Proposal for a Law on amendments to the Law on Public Roads and Supplements to the Law on the Registration of Public Interest in Culture and - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Composition of Agricultural Lands and Forests. The Group of Twenty-Seven Members and Members tabled a request on 12 November 2009. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers to ask Jozet Tank to explain his position or proposal. Procedural. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Dear President, I propose that we make these explanations and vote on this proposal the way we did on the questions that have been sent before: on a case-by-case basis. There we also had the first point, the question sent and the answers answered, and we were able to hold a debate and a separate vote on each proposal. As you have announced so far, however, it would logically be that all the proposals proposed for re-decision should be presented in those few minutes available, a presentation of all the requirements, and ultimately only one vote. I propose that we go as before at the point of the question and initiative of the Member States.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u264	Good. Certainly your proposal is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. After all, it is also in line with the way procedures are decided in the College. Therefore, I will first read a proposal for a law that will be decided on how to proceed, then you will explain the proposal that there is no and then the vote. We are going to consider the requirement that the proposed Toll Law should not be dealt with in a reduced procedure for vehicles whose maximum permissible weight exceeds 3,500 kilograms. Please explain this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u265	Thank you so much for saying that. The law in force, which was passed in 2008, provides that Slovenia will be with 1. 1. 2010 introduced an adjustment of the toll by the Euro Emissions Class in the free traffic with an active OBD device. This means, domestically, either by satellite or by appropriate frequency, which is permissible and permitted and prescribed by the rules of the European Union. This frequency is 5.8 mega Hertz. I would also like to point out that such a toll system is already known in Germany, they know it in Austria, and they also know it in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. This system is also introduced by countries that have until recently been at a significantly lower technological level than Slovenia. Unfortunately, after one year of this government and the work of this minister in this transport sector, there were no appropriate steps to move on tolling in the free traffic with the OBU device. Now the government has come up with a proposal to upgrade the outdated technology system that works, this is ABC, which, after the top of this, is still operating at an inadequate and illicit frequency, that is 2.45 mega Herzt. The reason that Slovenia will not take this step is probably because we have previously transferred the control of electronic communications to another ministry, that the Government has lost a lot of time at that time by transferring these matters and transferring the control of this system from transport to science and technology. But apparently there was another problem. In spite of the fact that the Group of Members took part in the presentation of this electronic toll, this was probably not possible in the short term, not at all, since this should have been carried out in an open contract or through a call for tender. However, the procedure now introduced by the Government is such that this change and this improvement of this toll will be upgraded without a call for tender, only with some additional parts. And there will be no competition here, there will be no additional offer and the costs of upgrading this system will be after these phases, we can say, enormously higher than they would be if they introduced an established system that they already have in place in the countries I have mentioned. Given that there will be no public call for this to be done in some agreed manner, we can also expect that this will not be transparent, and Slovenia will certainly continue to slip on the transparency scale. Not only for about five, six cities, as it happened this year, but for a lot more cities than it was this year. In the parliamentary group, we propose that the National Assembly decide again on the procedure approved by the College. We propose that this law, because it makes difficult changes, because it also ignores the Public Procurement Act, is completely eliminated, but it will be large amounts, high upgrade costs, to decide that this procedure is not confirmed. However, it would be even better for the Government to withdraw this bill from the legislative process and introduce an initial solution, namely to tolling and fixing, to adjust the amount of toll in relation to the euro-emission class in free traffic with an active OBD device, not in the way it now introduces it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u266	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the decision of the College without discussion and explanation of vote. I shall put to the vote the following decision: The proposal for a bill amending the Toll Code for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3500 kilograms shall be dealt with in a reduced procedure. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 26. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the decision of the College has been confirmed. At the request of a group of Members, we are moving on that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the provision of air navigation services following a reduced procedure. I ask Mr Tank to present the proposal for a re-decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u267	Thank you so much for saying that. This novel is also proposed by the Government on short notice for several reasons. One reason is that it came into time distress because it did not make the appropriate adjustments required in this year. The second reason why this proposal cannot be considered in a simplified procedure is that the amendment has 31 articles. That's just as many articles as the law that is now in force. In this case, it is no longer a minor adjustment or a minor amendment of the law in a smaller number of articles, but it is a correction of the whole text of the law. I am sorry that fellow Members sitting in the College representing the parliamentary groups are passing on such a reasoned matter. It is obvious that no rule of procedure in the National Assembly applies, but neither to the Government nor to those departments that have lawyers at the head of their departments. How, then, should we implement the rule of law in the National Assembly and in this country, if even lawyers, ministers, act in a way that ignores the rules in force in this country and makes decisions that are contrary to the acts by which these decisions should be dealt with? This is the principle of replacing the existing law. If we replace 31 articles of 31, then the law is entirely replaced by a new text of the law. In this case, it is normal and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to deal with such a law on a regular basis. However, the Government could have proposed it following an emergency procedure if it was to resolve some cases that threatened the functioning of the State, but that was not the case in this case. I propose that the National Assembly decide on this procedure, and even in the future, I propose that the Government and colleagues participating in the College of the President of the National Assembly take these confirmations of procedures, both urgent and shortened, more seriously and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that we have in the National Assembly and which we are to work on. This law does not have any conditions to be dealt with in the short term. Blue lights were on at the Ministry, and the minister again decided to rush on the wrong side of the road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u268	Thank you very much. I put to the vote the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the provision of air navigation services shall be dealt with in a simplified manner. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 25. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 25.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The assembly will consider that proposal for a law following a reduced procedure. At the request of a group of Members, we move that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider the proposal for a law amending the Law on Secret Data following a reduced procedure. Explanation of the re-decision proposal. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u269	Thank you so much for saying that. This law has great consequences, great substantive consequences, and other consequences. In this case, we will deal with the short procedure of a law transferring the decision to carry out the verification of work permits with classified information from the police, which can be said to be an independent expert body acting by law to a ministry that is typically a political body. Given that a whole range of data, such as credit data, the financial situation of the applicant or relatives, diseases, movable, immovable property, foreign residence and other data, is checked before the authorisation is granted, it is clear that such data will be transferred from the police to the Ministry, especially if it is transferred to the Cabinet of the Minister or the future Minister, means that each policy will have a direct view of all confidential information about those subject to verification. There's about 1,600 officials like that. This means that in this particular case, the Liberal Democracy, which has such a minister and the Secretary of State, will have full insight into all these matters as regards the verification of these data. We estimate that there are no substantive, financial or political reasons for such a change, such a difficult change, such a major change. We are of the opinion that this procedure for carrying out checks for issuing secret information work permits should remain where it is, that is, on the police. Even if we do so, such a change cannot take place quietly in a limited, shortened procedure, but if such a discussion occurs, then we can do so through a normal procedure, even in the general debate. Moreover, we believe that this law requires a change to another law, whose amendment is not proposed, perhaps even the Government Act. However, there is probably a reason for this silent and so simplified change, particularly in that it will make some reason for it to interfere with the police law and make changes there, as predicted. This is, in fact, the work being done and the arguments for such a change are being drawn up. Once again, I propose that we think carefully about whether this law meets the conditions for dealing with the short-term procedure, especially since, by doing so, I would say, a look at all the data in which the policy has not yet been examined and carried out exclusively by the police. I propose that you support the re-decision proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u270	Thank you very much. I would like to ask that the proposals do not interfere with other parliamentary groups. There is no debate, no explanation of vote, so the affected cannot respond. I would therefore like to ask that we focus on explaining why a reduced procedure is proposed or not proposed. I shall put to the vote the following decision; the proposal for a law amending the Law on Secret Data shall be dealt with in a simplified procedure. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 41 to 28. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the decision has been taken and that the assembly will therefore consider that proposal in the short term. At the request of the Group of Members, we are moving on that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Spatial Planning Act following a reduced procedure. I ask for a justification for the re-decision proposal. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Look, this law is, like those who have now been dealt with, proof that something in the executive branch is not working. Rather than allowing the government and the services administered by the Government to act in a timely manner to adopt laws and regulations, the Government comes with solutions that prolong or prolong certain matters in the past. This law is the law governing the procedures for the preparation of municipal spatial acts, spatial plans so-called KPN. Instead of obtaining the consent of the municipalities to continue regulating their premises by searching for investors in order to start using their development potentials and so on, all municipalities, except five or six, are forced to withdraw these spatial acts from the process if they do not wish to be rejected by the Ministry. Instead of sanctioning the law or the Government those who have not prepared the relevant acts and grounds for spatial acts, it sanctions the municipalities, no fault of the congregation. This law also substantially changes the position of space regulators. In particular, this law allows those who did not have their bases designed to be returned after the completion of the procedure after all stages of consideration in the municipal council, public presentations and so on as mandatory co-legislators. As a result, the municipalities will be forced to amend the acts in the re-trial procedure. This will certainly bring additional costs to the municipalities and also, as I said, a great deal of delay. All those acts and laws that directly affect the municipalities and have consequences in municipal budgets should also be given a preliminary opinion to the municipalities. And you didn't set that thirty-day deadline, Mr. President of the National Assembly. This law violates one fundamental provision that matters affecting municipalities directly, and this law certainly has them because it intervenes retroactively in the preparation of spatial acts, bring ex-post and additional financial obligations to the municipalities; you simply did not put this law into a re-trial procedure. Unfortunately, this law will only earn those houses that will prepare the spatial basis. Here, according to the size of the congregation, there will be between a few tens to several hundred thousand additional costs for each municipality, which will have to resume its spatial planning process. There will be a delay of about two years, and I believe that it is necessary to re-decision this process, because it probably does not have to be specifically said that, in the way we deal with space and other matters, we cannot contribute to a better, more rational, cheaper and more transparent work. I suggest you support the proposal for a regular procedure. In this case, however, it would have been much better if the Government had taken action against those space regulators that are in its composition and had not prepared appropriate basis in time for the construction of municipal spatial plans. That's a great deal. And now with an act that is retroactive, you try to do this in the short term, without any necessary and appropriate treatment in the National Assembly. I suggest you support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u272	Thank you very much. I put to the vote the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Spatial Planning Act shall be dealt with in a simplified manner. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 27. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the decision has been taken and that the assembly will therefore consider that proposal in the short term. Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u273	Mr President, I note that you have adopted important system laws for consideration following a reduced procedure. Mr President, I warn you, this is your mistake. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u274	Mr Jerovšek, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u275	Yeah, I'll make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u276	Please. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u277	Mr President, I propose that you stop this farce so that we do not take this country and the National Assembly to restrict democracy, so that we will have octrogen laws in this country. System laws have always been adopted according to normal procedure. The scandal of the first kind is that we adopt such laws in this way. This coalition, if it's somewhere else [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u278	Comrade Jerovšek, this is a second warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u279	Mr President, I suggest you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u280	This is not a procedural proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u281	It's procedural, for democracy. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u282	If I were to follow your words to break this farce, I should have taken your word by now. Please close [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u283	It's actually a farce to do now. I suggest you stop this procedure and we go to the system laws into some normal procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u284	It's a novelty of the law, not a system law. Thank you very much. At the request of a group of Members, we move that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads following a reduced procedure. Please explain the proposal. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u285	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. The conclusion of colleague Jerovská that the spatial planning law is a system law is correct. And also the change that is, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u286	Comrade Tank, please don't compromise.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u287	is extremely important and has a retroactive effect by extending the deadlines, by post-introduction of the carriers of the premises, with subsequent burdens on the municipalities. [[...]] And it is also the basis for the opinion of municipalities within 30 days for such a law. As regards the existing law, this is the third law proposed by the Ministry of Transport following a reduced procedure. This law also regulates matters which have not been settled throughout the year of operation within a quarter of the term of office of that Minister. The law is trying to regulate certain matters with a simplified procedure, which should be dealt with and already adopted by the Ministry. And we're putting out the things that have happened because of the non-action in this term. This law is also largely related to the Tolls Act, which we have dealt with and which has been decided today. And here again we can see that it is a problem that satellite or tolling at an appropriate frequency in this year until 1.1.2010 has not been implemented. The reasons for this may be that there have been significant changes in the Government Act during this period, that entire segments of electronic tolling and electronic communications have been transferred from the Transport Department to the Higher Education Department. That must have caused a lot of problems in this process. We can note that this toll system, which should in principle be abandoned from 1.1.2010, will be upgraded beyond the call for tenders, agreed between the partners involved in this process. And it is certainly not possible to get a good solution, not a good solution, and not a cheap solution, past competition. This approach is written on the skin of those who are used to working in a non-transparent way. Unfortunately, we can only fear that, in this case, there may be business connections in addition to some family, related links, so that the whole coalition is engaged in regulating electronic activity on the highway system. I propose that you support the request for re-decision and that this law be dealt with on a regular basis. I did not agree that at the end of the year when the government found that important things were missing, it provided for 11 or 13 laws at the December session following a reduced procedure, just to meet the quota and statistics, not the content. And if these 13 laws, which we will deal with after a reduced procedure at the December session, would not be, we would have only a mandate-electing issue, some ratifications and the end of the session. The reflection of how the system works, how the Government works, is actually that we only deal with urgent procedures, because we need to settle something quickly, because we have been delayed so far throughout the year, or we are saving it for some short process, when no debate is actually possible, no serious amendment and virtually nothing can be reconciled so that only a coalition of knocks can do as it goes. I propose that you support the motion for re-decision and that we deal with this law on a regular basis. However, the President-in-Office would ask you if your colleagues who are visiting me in the SD Group remind you that I am not disturbed when I explain why the Group of Members has also decided to do so. I'd like to ask you nicely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u288	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like, Sir Tanko, to remind you once again that we would like to suggest that the law should not be dealt with in a reduced manner, explain in its formal characteristics and that, if possible, you are already going into the very contents of the law. I did not interrupt you, but I would really like to point out that you are careful at this stage of discussion about these laws or procedures, so to speak. But as for peace in the Chamber, I am generally and at all asking my colleagues and colleagues that they are gathered and that they allow the speakers to say what they want, unless of course I interrupt them. I therefore put to the vote the following decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Public Roads shall be dealt with in a reduced procedure. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 26. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the decision has been taken and the National Assembly will therefore consider that proposal for a law following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the request of the Group of Members that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture following a reduced procedure. Mr Jože Tanko will present the reasons for the re-decision proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u289	Thank you for your word, Madam President. If this is a matter of public interest - public interest in the field of culture, then even a well-founded and normally expected public debate on such a text would also be expected. And this would probably also be required if the current Minister, a member of the National Assembly in the opposition, had always been general in the previous term in similar laws, and if necessary, even a public debate. Now it's all changed for once. Why the Government proposes this law after a reduced procedure is evident from the letter sent by the Minister today, as it states: The Republic of Slovenia has received an official notice from the European Union concerning Article 46 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. Which means that this year, in this area, the Government and the Minister have done nothing to resolve this matter, as it has been imposed. It's not the only case in this department, but it's important. Another reason why this law should be dealt with on a regular basis is that it brings great changes to this area of culture. One of the important provisions is regulated or not regulated, poorly regulated by the area of transfers of cultural objects or so-called transfers to management or seizure. Here we need to find out, no matter what you say, that the criteria are incomplete and leave behind and allow for incredible manipulation. In some environments, such as the case of the Ljubljana Municipality, it can be agreed, by the way, that an important institution is transferred from local community to the Ministry and, in another case, to the Ministry, despite the fact that an institution fulfils all the tendering conditions, it does not even cover it and does not finance it. We have cases like this. And in this case there will also be violations of the real law code and major problems in the implementation of this law, as well as in the relevant entries in the land book. One of the important issues that this law also deals very superficially with is the granting of the status of societies in the public interest. This, too, would probably require a broader debate, some regular procedure. As is now envisaged, this status of the company in the public interest will be distributed without the criteria prescribed, without proper functioning, without any prior verification procedures, etc. Here, with such a solution, there is a great deal of opportunity for the Ministry to approach the direct financing of various newly established societies in the public interest. There may be these, and it will probably be, and there will be large consequences in particular, because in such cases, when things are not set, when there is no norm, there will also be divisions on yours and ours. There will be some societies that will be financed in some of the spheres of interest. Others, who will also act in the public interest, will have significant difficulties in obtaining funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u290	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u291	The law also, as I mentioned in the introduction, does not provide any appropriate solutions in the area of self-employment. This is for what the government has been reminded of. I think that the consideration of the amendment of the Law on Public Interest in Culture should be carried out on a regular basis with an appropriate general discussion. And if necessary, also with an appropriate public presentation of the opinions. This would probably be necessary because of the title of the law and the content it brings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u292	Thank you very much. I put to the vote the following decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the exercise of public interest in culture shall be dealt with in a simplified procedure. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 27. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the decision has been taken and that the assembly will therefore consider that proposal in the short term. At the request of a group of Members, I turn to the National Assembly to decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia following a reduced procedure. Please explain the re-decision proposal. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! At the July meeting of the National Assembly, we proposed a law on agricultural land. Here it was said by the coalition Members that the Government would arrive by the end of August with some solutions, with some agricultural issues, so that we would have the opportunity to deal with these matters in a different way, in order to come up with systemic proposals. None of this happened. However, a new law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, which the Government has not aligned with any of the stakeholders, has taken place. Here all those who have been summoned in some way are protesting, which is also concerned by this field of action. Worse still, this law brings major systemic changes. This is where the Fund's Supervisory Board is suspended. It is said that this function, which has been so far, and this body, which has so far been, has been abolished and the National Assembly is also completely eliminated. For the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands has regularly reported on the operation of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests each year. Once this body is abolished, the management of this fund will be fully subordinated to the Government and the Government, who will then report to the National Assembly, not to a body that has been appointed to oversee the work of the Fund and the execution of the tasks in accordance with it, but to the Government that will redesign it in its own way. In the case of this law there is also a transfer [[....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] . It is said that there is also a reorganisation [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u294	Comrade Tank, you're talking about content. We'd like to find out why you think this is not a proper way of dealing with it. Intruder [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u295	Mr President, you may need to read the Rules of Procedure which provides for the consideration of laws following a reduced procedure. The Rules of Procedure expressly stipulate that only laws which constitute minor changes, repealing a law or something similar may be dealt with after a reduced procedure. However, when laws bring major systemic changes, it is not possible, however, to treat the honourable President of the National Assembly differently from the ordinary or urgent procedure. I already explained that to you today. What we have in the Rules of Procedure has to be truly respected here. If a reorganisation is made, if the powers are transferred, if the supervisory function of the National Assembly is abolished, if the authorities of the institution are removed, yes, it is no minor change. If the division and the change in the division of concessions are tolerated, these are not minor changes. These are fundamental changes to the Law on Agricultural Lands or the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. I hope that those of you who read the Rules of Procedure and run a coalition in the National Assembly are at least so judgmental that we will be able to put together what goes on in the short term and what doesn't. Otherwise, we don't need a copy of the Rules of Procedure. Rules that we don't need to work for the National Assembly. If not, all the procedures and cases that are important will be agreed by the National Assembly "under the lisp" and the College no longer needs to be invoked. Dear President, we have proposed that the procedure be reconsidered because we believe that this violates the rules of business in full. You can read the business provisions if I don't read them, when some law can be dealt with in a reduced procedure. However, in cases where this is not the case, it is the automation of the law to be dealt with on a regular basis or under special conditions under an emergency procedure. However, in the case of fundamental substantive changes, it is not possible for this law, unless the coalition so decides, to be treated differently from on a regular basis. This cannot be done after a reduced procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u296	Thank you very much. In accordance with Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure, the College also took a decision on the reduced procedure. You have proposed that this be decided again at the plenary session of the assembly. That's what happened. You have had the opportunity to explain your proposal and my task is to put to the vote a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is being considered following a reduced procedure. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. Procedural. Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u297	Thank you. Let me just procedurally base the matter. The reduced procedure may be where there are less difficult amendments and amendments to the law, the termination of an individual law, less difficult harmonisation of the law with other laws in relation to the European Union, or because amendments are necessary because of the Constitutional Court's request. None of this is in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-17-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u298	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. If we had said this in the justification of the proposal earlier, it would have been significantly better to have a clear and clear position. Thank you very much. I think that your proposal has been professionally very clearly and well-founded, why it is not dealt with in the short term. It's up to you and your colleagues to decide. I therefore put to the vote a proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is being examined in a reduced procedure. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 27. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the decision has been taken and that the assembly will therefore consider that proposal in the short term. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 11th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you so much and good night.
