ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u1	We continue the meeting of the National Assembly, which was suspended on Thursday 29 January 2009. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Dara Lavtijar Bebler, Franci Kek, Tsvetka Zalokar Orazem and Jakob Preseknik from 17:00 on. I say hello to everyone who's here! We move on to the 12th item of the agenda, which is the decision on the proposal for a law on ratification of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Albania to the North Atlantic Treaty. We're before the vote. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of the voting device, namely, an orange light must be lit on the right side of the card. In doing so, I inform you that the law will be adopted if two thirds of all Members vote for it, 60 or more. Please gather in the hall. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty. Mr. President, did you want procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear government representatives, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! I have a procedural proposal that goes like this. In opening, I would like to explain that today, in the interest of protecting the territorial integrity of the Republic of Slovenia in the process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO and to avoid the subsequent legislative referendum, a proposal for a decision on non-recognition of the rules of the Republic of Croatia which violate the territorial integrity of the Republic of Slovenia has been tabled in the parliamentary procedure. Let me stress that we have also tabled a similar decision, as we have proposed today, which we have put into the parliamentary procedure, at the Foreign Policy Committee meeting, but the Committee, by a majority of votes, has unfortunately rejected it and cannot therefore be tabled at point 13. A slightly corrected decision has been tabled today and we therefore propose the following procedure. Today, the National Assembly should not discuss and decide on this point; however, the adjourned meeting for the consideration of this proposal for a decision and, following the request for an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee shall meet at an extraordinary meeting to decide on it at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and then to move back to the continuation of the meeting, the current meetings, the National Assembly and the 13th item on this meeting. Therefore, I propose procedurally that the National Assembly decide that point 13 should be postponed, that it should be suspended and that it should be decided in respect of point 13. So this is like the first proposal or that this point is transferred to the next meeting, which, of course, may be in the coming week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u3	Thank you very much. So you have proposed, under Article 73, paragraph 3, that the meeting be suspended. Is that what you're suggesting? Thank you. Would the representatives of the parliamentary groups like to talk about this? No, no, no. If we are not coming So, I apologize, there is no debate on this proposal, that is the Rules of Procedure. [[...]] We're moving to a vote, to a decision. We therefore decide on the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party's Group to suspend the meeting and to meet with the Committee on Foreign Affairs to consider their proposal for a decision and to continue this meeting later. [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] I interrupt the session for five minutes to train the voting apparatus. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u4	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We're continuing our adjourned session. I am informed that the voting apparatus is qualified and that I am putting to the vote the proposal of the head of Mr Jakob Preseknik's parliamentary group under Article 73, third paragraph, that the meeting be suspended. We will first vote on this proposal. If you have any more, you'll let me know. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present and 11 votes against 72 Members and Members. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 72.]] The proposal was not adopted. Mr. President. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u5	Thank you so much for saying that. Therefore, given that the previous proposal has not been adopted, I propose that the National Assembly postpone the debate in accordance with Article 74 to one of the following meetings and, in the meantime, address the proposal we have put forward, a proposal for a decision which I will read, if you will allow me, if you will. "The Republic of Slovenia does not recognise the rules of the Republic of Croatia which violate the territorial integrity of the Republic of Slovenia and change the situation on land and at sea on the day 25. 6. 1991. On this day, Slovenia had unlimited access to the open sea and, among other things, controlled the entire Bay of Piran, the hamlets on the left bank of Dragonje and the territory on the left bank of Mure near Hotiz. The activities of the Croatian Land Army and the Navy in these areas are not permitted by the Republic of Slovenia." Such a proposal for a decision has been tabled in the parliamentary procedure, and if we want this proposal for a decision to be adopted by the National Assembly, we must postpone the consideration of today's 13th item to the next meeting, which may be very soon, and in the meantime we must also proceed with the submission of a proposal submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Of course, I will put this proposal, which is put to the vote in accordance with Article 74. In this case, of course, parliamentary groups have the opportunity to make a statement on this proposal, i.e. they have 3 minutes. Is there any parliamentary group that would like to make a statement on this? Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Zmago Jelinčič Trimeniti. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will, of course, support this in our party's parliamentary group. I'd love to. Otherwise, we expected the people's party to vote differently than it did. But it's okay. For once, they woke up and voted or proposed something that was right. I think we need to get some clean wine here in the National Assembly. There's too much misdirection, there's too much half-information, there's too much misinformation, there's too much unrealistic facts, there's too much lies. It would be about time we took some time to think about things together and put what we have on the table. If the Government does not have specific documents, it can be obtained at other addresses, at other levels, at other positions. And I think it would make sense to do this, to wait, to go with a little more sober head in such important decisions that Slovenia takes part of sovereignty, part of integrity and its own autonomy. I don't think we can just let someone jump into the NATO Pact when its statehood is based on the Ustakian past, which was an ally of Nazism throughout World War II. After all, we cannot agree to destroy the European postulate of democracy based on the fight against Nazism. If anyone says that Germany is in the NATO Pact, we can say that Germany has been denified, Croatia has not been, Croatia has been privileged in the former Yugoslavia, and because of various arrangements between Titus and the allies has somehow settled down to continue to cultivate its Ustakian momentum. This momentum also appeared in the early 1990s when Mr Mesic, as a representative of Croatian foreign policy in one speech in Australia, said that Croatia was the only country to have won World War II twice, for the first time on 10 April 1941, when it entered a triple pact with Hitler, Mussolini and Hirohit, and the second time at the end of World War II. And let's not let her win on the same basis of Nazism for the third time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? No, no, no. So we are voting on the procedural proposal of the Slovenian People's Party's Group that the 13th item be moved to one of the following meetings. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 73. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 73.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. We're moving on. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. The President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Last April, NATO allies, including the Republic of Slovenia, decided to invite two countries, Albania and Croatia to join the Alliance. Slovenia has already decided on Albania today, and let me express its satisfaction at its decision as it is. We are now awaiting a decision on Croatia's entry into NATO. Like all other allies, this high house will also ratify the Protocol, allowing this country to be invited to the next summit in the spring of this year as a full-fledged member. As stated, April was issued by all allies, including the Republic of Slovenia. During the accession negotiations between April and July last year, there were no reasons why the previous government would object to Croatia's invitation to NATO. This situation has not changed since July of last year. I think that the previous government acted wisely when it did not propose ratification at the pre-election time. The new government made the right decision when it proposed, immediately after its inauguration, that both protocols, including this, be sent to ratification and decision-making in order for Slovenia to fulfil its promises to the allies in April last year. The National Assembly was allowed to look at the documentation of these accession negotiations, and probably the majority, like the Government, found that there were no reservations about not deciding on Croatia's membership in relation to NATO today. Let me be very clear - I, like the rest of the documentation, took a close look at it. If I had personally assessed that there is anything in it that would compromise our national interests, I would have said it out loud and consulted in the Government and with representatives of parliamentary groups and parliamentary parties on what to do in this case. I didn't find any such reservations in the paperwork. And now, the most important thing that concerns the ratification of the protocol on Croatia's entry into NATO. For Croatia to enter the European Union, it is necessary to align the legal order of the candidate with the legal order of the European Union. If a candidate enters the Union then no legal order is required. That's a big difference. Therefore, there is also a large difference in the documentation sent during the accession negotiations of the candidate to the European Union and to the NATO Alliance. If, according to my information, the Republic of Croatia has so far sent 40,000 pages of documentation, there are some 100 or less during the accession negotiations. Certainly, there is nothing in these documents that the National Assembly, which today will decide on ratification, should consider as a reservation not to decide on ratification. And now the political dimension of the matter. Slovenia concluded in October of last year and December of last year that, due to the documentation submitted by the Republic of Croatia in negotiations with the European Union, it had reservations and had reasonable reasons to do so, it does not have these reasons. We have no reservations. If we decided today that the ratification of the Protocol on Croatia's entry into NATO would not be confirmed, it would be between the allies in NATO, but also in the international community, that Slovenia is in a position to obstruct Croatia's integration into international institutions from caprica. This is not the case with Slovenia, but with Croatia's negotiations with the European Union for legitimate reasons to protect its national interests. In this case, they are not at risk, so the National Assembly has every reason to decide today, with a two-thirds majority, to ratify this Protocol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. I give the floor to the President, Mr Ivo Wigel, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u11	Dear Mr President, Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 2nd regular meeting on 22.1.2009 and 1st of the 2nd regular meeting on 26.1.2009, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Protocol on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which, in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, had no comments. With regard to the majority necessary for the ratification of the bill, however, it considered that the Protocol should be adopted on the basis of Article 3a(1) of the Constitution, i.e. by a two-thirds majority vote of all Members. Pursuant to Article 10 of the North Atlantic Treaty, its Parties may, by agreement, invite any other European State capable of upholding the principles of this Treaty and contributing to the security of the North Atlantic area to accede to the Treaty. The presidents of the countries and governments, including Slovenia, thus invited Croatia in April 2008 at the summit meeting of NATO in Bucharest to start the gradual talks for NATO membership. On 23 May 2008, the Permanent Representatives of the Member States of NATO confirmed the text of the Protocol governing the procedure for the integration of Croatia into NATO. The initiative to sign the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy at its 39th meeting on 1 July 2008, followed by the signing of the Protocol by permanent representatives concerning Next on 9 July 2008. Once all NATO Member States have ratified the Protocol, the Secretary-General of NATO will, on behalf of all the Parties, send an invitation to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to enter the North Atlantic Treaty. Croatia's famous admission to NATO is scheduled to take place at the NATO Summit in Strasbourg and Kehl in April 2009. At its meeting, the Committee on Foreign Policy also took note of the opinion of the State Council, which states that the National Assembly should postpone the decision on the ratification of the Protocol to a later date, taking into account reservations arising from open issues of relations with Croatia. The meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy was attended by the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, together with the Minister of Defence, Dr Ljubico Jelusic, and the Foreign Minister, Mr Samuel Žbogar. Representatives of the Government stressed that the membership of neighbouring Croatia in NATO is also in the strategic interest of our country. 22. 1. The Committee suspended the meeting before adopting a decision requiring the Government and the competent ministry, pursuant to Article 45 of the Rules of Procedure, to submit to the National Assembly accession documentation and any relevant documents on the basis of which the National Assembly may assess whether the candidate for a Member in NATO respects and accepts the values and conditions for admission to NATO. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also delivered the required documentation to the National Assembly. Follow-up to the 26th meeting. 1. At the end of the discussion, 2009 the Committee voted on all the articles together. By an appropriate majority, by 16 votes to three, the Committee adopted all the articles of the draft law. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes that the draft law on the ratification of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty be adopted in the present text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Roberto Battelli has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. [[...]] Mrs Janja Klasinc has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u13	Dear Mr President, Mr President of the Government, Foreign Minister, other representatives of the Government, esteemed colleagues. The process of ratifying the Protocol on the Crossing of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty has aroused a great deal of interest both at home and abroad in the light of current developments. Unfortunately, not in a positive light, but in the light of the amazement and disapproval of the various fraudulent manoeuvres of the opposition, which are not in the interests of Slovenia. That is why the Group of Social Democrats has taken a different, responsible and with the utmost attention to all elements of ratification, as well as to the entire political context of the Republic of Croatia's accession to NATO. In the context of the approximation of Croatia, we would like to draw attention in particular to the following. On 2 May 2002, Albania, Croatia and Macedonia signed the Adriatic Charter, which meant political and military support for NATO to these countries in their transformation and civilian control of military forces. Last April, at the NATO Summit in Bucharest, all members, including Slovenia, agreed with the invitation to join Albania and Croatia, while Macedonia's entry was unfortunately opposed by Greece. The declaration adopted by the NATO Summit in Bucharest specifically warned that it invited Albania and Croatia, quote: "marks the beginning of a new chapter in the Western Balkans." The stability of the Western Balkans, including Croatia, is also in the special interest of the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me to mention another of our commitments, from the 21st point of the declaration from Bucharest, which says that the ratification process must be completed without delay. So much for the comments and thoughts of some members of the opposition that ratification is in no hurry and we have until April. The truth is the other way around. The timetable adopted by NATO foresees: the decision on ratification in the Member States, also in Slovenia, by the end of February, the extradition of ratified protocols to the depositary in Washington in March and the solemn inclusion of new members at the NATO Summit on 3 and 4 April. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I am talking about a timeline that is an expression of our commitments and which this country has adopted in the mandate of the former Prime Minister, Janez Janša. Respect for the international obligations of a country is, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, a matter of state credibility, regardless of which political option is in power. The suspension of the ratification process would be understandable only if there were some new knowledge or facts that would be detrimental to our country. Some Members pointed out the possibility that Croatia's accession documentation would also contain maps that prejudge the border between Slovenia and Croatia. In order to remove any confusion or doubt, the President of the Government, Mr Pahor, has offered us an opportunity to familiarise ourselves with the documents that our countries own regarding Croatia's entry into NATO. It was this view that allowed all interested Members to make it clear that there were no maps of Slovenia or Croatia in those documents. If Slovenia is to maintain the reputation and credibility it has created in its 18 years of existence, we must maintain consistency in decision-making even when we are being burdened by some countries. In this case, Croatia is facing unresolved border issues, which are also the subject of our temporary suspension of Croatia's negotiations when it joins the European Union. However, NATO membership has nothing to do with unresolved border issues, but requires the fulfilment of other criteria, democratic principles, military competence and parliamentary and civilian control over armed forces. Nat’s experts, including Slovenians, find that Croatia fully meets these conditions. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, in the Group of Social Democrats we express our conviction that the ratification of the protocol on Croatia's entry into NATO is justified, useful and in favour of Slovenia, so we will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grims on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, a very nice greeting to all on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors! When we talk about the relationship, we still encounter too often in Slovenia the assumption that it is only a military relationship, but in fact the NATO relationship is much more. NATO is a link between countries that share common values, including individual freedom, respect for the rule of law, respect for trust in law, and democracy, which is the fundamental assumption of NATO. In line with its objectives, NATO puts first the welfare of everyone it wants to achieve with greater security in the mutual solidarity system of all members. And since it is an organisation that has incorporated democracy into its foundation, it is also a way in which it makes its decisions, because all decisions concerning NATO are taken unanimously. When it comes to making decisions about NATO, the voice of Slovenia is completely equivalent to the voice of the only world superpower to the United States of America. But in Slovenia too often forgets something: the great power given by such a decision-making method is also a great responsibility. As a result, rules that are not written apply to NATO, but are expected to comply with those rules if each Member wishes to be respected and respected in a consistent manner. One of them is to act responsibly; that is, when a process is initiated, some decision is that if no new facts do not appear, it respects the original decision. So don't change your decision like that, Balkan, from today to tomorrow. Slovenia has, in fact, already twice decided to include Croatia in NATO liaison in the National Assembly within the competent committee when it confirmed its views, and these views were practically unanimously confirmed twice in the previous mandate. Many of you have expressed reservations, reservations, concerns in recent days. But the time for these concerns, which were mainly principled and very little specific in nature, was when this trip began when it was the first time that Croatia was invited to join NATO. Today there is only one point on the i and today there is only one point on the i and today there is a moment ahead of us to see if any new facts have been identified that could reasonably mean that we should change our decision. In the SDS Group, after a thorough examination of all the facts available, we can only find out that there are no such new facts and that we will therefore vote in the SDS Group in accordance with the established NATO liaison standards, so we will respect the word once already given. For this reason and because we firmly believe that more security and more stability to achieve prosperity for all in the Slovenian vital interest have been voted in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u17	Honourable Members and Members, Honourable President, Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Minister. Indeed, there is no doubt about this: it supports the ratification of the Protocol on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty and will vote in favour of this ratification today. In the Group of Members, we really believe that Slovenia, as a responsible, full-fledged member of the United Nations of the European Union, ODS and NATO, as a member of the Western Balkans to stabilise the situation, for good and safe conditions in the Adriatic region and for good and partnership relations with all neighbouring countries, we see no reason to delay the ratification of such a protocol. Ratification means that we also allow Croatia and at the same time require it to assume all rights and all responsibilities and responsibilities arising from full membership in relation to NATO. It is well known that we really accept different opinions on the role and strategy of the Atlantic Union. And it is known that some in the past also opposed Slovenia's membership in NATO. Opinions on this are different in our client. In total, we did not want and do not want any new member and at least Slovenia to increase the costs for military purposes. Some of us did not agree with NATO membership, but this was adopted by the referendum in Slovenia, and this democratic decision must not only be acknowledged but also respected; we are well aware of that. While it is very clear to all that cooperation within the military and political union, NATO also makes it possible to strengthen the partnership between individual countries. For this reason, there are two countries that are members of NATO, which have been in a serious conflict in the past also due to border issues at sea. I am talking about Greece and Turkey, which are an interesting example of cooperation within this relationship and also of increasing mutual trust. That's what this is about. Therefore, we think it is good if, in relation to NATO, as many neighbouring countries as possible are working towards normalisation and sustainable cooperation in the Adriatic and Western Balkan region. Finally, I should like to point out that in the Group of Members, we really want to move as quickly as possible beyond all the obstacles that precipitate a deadlock in Croatia's negotiations with the European Union. And Croatia's entry into NATO, however, is a clear message, a political message in favour of finding suitable solutions and bridging all problems. Therefore, we will certainly vote in favour and in the hope that the two-thirds majority will also be assured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u19	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, Foreign Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The DeSUS Group will support the ratification of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO. In view of the current behaviour of the Republic of Croatia, which is in conflict with the four countries when it comes to border issues, there may be a number of reasons why we should reject, delay or even prevent this ratification, but on the other hand there are a number of arguments that support our positive decision on this issue and support the accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO. We must say that in the DeSUS Group we expect only NATO membership to raise the level of political culture in relation to neighbouring countries in the Republic of Croatia, which will sooner or later have to realize that it is not always right when it solves a cross-border issue with unilateral moves and with a breach of all the agreements reached between us, for example, and Croatia in the past period. That is why it is right to support the Republic of Croatia. In view of the fact that we will allow her to join NATO, we will also impose on her a kind of responsibility in ensuring peace, stability and security in this part of the Balkans as well as in Europe. We will allow it to assume a certain responsibility in providing its units in international missions in crisis hotspots, so that it will not only be our thing and the thing involved so far, but also their thing. We believe that by entering NATO, and our support for this matter, will in fact harm all those forces in Croatia that advocate extreme positions in relation to the Republic of Slovenia and hinder more peaceful solutions to the favored part of Croatian politics. For this reason, it is right to take the wind from the cores of these backward forces in the neighbouring country and to allow Croatia to understand that Slovenia has never been incorrect in relations, except when it comes to vital national interests, when it comes to the unfair understanding of matters of the division of the Piran Gulf or border issues and of the pending or disputed areas. The problem so far has been that Croatia has taken from the Drnovšek-Račan agreement what it has offered to compromise and has not given us what we would get from that title, which is, of course, the way that we "feed" from the compromise, I take what we should give, but you will never get because we are stronger and so on. In short, if we do not delay, we will support this issue in the expectation that it is our last, I would say, a move that points to our positive attitude towards the neighbor, in the hope that he will realize, however, that once it is done, for example, that questions that are unresolved, as far as our border is concerned, he must change his views and also listen to the principle of righteousness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. Victory Jelinčič has the word Please?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u21	Mr President, the official title 'Republic of Croatia', which is Croatian, continues to be used in the previous act. I propose that you let the debaters use the name of the neighbouring country in the Slovenian language: Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u22	It's not procedural. You used this opportunity and opportunity. I am not going to warn Members here with this speech on vocabulary and other mistakes - or on spelling, spelling, spelling, if you will, from this part of the speaker. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Slovenia also had to develop an annual national programme of the Republic of Slovenia for the implementation of the NATO Membership Action Plan in 1999-2000 when preparing its documents for entry into the NATO Pact. And there's a chapter on page 21 of Political Security. If we go a little further, on page 24 it writes nicely, literally as follows: "As the changes will have the most impact on the border areas, the government has prepared a project for the entire treatment of the border of Slovenia." I don't think there's much to say, because the whole of Slovenia's borders are being addressed, because we're talking about the relationship between Slovenia and Italy, because Italy was then that questionable area when we entered, it's clear that Croatia should also prepare such documentation and if it's not already here for the double criteria when we enter the NATO Pact. In the same document, when we are talking about key areas of preparation for membership, namely, the official title, in integrating the principles of the strategic concept of the union into its security and defence system and the strategic and doctrinal definitions, certain documents have to be adopted, including the resolution on the origins of the national security concept, the military defence strategy, the doctrine of military defence and the national strategy for joining NATO. All these documents were produced and handed over by Slovenia to NATO. It seems that Croatia did not need this, as everyone says it was not. Of course, there are also documents called a map. Maybe someone doesn't know what a map is, but I think it's pretty clear. And if we look at the plan for the period that Slovenia has drawn up for the years 1999 to 2003, these matters are still being supplemented. And it was necessary to supplement and develop and adapt conceptual and doctrinal documents to the changes made, to supplement the doctrine of military defence and to adapt other conceptual and doctrinal documents to the changes made. At that time, the concept of defending the Republic of Slovenia towards Croatia was to withdraw, for example, from the White Landscape to the mountain above Semič and to place the first line of defence there. That was later changed. But how would this be done if there were no documents on these matters? In short, we're being "finely strung out." And most of all, we're being "stressed" by Croats. When someone spoke about their political culture, I think it would be good to quote what was in the Washington Times today in an article titled Balkan crippled Jeffrey Kuhner wrote, namely, that Sanader promised to take Croatia to the EU by 2011, but turned it into a mafia country. Sanader is also an irreparable liar. Actually, I'm saying this because he's so successfully lying about that agreement and the Bled deal, and our former prime minister says he wasn't there, and I believe he wasn't there. And then he says, "His allies," by Sanader, "are desperately trying to discredit the regime's criticisms, especially those in the West." And he goes on to say, "Sanader's criminal regime is a disgrace to the Croatian people. The Croats have to ask themselves whether they want something better or if they're going to let them drag them into the Balkan chasm in centimeters." It is said that if Croats are drawn into the Balkan divide, and if it is written about by the Washington Times, which is not the Ljubljana Diary or the Work, which we know how they write, but is a serious newspaper - it is probably worth imagining. For if they are drawn into the Balkan abyss, we will also follow them one step at a time. That's why you stay good, obedient, voting yes. We will be "against" in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is ahead of an extremely important decision. We accept the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Treaty in days that are likely to be decisive for regulating border issues between Slovenia and Croatia. The Slovenian People's Party's Group supports Croatia's entry into both NATO and the European Union, but not unconditionally. It is unacceptable for the SLS to support the country which, in the years following the independence of Slovenia and Croatia, occupied parts of Slovenian territory and sea with the policy of enforcement. In these occupied areas Croatia insists on taking even unlimited territorial access to the open sea. To this end, in our view, it also wishes to use the accession documentation it has provided for integration into the European Union and NATO. A subset of historians and other experts within the Slovenian-Croatian Borders Commission found that Slovenia had unquestionably had unlimited access to the open sea during its independence, to oversee, inter alia, the entire Piran Bay and hamlets on the left bank of Dragonje and the territory on the left bank of Mure near Hotiz. On this territory, which was under Slovenian sovereignty on the day of independence, no one has the right to negotiate on behalf of Slovenia, nor can it be the subject of international arbitration or judgment by an international court. Dear colleagues and colleagues. According to the SLS, this finding of Slovenian experts should be adopted as a binding document by the National Assembly; perhaps as a resolution, which we have repeatedly proposed in the SLS. Since we have not done so, you have not done so, we have proposed an additional decision to ratify Croatia's accession to NATO in order to at least partially protect Slovenia from prejudice to the border due to the controversial documentation submitted by Croatia. The most just path would undoubtedly be for Croatia to give up its territorial claims to the detriment of Slovenia, both in documents and in the field, and then, of course, ratify the protocol. Let me also mention an important historical fact, which is a strong but untapped Slovenian argument, namely the fact that the cadastral municipalities of Kaštel and Savudrija were in contravention of the special agreement to the London Memorandum, to take the municipality of Piran and to join the municipality of Buje. At the proposal of our Group of Members, we had the opportunity to look into the documentation that Croatia is supposed to submit for admission to NATO. On behalf of the SLS, I thoroughly examined what was given us to look into. Also on the basis of a re-examination, I claim that the documentation is controversial and that at least four of the facts mentioned in the documentation for Slovenia are controversial and harmful. I am even more convinced that the dossier submitted was not complete. It is perfectly logical that no country can enter such an important military union without presenting the area, the territory of a country that will have the status of NATO's territory in the future. I ask you, with what territory does Croatia actually enter NATO? I ask you, who claim that there is no dispute, whether you are willing to take responsibility and withdraw - if the documentation proves to be controversial and implies a prejudication of the border. In addition, we claim that the exact same documentation has certainly been submitted for both NATO and Croatia's EU accession. Not to be misunderstood, let me stress that in the Slovenian People's Party we welcome the previous determination of the President of the Government when it comes to protecting Slovenian territory and the sea. We regret, however, that an additional decision was rejected on the Foreign Policy Committee, which would express Slovenia's consistency. That is why today, Members of the SLS have re- tabled a proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: "The Republic of Slovenia declares that it does not recognise the rules of the Republic of Croatia which violate the territorial integrity of the Republic of Slovenia and change the situation on land and sea on 25.6. On this day, Slovenia had unlimited access to the open sea and, among other things, controlled the entire Piran Bay with hills on the left bank of Dragonje and the territory on the left bank of Mure near Hotiz. The activities of the Croatian Land Army and the Navy in these areas are not permitted by Slovenia." Dear Members and Members! For the first time since its independence, Slovenia must fight to preserve the country within its independence borders. Members of the SLS without adopting the decision we have proposed and because of the way in which Members are accepted, when we have not received all the documents in sight, we will not support the ratification of the entry into NATO of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlič has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u27	Your Honor! Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the adoption of the law on the ratification of the Protocol on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Connection. There's more than one argument for that. Perhaps it would also apply in the National Assembly to discuss this in the way that French President Sarkozy and German Chancellor Merklov tell us about unfair cooperation within NATO when they talk about the need for some audits. Perhaps there will be an opportunity later, not so long ahead, even in the National Assembly to discuss this. But right now, we have an act on the table that came to order at the very end. After a country has expressed its interest to join in this connection, after it has come all the way that has been prescribed to meet the criteria that all of us who have joined in this connection have had to meet. I believe that the Republic of Slovenia, at all stages, like all other members, has been accompanied, has been involved in monitoring the preparation of the Republic of Croatia in all areas when it comes to the transformation of the army, when it comes to the introduction of democratic standards, and in the end its vote has decided that the Republic of Croatia now meets the conditions for inviting it. I don't know any democracy in the world, no democratic state in the world that in any way prevents another country from providing collective security within an alliance on its own standards, under the same conditions as others. Nor do I know a better alliance than the NATO alliance, although I myself had a lot of comments, and what I said at the outset also worries me - whether it is really an unfair cooperation within this relationship. But maybe later. I don't know any Democrats, and I don't know anyone at the LDS House who would prevent anyone from assuming their share of responsibility within troubled areas such as the Western Balkans, such as the Middle East, and if you want to go to Afghanistan and other crisis areas. It would be too selfish that only those of us who are already around, we think we all know that we can do everything and, as was said somewhere, we can show others the side that is said to them: we - yes, you are behind us and you do not deserve it! We've been discussing this thing for a long time as some kind of sholastic, some of the documents that "God" are, but we haven't looked at them, we've seen that there are no preludes who would go to the detriment of Slovenia. So about what we've seen, what we've heard, and we believe it. We also believe that gestures of goodwill show that you agree with someone who speaks the same way about the same issues, so in this case we are talking about security, cooperation, peace across the world and the application of certain democratic methods. I do not agree with those who say that NATO also expresses democracy in some countries, and this is that Western type of democracy, because this is contrary to some traditions, cultures and so on, but this is another discussion. We believe that this approach to ratification and adoption of this law will be in the way it is done in the National Assembly. I do not believe that this requires a two-thirds majority, even as some constitutional lawyers have told us, but if that has been the case so far, so should it. It's simply that it can't hurt us, it can help us solve all the disputes that we have, for all the unresolved issues, and I believe that it's going to be a turn for each other - not just a border as we know it, and we will also [[...]] [[Incomprehensible, the sign of the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u28	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Explanation of votes? Procedurally, please first.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In the Group of Members, we are convinced that it can or is highly likely that we can avoid the subsequent legislative referendum after the adoption or approval of this ratification, so if we adopt an additional decision, which we propose, the decision we propose will be in a commercial capacity at a special meeting. [[...]] I agree with this because, at this point of this Decision, it is not possible to adopt. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we propose to take a decision on this point at one of the future meetings. As previously said, in this short period of time, and we still have time to implement this procedure in February, I propose that both the Committee on Foreign Policy and the National Assembly adopt the proposal for a decision that we have tabled today in the procedure of the National Assembly. That is, that the Republic of Slovenia does not recognise the rules of the Republic of Croatia which violate the territorial integrity of the Republic of Slovenia and change the situation on land and at sea to 25. 6. 1991. On this day, Slovenia had unlimited access to the open sea and, among other things, controlled the entire Piran Bay, the hamlets on the left bank of Dragonje and the territory on the left bank of Mure near Hotiz. The activities of the Croatian Land Army and the Navy in these areas are not permitted by the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that if such a decision is taken in the National Assembly in Slovenia, we will avoid a subsequent legislative referendum that would make the whole process even more complicated. Thank you very much. Therefore, as I say, I propose, in accordance with Article 74, that we take a decision on this point at one of the following meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, I cannot put this motion of procedure to the vote because we have already voted on this, precisely such a proposal within this point, to address this 13th point. Of course, I am informed that this proposal for a decision or position has been put into the procedure of the National Assembly. He will be assigned to the Committee on Foreign Policy and will also have to attend the National Assembly. That is why I do not see any link between these two, and I will not put this decision to the vote. However, your proposal will, of course, be considered in the framework of the procedures in the National Assembly and will also come to one of the meetings of the National Assembly. So much for that. Proceed, please. [[...]] Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups? So, I open applications for explanations of vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Please. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We regret that we did not postpone this decision in the parliamentary group. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will undoubtedly vote against the ratification of the Protocol. The reason for this is the approach we have adopted when Croatia joins the European Union. There we have clearly and firmly stated that the documentation contains elements that prejudge the border and therefore block Croatia's entry into the EU. The same approach should also apply in the case of NATO, where the documentation we had in sight - and I have personally looked into matters and I have seen in my own eyes that this documentation prejudges the border in at least four elements. No one here is gonna convince me that's not the case. I'm talking about principle. And I am sorry that Croatian media is already making fun of the Republic of Slovenia, as my colleague Jelinčič was talking about. Moreover, we are not sure that we have seen all the documentation; we have talked about maps. For all of this, we cannot take responsibility when ratifying the Protocol. You will have to take responsibility for those who vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sure, at least now, at least these three minutes so we don't sit between the deaf, the blind and the dumb. Today, the champion of the Slovenian National Party laid down a series of facts, data, from the newspaper, from history, from maps, from documentation that we could at least listen to and consider. And since we are a day after a cultural holiday, it would be good to have read the Cankars, his Girls, who are written as a game, but are very thin and very readable. There's a person in Boys who's called Komar. And I found out if today there was any theatre director or film director who would like to emulate the Girls on Film Screen or on Theatre Stages, he unfortunately has at least 80 candidates in this National Assembly for the role of the Mosquito. If you don't know who this is, read it. What can I say? Facts aren't enough. Let me put it this way. I hope you hear that, but if not you, the ones who listen to us. The Slovenian national party does not want to harm Croats. The Slovenian National Party wants the good of Slovenia. At least remember that. And for the good that we want this, our country of Slovenia, on behalf of those, even my friends, who, unfortunately, are no longer after 1990, because they died, I will say such ratification to my colleagues 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Members and Members. I'm opening the application. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear First Minister, distinguished Foreign Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I'm voting against it today. I am not against the entry of the Republic of Croatia into global and European integration. But I'm on hold for an indefinite period of time. In a way that Croatia is opposed to my country, my Slovenia, I cannot vote in favour at this time. Of course, mistakes in our home must also be sought, recognized, and found a way to solve our problems successfully. However, as some things are now revealed in the accession documents of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, with maps affecting our territory and thereby limiting the vital interests of our country, I am even more convinced of the correctness of my decision. Furthermore, how can I explain my failure to accept the principle of justice by the Republic of Croatia. Well, not just that. When I read Croatian media, I have the feeling that they are afraid of this principle and that they are afraid, as well as the cynical smile of their minister about the importance of this principle, I am deeply disturbed. The principle of righteousness, I imagine, is that there are no letters or words that could be above this principle. We are part of a generation that has crowned the centuries-old efforts of our ancestors that we are here today, where we are to rule on our land, and I would not want to waste this capital and when it rusted before my children, perhaps even grandchildren. Let me also say that my voice is not a voice against the Croats with whom I am a friend, but against Croatian politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u37	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I respect our Croat neighbours, and I have many friends there, but I do not understand their official policy to tighten relations between countries and to disregard the borders between countries that we all know well. I also do not understand our official policy, which is thinking that with some discharges it will arrange for it to give its consent to join NATO and not the EU. I also understand the Slovenian Democratic Party that they are not determined to buy time for reflection by extending the receipt of the final account, whether they are doing right or wrong in supporting Croatia's admission to NATO. I hope they make the right decision today. I like that the Jelinčič will make the right decision today. Your Honor, I'm afraid we're not on the right track in this way to resolve our problems. We should all work harder together, more decisively, when we fight for our rights, our territory and the sea. I will therefore vote against what I also expect from those who do not care about our young country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u39	Mr President, Mr President, the Government and Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. I will vote in favour, for principle reasons as well. I would also vote in favour of Croatia's entry into the European Union, because I believe that materials, maps and everything that we believe prejudges the border if created after a remarkable date of independence cannot prejudge it. Everyone, including those who have little knowledge of international law, knows that these arguments are more political than international law. I hope that the vote to vote Croatia's entry into NATO will also be the voice of sociability in mutual relations, that this voice will contribute to a better understanding, not only with Croatia, but also with the European Union and with our strategic partners. I have a feeling that we have remained quite isolated in recent times on the international scene and that this gesture must also now gain some confidence and some credibility, which I think has been lost in recent weeks and even in the opinion of some observers. Of course, it would be interesting to hear what the great, important European interlocutors and other NATO members have to say about this. It is likely that we are aware of the strategic importance of today's vote, because such pressure would probably not have happened if there had not been other decisions earlier. Today it is wise to vote in favour to take a step forward and the negotiations continue. Even with the support of the EU and also with the support of mediation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u41	Dear Mr President, distinguished Mr President of the Government, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleague and colleague! I am sure that NATO membership is bad for Croatia. As I am sure that NATO membership is bad for Slovenia. I voted in the referendum, where we decided on our NATO membership, as well as more than a third of Slovenian elections and "against" voters. And in this opinion, I insist. And by some logic, I should vote the same in this case. But I understand and respect the referendum will of the majority, and I understand and respect Croatia's desire to become a member of this relationship. Although I regret that Croatia has not checked your will at the referendum, I do not have this authority here and I must not have it. I will vote in favour of the proposed decision, and this vote "yes" is not a vote for the expansion of NATO, but it is a vote for the freedom of the Croatian people to decide on their fate as they wish. In this end, I am also confirmed by the version of our hymn about the "nations who want to wait for the day" and so on. And the end of this pussy talking about "it's not gonna be the devil, it's just the neighbor of the border." And I would like to contribute by this vote to these good-neighbourly relations. Although I am green after the parliamentary internship myself, but given the history that has already been repeated in this Parliament for the second time, now as a farce, it is the first time that we have voted on these things. Despite this greenness, I am sure that in my decisions I will be wiser than the many who are sitting here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Don't comment on others, please. Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! President, Prime Minister! My voice "against" is not against the Republic of Croatia, but it is against closing the possibility of the Republic of Slovenia to the open sea. Colleagues and colleagues, I do not believe that less documentation is necessary, where there is no border village listed, than it is necessary to establish municipalities in our own country, where settlements must be listed. I am sorry to ask whether the previous government and now it has put us ahead of the fact that certain documents are being hidden. If I remember, of course, who was the minister of the past 12 years and who is the advisor in the cabinet of the President of the Government today, this suspicion is all the more so and it is actually justified. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I do not understand why you did not allow the Slovenian People's Party and all of us, through this vast majority of power, to vote on such a decision, which would have been so-called blissful thirsty, but nothing else, but we would have a good feeling. I'm sorry, and I'm ashamed that we have in this country and in power all the time, left or right, any one still too many "cardels" not enough "master generals". I'll treat myself like General Maister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Once again, I am opening an application to explain to the Member's vote. Please. Mr Miran Györek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u45	Respectable presences, colleagues, colleagues. At first I didn't want to come to the phone, because my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party have already said a lot. Now he won't leave me alone so I won't ask you a question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u46	Mr. Györek, you can't ask anyone, that's an explanation for the voice. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u47	My Opinion [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u48	We don't need your opinion, we don't need other opinions, we just need your explanation for your vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u49	My opinion is that we are entering into a pact with the invader. I come from a region where Croatian police, the Croatian state exercises jurisdiction in Slovenian territory, sometimes even daily. That's what the people there know, the living people there don't know that many who don't live there. It's in two places, at Hotiz and in the Murski Forest. And it's hard for people who live there to watch and now listen to this sacrilege when we go into a pact with a friendly country, with friends. There you can see what Croatia is, how Croatia lies to the world and shows a completely different situation than it really is. If Croatia were fair, it would withdraw from that territory on the left bank of Mure, not to exercise its presence there by its armed forces, but what the police are other than that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u51	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. I'll vote against it. Croatia has clearly demonstrated by its views and actions so far that it does not wish to deviate from its own views at any cost. She's taken a very aggressive tactic, and she's pushing us into an unacceptable defensive position, which is not good for us. In all this story, Croatia is always for the better. We do not have the right to our land, our territory owns it, sells it, and whistles at the cadastral borders, treaties and various requests. It is incomprehensible and, of course, we ask all conscious Slovenians, who mean something to us Slovenia, how long will we give in to a country that makes fun of such acts from all Slovenians. This is unacceptable, and an end must be made. No one in this country has the right to negotiate about our land, but there are also very clear views on the Constitution. All who contribute to the alienation of our Slovenian land will have to explain one day why they have done so and therefore answer to the nation. For the people do not forget, nor forgive. Every possibility and every opportunity must be used to end blackmail and finally to overcome the minds of those who, with impudence bargaining skills, impose their very own entire Europe. The realization of its own objectives must not in any way be dazed, but it would be shameful for all citizens of Slovenia to bow down once again before blackmailing someone we have already come to know well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u52	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. In doing so, I inform you that the law will be adopted if two thirds of all Members vote for it, 60 or more. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 11. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. PERFORMANCE OF THE PERSONAL IDENTIFY RULE REFERENCE. The correction of the official consolidated text of the law was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: The correction of the Officially Cleared Text of the Law on a ID card is confirmed. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has confirmed the correction of the official purified text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. In the context of this item, the assembly will consider ten proposals from the Judicial Council for election to the judiciary by means of proposals for decisions and a notification from the District Court in Kočev concerning the indictment of the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana against the Member of the National Assembly. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. We are moving on to the consideration of the 10 proposals of the Council of Justice for election to the judiciary by means of proposals for decisions. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly ten proposals for the election to a judicial function at the courts of the higher courts at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, five District Judges at the District Courts in Celje, Novi mesto and Maribor and two District Judges and two District Judges at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana and at the District Courts in Kranj and Ljubljana. The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Tatjana Eberlinc Jurkas to the Court of Justice of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Boris Damjan to the judicial seat of the District Judge at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Dejan Kmetec as judge of the District Court at the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Sandre Klanšek to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Celje. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Melite Perko to the District Court of Justice in the Regional Court in Novi Grad. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Anita Shuntajs Bastl to the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Saša Prelog Žnidarič to the District Court in the Regional Court of Maribor. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Tanja Husar to the District Court of Justice in the Regional Court of Maribor. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Lidija Smolar to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Dušana Bajc to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 1. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am moving on to the hearing of a notice from the District Court in Kočev concerning the motion filed by the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana against the MP of the National Assembly. The District Court in Kočev forwarded the notice to the hearing of the meeting. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body which submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The mandate-election commission shall propose to the Assembly that it adopt the following decision: the National Assembly, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notice of the District Court in Kočev, operative number K100/2007/7, of 19.12.2008 concerning the application of the indictment of the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana against the Member of the National Assembly of Janko Webra for the co-operation of the criminal offence of smoking under Article 305 of the Penal Code, second paragraph, of the 25th Article of the Penal Code, does not recognise the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly to Mr Janko Vebra and allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. On the basis of Rule 270 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the second session of the National Assembly. Thank you very much and very much.
