ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the fifth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Alexander Ravnikar, Miroslav Klun, Roberto Battelli, Matevž Frangež, Janez Janša, László Göncz, Ljubo Germič, Miran Potrč from 18.30 p.m. on, Daniel Krivec, Silva Črnugelj from 18.30 p.m. on, Anton Kolarič from 18.30 p.m. on, Bojan Kontic from 18.30 p.m. on and Mag. Borut Saiovic. I welcome everyone here. A particularly nice greeting to the Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor. I inform you that the National Assembly will adjourn at 12 noon due to the convened College of the President of the National Assembly, which is scheduled to last for up to 13 hours and will continue its 5th regular meeting of the National Assembly. Let me move on to 14. This is for discussion on the response of the Prime Minister of Bohr's Government to the business question of French Bogowicz in connection with the reorganisation of Slovenian electricity in relation to the novelization of the National Energy Programme. At the 4th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response that the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, had put to the question of Mr Bogovic, on the matter of the reorganisation of Slovenian electricity or the amendment of the National Energy Programme. I therefore give the floor to Ambassador Franz Bogovic to further explain the request for discussion on the response of the President of the Government. Mr. Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u2	Dear Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Madam Minister, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Secretary-General of the Government, Director of the Energy Directorate, Dear Fellows, Fellow Members! That's a nice greeting for me. First of all, we sincerely thank you for having voted in the previous meeting on initiatives and issues, and for the opportunity to talk today about a very important area of energy. I am pleased that this was the last time there has been a break-up, because something symbolic is certain that we are addressing this point on 15 May, which is the global day of climate change and certainly energy is one of those that has much in common with climate change. As I have pointed out last time in asking questions and complementary questions, my primary intention is to hold this debate and to get certain answers, and above all to talk about energy and the long-term orientation of energy in Slovenia and to decide on the basis of the thorough reflections set out in the National Energy Programme. I am pleased that the Green Paper on the National Energy Programme has also been published and put into public debate in this interim period, so that more can be said about it today. And I also consider today's session to be a debate on this document in the National Assembly, because I estimate that with water and energy, energy and energy is the third issue that this world, which is also changing and on which the development of humanity will depend to a large extent. In the meantime, I am sorry that in the media, this problem has emerged as some kind of conflict or measurement of power between the two energy pools, between Posav and the Shale Valley, as well as between energy sources. Let me say from this town that Velenjski and I have been great friends, that in recent years we have together established the Faculty of Energy, which we started in Krška, on the proposal of the University of Maribor, which is part of this university, and then, we have also gladly accepted the place where this programme takes place, even in Velenje. Let me tell you why, as a politician who has been working at the local level, I have had a good decade of experience with energy, in which I have also come up with certain questions, trying to find answers and feeling the need to speak responsibly in the National Assembly. In 1995, when the elections for the 1996-2000 term were held, I was still a local politician and we wrote down, under the programme of the Slovenian People's Party, as far as the Sava power plants are concerned, that we insist that these power plants are being used for energy efficiency and, above all, for flood protection and other uses for agriculture, that this project continues and that we advocate that this project be carried out within the Slovenian economy. Finally, interestingly, this has also led to controversy in state institutions in this regard. Finally, with Mr Kopač present today, who was then Minister of Environment and Space and Energy, as well as with the Secretary of State, who was then, interestingly, Mr Robert Golob, when this concession was awarded to the Sava Power Plants, although the then Director of the Sava Power Plants, who was, by chance today, the Minister of Health, was more inclined to grant this concession to Sava, d.o.o., where 51% of the Austrian ownership of Werbunda was owned. And it was interesting for the Members of the two committees - for agriculture and the environment and space, 15 of us this week were in Posav on Wednesday, where we also made sure of what has happened now in three mandates in this area. It is said that the two power plants are practically one in operation, the other in the final phase, the third in construction and that the fourth and fifth plants are also located. Few such facilities have been placed in space in recent years. As Mayor of the Municipality of Krško, I have had this opportunity to be in the framework of the association of cities that we have nuclear facilities, whose Vice-President I have been in the last four years - a European association of cities, and I have had the opportunity to see in the field of nuclear technologies virtually all the practices and also all the situations. From how waste is disposed of, how power plants have closed down because of policies such as those in Germany, to because of poor technical conditions in East Germany, Bulgaria. In recent years, however, there has also been an increasing number of opportunities to see the construction of nuclear power plants. I also attended several events in the framework of the European Parliament and the European Commission, where there was also much talk about energy policy in the coming years. As a participant in the European Nuclear Forum, I am particularly drawn on this experience. I think I've been looking for a number of questions in recent years that were more than answers ten years ago, especially on the nuclear use of a nuclear power plant and so on. In the Interstate Treaty, there was once again one area in which we strongly opposed certain regulations in the local space, then some changes were made in the two Slovenian laws and in the end even now, on the basis of the amended legal provisions, based also on the activities of the Radioactive Waste Agency in our space in the final phase of the disposal of low and medium-level radioactive waste. During this time, there were also a lot of turbulence in the field of energy: from excess electricity to a lot of balanced production, to later shortages, high electricity prices and at the end of the last year, we have talked a lot about environmental changes, the main and main reasons for which are largely greenhouse gas emissions, which are being emitted into space by electricity or the production of electricity. As a result, an energy-environment package has also been adopted, which has provided very clear definitions and guidance to all European countries, members of this advanced European community, on how to proceed in the future. At the beginning of our mandate, much has already been said about energy - about the formation of the strategic world that was set up, to the fact that strong words have already fallen on major investments, about the change in the organisation of energy and much of the dilemma was also about the new provider on the electricity market. All of this has led me to raise this issue at the meeting, and I myself assess that there is a need for a thorough reflection and a responsible decision to be made at this time. The decisions we now make are made several decades later. I am convinced that these decisions need to be taken or that these decisions need to be taken before decisive moves are made in the field of investment as well as energy organisations or the issuing of state guarantees for energy facilities. In 2004, the Resolution on the National Energy Programme was adopted. A fairly thick package of paper is this, and in the review of this document and also in the findings of the new, again quite thick, the Green Paper for the National Energy Programme has been said, it has already been found that the guidelines, which were very specific, including very clear and written in 2004, have been very smallly fulfilled and that some steps should also be taken in this area. Above all, the area of renewables, I think, has been very neglected in these years, and even in adopting the budget rebalancing, I have made quite a few comments, because I think we have missed one opportunity already this year. As I have already said, in these meetings with other colleagues across Europe, I also had one such meeting in Germany on Monday and Tuesday, in a place where German policy has decided to close two reactors. They were colleagues from the Netherlands and also from Sweden. The document adopted by the Swedish Coalition is interesting, the document is on seven pages or print, and in this document, if you read it in detail, you see practically the whole direction of Swedish energy for the next 30 years. The title of this document is a stable energy and environmental policy for the environment, competitiveness and long-term stability of the country as a whole. It is interesting that this document has been adopted by the Swedish Coalition, that is to say a government document, a document that has now been put into a broad public debate and in this document, as I have already said, are so determined moves or objectives that the first objective is ecological sustainability, competitiveness and security in supply, the objective of renewable resources, as regards greenhouse gas reductions, is significantly stricter than European directives or guidelines. The government also wrote in this document that the two pillars are hydro and nuclear, wrote that it renounces the referendum decision on the prohibition of nuclear construction and that Sweden should discuss this. This is a Swedish case. We need to make our own case. A very interesting case was also the case of a colleague who came from the Netherlands, where their energy policy is completely changing. What are the main reasons why the Dutch are completely changing politics? So far, their electricity supply has been based on gas, since they have large gas deposits in the North Sea. However, because they know that this gas is only for twenty years, and because they are aware of the great climate change and fear of the shares which one metre of land, if the sea rises, floods a large part of the country and also makes a very high cost by pumping water, pumping, where there is a very clear direction, as necessary, and once again the main objective of environmental change. I went into detail myself through the Green Paper for the National Energy Programme. I must say that it is right that this book is in public debate. I think that a whole series of comments should be made on this book and that there should be very clear guidelines in the end. So far, it has been written in the same way as the written majority of Slovenian resolutions, which are very readable, in some ways liked, at the implementation level paralysed as the 2004 resolutions with 5%. I think that there will be a lot more to be added in this document, as it is interesting that two or three paragraphs may be written on the energy-environment package as a basic orientation that is adapted to all European policies, for example, on the possibility of drawing brown coal in Gorički, where the Nature area is, for example, at least once more of the content in this document. That is why I think that a thorough debate is really necessary in Slovenia and it is clear what kind of society we want to be in five years' time, what kind of society we want to be in 20 years' time, in 30 years' time, and what are our basic priorities. I am evaluating and also from this place inviting those responsible on 3 June to discuss this document to the Council of the Province of Posavje, which we will carry out and give sufficient thought to enable then the real state, the government, to sign under such a document, under a document that will shape energy at today's starting points and at today's expectations. In my review and in my current knowledge of this subject, I think that I have come to one conclusion that Europe, as the largest protagonist in the protection of the environment proposed for new technologies, is aware of the very responsibility, its responsibility for the existence of the planet as a whole. This planet has a very well-distributed resource, a wealth. The first billion and a half people in the most developed societies are practically using more than half of their energy and also releasing a lot of greenhouse gases. If Europe does not take the lead and the rest of the developing countries, such as China, India, continue on this path as Europe has done in the last 30 years, we will come to energy consumption, which is now 15 times higher in Slovenia than in India per person. And if we're going to use the vast supply of coal that is present in China, I'm afraid that our great-grandchildren of this planet will no longer be able to deliver. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the President of the Government, I should like to inform you that the Secretary-General has informed us that there will be a mag in addition to the President of the Government. Janez Digač, v.d. Director-General of the Energy Directorate of the Ministry of the Economy. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, for an additional reply. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u4	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Madam Members and Members of Parliament, good afternoon! Although today's debate is directly about the question of Mr Franzi Bogovic, I understand that the debate has stimulated a widespread increased interest in energy in recent times, both with us and with us. Energy policy is at a turning point. Today, we face extraordinary challenges in restructuring energy to meet the needs of a modern society and, as already said in the introduction, to preserve the natural resources of our planet for our descendants. Slovenia, like other countries in the European Union, in Europe, is an energy dependent country. We depend on imports of certain energy products. Domestic resources are limited and should therefore be treated in a rational and sustainable manner. Now is the time when we will have to make every effort to achieve the climate-sustainable goals that we have committed ourselves to together with our European partners. We are talking about a new energy policy where, in the light of the reduction of the negative impact of man on the environment and in order to increase the reliability of his own supply, we have committed ourselves to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, increasing the use of energy from renewable sources and improving energy efficiency. At the same time, we must ensure that the energy market works well, as this is a prerequisite for more affordable projects, more competitive services and more rational energy use. This is also the direction of the recently presented Green Paper, which is intended to stimulate public debate and lead to the development of the solution needed for the new National Energy Programme of the Republic of Slovenia. Although we have a 2004 national energy programme, which is not bad, but as Mr Member has already said, there is not much implemented. Some trends have even deteriorated in recent years, such as the extent of renewable energy consumption. No strategic document, including the one we are preparing now, will of course be useful if it is not implemented in practice. Due to the so-called European Union climate and energy package, which puts us even more ahead of the ambitious renewable energy targets and the efficient use of energy, this Slovenian energy programme needs to be renewed to a certain extent. A new document will be written, its essential orientations will be stable energy supply, competitiveness and sustainable development. You have also highlighted these guidelines as crucial in your question of the Member of Parliament, honourable Member. You have written down that we want to have a reliable and stable electricity system that will allow customers to supply at competitive prices, both for households and for companies, and that we will ensure the stability and price competitiveness of the system and that, in doing so, the Government fully agrees, we will only develop our own production capacities effectively enough and be significantly less dependent on importers from imports. The energy challenges posed by the climate and energy package of the Directives of the European Union highlight the importance of building buildings on renewable energy sources. They also require immediate renovation of thermoenergy, as it will not meet the needs and criteria of European standards in the current state of affairs. At the thermal power plant Šostjanj, which has been so much in the discussion recently, we are talking about the use of domestic coal and the investor is obliged to choose the technology that is in line with the latest technological progress. This will also make it easier for the power plant to buy European emission vouchers [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the market, which brings new legislation in this area. [[...]] At the same time, new possibilities for more advanced carbon capture and storage technologies are also being opened and Slovenia will follow up once the technology is commercially accessible, as this is one of the possible responses to environmental emissions problems. I would like to inform the National Assembly on this occasion of the Government's position that Slovenia must continue with the nuclear programme, as it already covers a large part of our electricity production today, and over time we have accumulated knowledge in this area. We need to speed up preparations, meet all the criteria and open the way for the extension of the life span of the existing nuclear power plant, increase its capacity and prepare, if so decided, for the possible construction of a second block of nuclear power plant. In doing so, I must stress that the new nuclear power plant project goes beyond our country's borders, so we must act responsibly in this project, and we must underpin our sustainable arguments also within neighbouring countries, the European Union or all regional situations. With the Green Paper, the government wants to change the attitude towards energy in our society, the development of the global economy is moving towards new, often more expensive, energy and technology sources, while at the same time creating new services and skills in this area. In the future, we will have some key decisions that will not be easy. Energy requires a long-term and well-established strategy. To do this, we must make the best possible contribution to our further development to a low-carbon society by all of us, both at the system level and at the level of the consumer and responsible citizen. Now to the essence of the answer most interested in this high congregation. In Slovenia, we want to achieve at least 25% of the share of renewable energy in energy consumption structures by 2020. In order to achieve an appropriate increase in the share of energy from renewable sources, it will be necessary to take advantage of the different possibilities of such production. Allow me to present some today. First, completion of hydro power plants on the lower Savi. Secondly, the construction of a new chain of hydro power plants in the middle of Savi. Thirdly, the use of other watercourses for the construction of hydroelectric power plants, such as Mura, should we also be able to harmonise nature conservation interests. Fourthly, the construction of smaller biomass cogenerations allowing all heat and electricity production. Fifth, the construction of smaller photovoltaic power plants to use solar power. The government therefore adopted a regulation last week on the promotion of renewable energy production, which will ensure that smaller plants of this type, biogas plants and biomass as well as wind power plants are built. At the end of your question, honourable Member, you give three separately. First time. Is it not now time for individual energy definitions to first form a strategic reflection on further development and to be written in the form of a national energy programme amendment? My answer is this. Decisions in energy are taken for a long time, and even longer, as we can see, their implementation is taking place and not without problems. Only the adoption of the State Spatial Plan for an individual facility takes several years, five years or more, and then many years before construction. This is neither the case with us nor in other countries. If we accepted the proposal to suspend this process now because of the sudden fall in electricity prices, which are due to the global recession, this would be bad for me. I think that energy trends are clear and unequivocal despite the crisis. Moreover, due to the need to respect international commitments, we are also in haste because of the commitments made by the international community and which we have to bear. We are already very late in our commitments to reduce greenhouse gases from the energy sector. With 1. 1. 2013 will start in the European Union area by compulsory purchasing of greenhouse gas emission allowances and due to at least two years of late decision-making on investment in modern production in Šostjanje and because of the unaccepted decision on investment in Trbów we will expect this to be less prepared than would be necessary. Year 2016 - We have to drastically reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides. It's because of the long investment cycle almost here. Another time. Mr Member, if I understand correctly, you are suggesting that we have an open debate on this document in the National Assembly. I completely agree with that. This is also planned, and it is stipulated by the law. We are preparing an intensive national energy programme. The public hearing will take six weeks and it has already begun to deal with the Green Paper in some way. This is a discussion paper that highlights the main dilemma in the field of energy and indicates the necessary direction of action. This will be followed by the preparation of a document with all professional backgrounds. The national energy programme is expected to undergo a government procedure in March next year and parliamentary procedure by mid-term next year. It takes such a long time for the national energy programme to provide for certain specific energy facilities and to carry out an overall environmental impact assessment. This is a demanding process that delays the adoption of the programme for six months. But by doing so, we want to reduce time for individual investments. Without such a comprehensive environmental impact assessment for the entire programme, it is necessary under our or European legislation to carry out an assessment for each individual facility, which takes time. In fact, your third question suggests that only on the basis of the new energy programme will decisions be taken on further steps on Slovenian electricity, mentioning the issue of state guarantees and possible reorganisation. As I was just trying to show you, the adoption of the national energy programme will take some time, and the government cannot wait for this period, so let me give you some illustrations. The investment for block 6 at the thermal power plant Šostanj is underway. The energy permit for the six-megawat block was signed by the current minister on 10.7.2006. On 27 June 2008, on the basis of an international invitation to tender, the Czech Power Plant signed a contract for the supply of the main technology equipment. A reservation contract had already been signed, which provided for the payment of EUR 25 million in the event of withdrawal from the signed contract. The financial structure provides for 70% of the loan and 30% of the own funds. The own resources will be provided by Slovenian electricity companies, as has always been the case in the past. The credits will be provided by the European Investment Bank, probably by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and partly by commercial banks. The State guarantee is possible, and we do not exclude it, as it can be used to value the investment substantially. In April, the Court of Auditors issued a negative opinion on the organisation of distribution network operator systems, and we need to prepare a response report within 70 days. The time has run out for me to be able to say to the end what I wanted to say in response to your colleague's question, which will allow me time to go on, but I have made a point. We are aware of the importance of this area, dedicated to it [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Attention and the National Assembly will also be informed of the findings and we will ask for our proposals to be taken into account. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Government. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The opinion of the Zares Group will be presented by Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr President of the Government, distinguished ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we really believe that the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of Ambassador Bogovic on the issue and strategy in the field of energy was adequate and sufficiently comprehensive. In its reply, the President explained how the Government dealt with the problems mentioned, and it must be said that it was a presentation of the baselines, which is perfectly normal in view of the fact that it was at the beginning of the mandate. The Ministry of Economy has launched activities to prepare a national energy programme. The so-called Green Paper has already been presented to the public days ago - it is at public hearing by June - on the basis of which a broad and wide-ranging approach to the energy strategy is to be conducted. In doing so, it should be stressed that we will really closely monitor the solutions and priorities that we also stress in our programme. These are: efficient and rational use of energy, with emphasis on measures and incentives for lower operating and maintenance costs and for the renovation of buildings for more efficient use of energy and examples in the public sector for more efficient use of energy and for the implementation of renewable energy sources, the promotion of research for the introduction of new technologies and alternative renewable energy sources, and the provision of as much energy independence and independence as possible for Slovenia with diversified and balanced production according to different sources of energy. In the field of energy, the key support of the party is given to renewable energy projects with a target of 25% of the share in final energy use. In doing so, we estimate that we have great potential for exploiting wood biomass, water resources, solar and thermal energy. Nevertheless, in addition to successful energy savings and the search for new renewable energy sources in Slovenia, we will have to think and build new energy facilities, especially if we know that some facilities will be removed from the system in the coming years due to longevity. In doing so, the President of the Government referred to possible investments, such as the construction of the second block of the Krška nuclear power plant, the continuation of the construction of hydropower plants on the lower and central Sava, the preparation for construction on the central Sava and the study of the possibility of construction on the Mura, and I would like to say that we are very reserved until the last in the Zares Group. Of course, it is obvious that the Member with such a reply was not fully satisfied. It is clear from the content of the question that he is a Member, I quote: "I have heard that everything has already been agreed on for the final installation of a 600-megawatt thermal power plant and that more than apparently this project also needed state guarantees." He also notes, quote again: "In a way, the decision on building block 6 has already been made and since then a lot has changed and would be needed," according to him, "new reflections." In a way, we are surprised by the statement made by Ambassador Bogovic as a representative of a party of the former coalition, which is clearly distancing itself from the decisions they have taken in their government and is problematic. At that time, as a representative of the Supervisory Board of the Holding of Slovenski Power Plants, he confirmed both the investment programme of Block 6, the choice of the equipment supplier and agreed to rent credit to the EIB for EUR 350 million and the signature of the guarantee letter when signing the block 6 equipment contract. The building of Block 6 has been defined in strategic energy documents in a resolution on national development projects for a very long time. A number of studies and analyses have been made and multi-million-dollar resources spent on them, and it is also linked to the continued operation of the coal mine in Velenje and the new block will also significantly reduce carbon dioxide emissions and other harmful gases, and in particular we need to make it clear that it will only make up for a different energy output today, as blocks 1 and 2 need to be closed by 2010 and blocks 3 and 4 by 2014. The decision on the construction of block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant was made years ago as the first megaelectric power plant was to be produced in 2012. The proceedings began in 2004, but unfortunately they took an extremely long time, and this is also the main reason for the big promotions that today raise concerns. In doing so, it is sad and worrying that the backlogs were caused by the very state authorities, in particular with regard to the issue of an energy permit, which lasted for 13 months by the Ministry of Economy, led by its colleague Vizjak. It is difficult to get rid of the feeling that it was political games and diversions, stalling and interference, for which no one will answer, even though the damage is estimated at hundreds of millions of euros, as far as the price of equipment has increased during this period. How funny it is that today the high price and value of the investment of Block 6 are the ones who are most responsible for it, as they have been stalled by consensus. It is also now known that the investment will be completed at least two years later, only in 2014. However, the energy permit was issued in May 2006 and signed by his colleague Vizjak. The equipment has also been issued and ordered, for which it is necessary to place it in the waiting line in sufficient time for suppliers. All of this happened with all the consents and approvals, including within the framework of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, in July 2008. We can certainly see that, with great resistance and delay, the previous government of Janez Janša and Minister Andrej Visiak have confirmed the investment and that it has now been brought to a stage when it can begin with implementation and implementation. I therefore believe that it is necessary to seriously consider whether it is really reasonable and reasonable at this time to block and stop the investment, as in the question of the Member's question, in some way to propose to my colleague Bogovic, and to assess the consequences of such a decision. The investment is ready and has all the necessary permits. A financial structure is established, including through the EIB and the EIB, i.e. the European Investment Bank. All the calculations show that what you are so afraid of will not happen to your colleagues in Posavje: that in the case of building block 6 it will reduce funds to finance other energy facilities, including those at your end. It is also clear that, at this point, energy and work would be the most meaningful thing to focus on negotiations to achieve lower prices for ordered equipment, which certainly makes the crisis situation possible in some way. No other energy investment is yet far from being realized. In times of crisis, however, it is essential that the country implements and promotes precisely such investments. We also support the Government's efforts to speed up all procedures for the study and decision on the construction of the second block of nuclear power in Krk, although it is already very late, since it is at the very beginning. Finally, the decision of the Municipality of Krško, led by colleague Bogovic, regarding the storage of radioactive waste, is still not adopted. We also expect that the procedures will run more up-to-date and significantly faster than in the preparation of block 6 of the Šostanj thermal power plant. In fact, we are particularly fond of and support the construction and all the preparations for hydro power plants in the Central Sava. The Green Paper, prepared by leading experts in this field, also clearly shows that this is the course of law. It also states that it is essential to maintain reliable and quality electricity supplies from domestic sources to renovate capacities in the Šostanj Termoelectrica and that long-term conservation, extraction and exploitation of lignite from the Velenj mine is necessary for the diversification of energy resources. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we really support the direction and activities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as presented by President Borut Pahor in his first reply and reply today. Allow me to add the following in the end. We have closely monitored the functioning of the former Government in the field of energy and the results are not very high. It was just building what had been prepared before. So hydro power plants at the bottom of Savi and the Sheep. Many very damaging moves have also been made, and let me mention them: the purchase by Holding of Slovenian power plants of low-value co-ownership shares at the Termoelectrica Brestanica, TEŠ and Sokske Power Plants. And interestingly enough, it has been purchased since then by a friend from the famous August meeting at Mr. Janez Janša, namely from Mr. Matjaž Gantar. It is also inappropriate to estimate the split of the holding company into two parts, where very much money is lost, which could be spent on investments, and so today half the private company is trading in state electricity. And interestingly, Mr Igor Bavčar has his co-owners' fingers in it, which means that, in the mandate of the government of Mr Janez Janša, we have "de facto" partially carried out the privatisation of the Krška nuclear power plant. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Sometimes it is also necessary to move a little ahead of our own threshold before we want to engage in remodeling and demolition of other apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to the Members and Members, guests and guests with the Prime Minister at the head. In our DeSUS Group, we have contributed those required votes so that today we can even carry out this consideration, which we believe is necessary. We are also convinced that it is good, and I hope that the Prime Minister thinks so too, that we have given him the opportunity to expand the answers to the questions given by the meeting at which this additional answer was requested. We are convinced that this is necessary not only because energy is one of the foundations of our lives, because it has a profound and fatal impact on environmental events, because it also affects the economy and no less on the social likeness of our society, but also elsewhere. To take this very seriously, it is also likely that the Committee's regular work on the subject, energy, will have to deal with this issue several times, not just once, in a general debate. And if I add some sentimentality to this, when I am rarely fortunate enough to put my head in my home bed, I sleep, so to speak, a few steps from the first Slovenian hydrocentrale and Dušik Ruše factory, which was an important energy entity in our Slovenia for 90 years. And which one happened, the Nitrogen Plant Ruše happened to be shut down, and the other, the false power plant and the Drava power plant, threatens to sink all the money they accumulate there to the other ends of Slovenia. And some will try to resist that. Otherwise, I would like to respond to some of the views that we have also heard from the President of the Government. The DeSUS Group generally supports guidance. However, we feel that it would be good to take into account what is obviously eating today, which is not, which is not mentioned. Although there is something small about it in the Green Paper, there is a dramatic lack of it in the performances here. And in this respect, the paradigm under which we are thinking today will also need to be corrected. We do not have as much energy and we are not able to produce it as much as we spend it in Slovenia. And that's what all the information is about. And today there were not enough demands on the subject of the URE, on how to deal effectively with the energy we are processing. How, perhaps, I will say, to begin immediately, really immediately, with reconstruction, with the thermal protection of our building fund, how to prevent what we are producing from blowing up. And there's not enough talk about it. Is there anything written down? But it has been said that in the resolution on the NEP we have written ambitious targets that we are achieving 5%. Nothing like that. 3% is the annual growth in electricity consumption. And if we stick to the old paradigm that we need to figure out what we need, how much we are missing in the coming years and how much new capacity needs to be built up, then we will only repeat old samples and also cause old damage again either in the environment or in the economy, because our economy uses 30% more electricity for one euro of gross social product. And this energy dispersion must be over. This should probably be at the heart of a new strategy on the implementation of the national energy programme, and we will at least give more emphasis to this in our parliamentary group than we hear it now. When the Green Paper was adopted in Europe on 8 March, we prepared a written response in Slovenia. This written answer says that in principle we agree that we have not heard anything new. That was all we were able to do, and to this day almost nothing has been done. And I'm sure we're forgetting, say, the Kozjak hydroelectric power plant is a big mistake, twice 200 megawatts. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] energy, that forgetting the faster implementation of photovoltaics is a mistake, that we do not have one word on gas steam cogeneration, for example, in the response we have heard mentioned. [[...]] And all this, crucially with decentralised electricity production, will have to come to the forefront of our thinking. And don't argue between the bush and the scarf lobby.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Rezman. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u10	Your Honor! From politics to reality. I've had enough of this political communication. Yesterday I sat with the director of the Termoelectrica Trbovlje and Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine. The Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine works 205 years, the Trbovlje thermal power plant for 103 years. Together they employ 1,000, not 10, not 100, 1000 people. Everyone survives 3, that's 3,000 people. The development programme, the national energy programme, 2009 green book on the development of suction energy with 1000 people, with a 205-year tradition, with 103-year tradition. Open stock is 2.8 million tons. If you do not know, the translation means until 2015. The region will develop in Zasavje. And energy in Zasavje is part of regional development and we will not leave such a policy. No doctorate and master's degree is necessary to know that the country is successful only on the first condition that it is energy-safe and self-sufficient. Mr. Prime Minister has openly admitted that we are not. If we're not, then don't close the Trbovlje-Bradnik mine, then don't close the Thermoelectric Trbovlje. Why not? The following conditions are met: the location is fully equipped, the involvement in the electricity transmission network is fully regulated, compliance with the current NEP is fully regulated, coal reserves are proven, in addition to 2.8, to tell you that there are still 15 million tons of stocks that are closed, qualified experts are, cadres are, logistics is, tradition is. 1244 giga watts of annual electricity production is given by the Sava Energy Valley, which is 6% of Slovenian energy production. We want to warm up the city, which will reduce the costs for the population during the recession and the coming crisis. We allow the use of wood mass with sufficient domestic coal supplies. Finally, everything that is prepared is in line with EU guidelines, national energy policy, environmental policy and the regional development programme. What else does this country want to keep RTH - Trbovlje Mine - Hrastnik until 2015 and Thermoelectric Trbovlje, which is capable of developing. Mr Križanič, with all due respect, is always with and support and has helped and is now helping. By further development, by developing a gas power plant, it means that if we end up with coal and supply the country with energy, we can continue to do so. And these studies are being prepared, and I'm grateful to him. And he was involved. And I know he's still involved. Why not? What do you need? We got it all. I have fought with the former Minister, who is no longer here, because the country has put millions, hundreds of millions of euros into a new chimney in the Thermoelectric Trbovlje, into a new heated debate, into an updated turbine and into new transformers. What do you need? 40 million euros - against all the money envisaged for just a new boiler. And no more. Everything else stands. Are we going to destroy a thousand people, all the infrastructure that exists, and follow some kind of development policy? I don't know what it is, because it's not exactly defined anywhere. I don't mind 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. I'm the reason they can make them 20. I have nothing against nuke II. I have nothing against hydro power plants. But I don't know why to destroy what it is. Why destroy that? That's not in the green book, ladies and gentlemen! We're written as that part of the energy that closes in Zasavje. We're not going to close. But if this country thinks it's right to close it, with all the 100 million she's invested, all the infrastructure I've counted, then let's do it. We have the guarantee that the new boiler will absolutely comply with all environmental legislation. And there's no obvious, no NO2s, no NOXs, no CO2s, we're not going to exceed anything. Speaking of money and obvious CO2 charges, I don't know, because I'm getting a little confused about all these perceptions, what the state has to pay. That's not true. 20% of the country's production tax immediately recovers and 20% of the additional, from production. When we joined HSE, all income went to HSE and Slovenia, not to Zasavje. He did not return to Zasavje because Zasavje would invest. That's the truth. And of course we will not be able to and will not tolerate this and my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party will not allow it either. And it is right that we are talking about this today, and it is right that the President of the Government has admitted that we are energy-dependent and it is right to do something to make us energy independent. And we from Zasavje: Hrastnik, Zagorje, Trbovlje and colleagues offer excellent, if we change boilers, if we stay, we can get up to 15% of electricity production for this country, for our country, for my country. And if we are 100% self-sufficient today, if we take these 6% existing or the future 15%, we are no longer, we are only 85%. And please, Green Paper, Article 133, I can give you 133, Article 141, Article 143 of the Green Paper. Look, think about what it says and fix it. I'm serious! If not, I promise you on behalf of Zasavja and on my behalf, as a Member, but I think I can also speak on behalf of colleagues and colleagues from Zasavje, civil disobedience, because to talk about whether we are energy dependent, but at the same time not to take into account existing facilities that work, which have the abilities of people who have the skills, who have the skills, who have the equipment that they all have, it is to shut down - that is, of course, world stupidity or that 6%, or that is not enough. And you know what's gonna happen? The only company in Zasavje will be a hospital with 280 employees. The only company! I love Zagorje and Hrastnik, we are Zasavje. 45 thousand people live there, 280 will work in the hospital and a few hundred more in Zagorje and Hrastnik, totaling 700. Where thousands, 3,000 will go, and we have all the conditions. It's a good thing we're talking about this today. And I don't care if one side pulls on a nuclear power plant, the other side pulls on a hydro power plant, the third side pulls on a TEC - everyone be for me. It's not like they're gonna be at my expense and at the expense of Zasavje. That's what I'm telling you. We're not gonna let that happen. I really don't! Even though I'm emotional right now, it really hurts, I've had enough of these political flossules around energy. We're not energy self-sufficient, so we have to be. You have a chance, you have it in Zasavje, to help. Take it and we'll help you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u12	I'll try very hard for a while. As I mentioned earlier, in the Slovenian People's Party we are aware of what are the basic needs of humanity - water, food, energy. We are one of the most advocates of energy being one of the basic requirements of the so-called national interest. And I think, as much as memory doesn't fool me, we are the ones who have never talked about selling any part of energy abroad, and we are also very reserved for privatisation in energy. We will continue to take such a stand. Energy needs to be managed meaningfully and in a way also through the country's regulation, because this is one of the basic tasks that the country has to deal with, and of course also respects the framework that the European environment gives us. As I said before, we miss a thorough discussion on these topics, a discussion on energy as a whole, on its environmental impacts, on its competitiveness, on supply stability. Finally, as I said before, the European Council and the European Commission have already spoken about this, and Parliament have given us very clear frameworks within which we must be guided. If we want to read this, if we want to recognize it, we can see our direction in this, in this we can see the challenges of European society, but we can also blindly put our heads in the sand and leave it to some new sets. And respected colleagues, colleagues, this is not a debate between the left and right, this is not a debate between the old and the new government, this is a discussion about our future. And I am very afraid that, as it has begun today, we will not, as unfortunately we have been listening to this whole mandate, listen to big political debates without content, with Flossouls and accusations, who has been in which government, who has done something, but not to talk about content. I am firmly convinced and - understand as you wish - I always condemn such important decisions to be made in tight political elites, narrow circles - it is necessary to talk about this in broad terms, to listen to the expertise and I think I have something to say in this area. Therefore, I think that a thorough reflection and a thorough discussion are also needed at this point. Since last summer, when some decisions were made, even in the area of T-6 already exposed, there have been many changes: from the new emission vouchers to - if you want - almost doubling the planned investment, resulting in doubling costs added by funding and an appropriate very large impact on the competitiveness of our energy in this area. But that there will be no confusion and there will be no turning around, I personally firmly believe that the main stock of lignite in Velenje needs to be dug up. However, in my opinion - and therefore I want this thought to be carried out and I know that it is also being carried out, I also want to say my concerns, to assess whether it is necessary to go with as much dynamics and as much of an object as it is possible to do smaller than other experts have mentioned many times, a more appropriate solution for this lignite to be dug up at a certain time. And, dear colleagues, those who swear on the green programme in their programmes, I think you will have quite a few problems from your declaration promise to make it even operational if some who are only leaders in these companies or their lobbyists put these projects into space, come to the National Assembly only for the guarantee and all decisions will be taken earlier. And, as I have already said, I firmly believe that this fundamental stock of coal, which is in Velenj, needs to be dug up, and some thorough reflection is needed, on which way to continue, that also because of this investment in Slovenian energy, which will also be the main vehicle of the energy restructuring, there will be another million euros left for alternative sources, for the efficient use of energy - for what you have already said in the individual parliamentary group today to swear to this. This investment can also be very difficult to expect in the second part of nothing else will be our desire as a thorough, serious response and also to take responsibility for the decisions that are being taken at a given time, and also for the sense of peaceful conscience of those who may have received some information more than others. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u14	Honourable President of the Government, Minister, Minister, President, Colleagues and colleagues! We fully support the response of the President of the Government to this issue at the LDS. In theory, the full market is supposed to give economic operators in themselves the right and sufficient signals for investments to enable efficient supply of the market, the long-term provision of the lowest price to users and, at the cost given to companies, to their owners, to ensure a positive relationship. The electricity market is already specific in itself, and there are obstacles in the Slovenian and European energy sectors that slow down the functioning of market mechanisms and prevent a rapid response to market challenges, which can have serious consequences on the electricity market. In our opinion, these obstacles are mainly regulatory risks and obstacles in Slovenia, the difficult placement of energy facilities into space, the lack of coordination between enterprises within the sector and state ownership, which greatly slows down decision-making processes. For these reasons, we need a clear consensus in Slovenia on the relevance of individual investments and the participation of electricity companies and countries in their implementation. The Slovenian electricity sector clearly needs investment, irrespective of the current short-term developments in the electricity market, because otherwise, when import dependence increases, we are at risk of difficulties in providing safe and secure electricity supply. In view of the recent years of the completely changed situation in the LDS, we have highlighted the necessary situation before the last elections following the necessary re-verification of the energy policy and priority and the need for a new national energy programme. Today's debate and some other moves by the opposition are seen as efforts for the government to first draw up a new national energy programme, followed by a decision on strategic energy projects. We also support this order in the LDS, and the President of the Government assured him in his reply. Moreover, he announced the acceleration of the preparation of an amended or new national energy programme, with the participation of the professional public, NGOs and, in the end, politics. In the LDS, we will certainly contribute, as a government party, in accordance with our competences, to the fulfilment of our obligations. In the LDS, we believe that the issue of investment already started for the 6th block of Thermal Power Plant Šostanj is multi-layered, the responsibility for it is clearly defined, and we do not see in particular the particular cause of its problem-strickenness. The issue of the 6th block of the Šostanj Termoelectrica power plant raises quite a number of questions, including for some other players in this investment, but in the LDS we strongly doubt that on such occasions as today's debate on the government's response to the question of the Member State, we can relatively and competently assess the eligibility and economy of this already-started investment, which must first be professionally energy and economically justified. As has already been said, in the LDS we support the accelerated preparation and adoption of the new national energy programme and the broad debate on it. We are also looking forward to a broad and open debate on the possible reorganisation of electricity companies and their privatisation, which in our view are closely linked processes. This is the only way to achieve sustainable, competitive and secure electricity supply in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Anton Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The financial crisis of the global dimension, which has led to the recession of the entire global economy, which has led us to spend many hours this year and to adopt several sets of anti-crisis laws, has also put global and Slovenian energy on the table. Oil prices have collapsed, with the same associated natural gas prices, and electricity prices are no exception. The financial crisis with recession has become a serious threat to the economy as well as an inevitable impact on structural changes in the energy sector. Growth has been slowed, international trade has been reduced. At that time, however, the energy sector has a great responsibility not to fall under the burden and to maintain its readiness and capacity during the crisis. For the energy sector, it would be devastating if investments in new production resources and transmission infrastructure were to be halted due to the crisis, as the economy must continue to develop on a sound basis at the exit of the crisis, the pre-condition being quality infrastructure and sufficient energy sources. When considering the state and development of Slovenian energy, and in this context in particular electricity, it may be interesting to look at its situation in the European Union. This year's European Commission statistical review shows that Slovenians account for only 0.41% of the population of the European Union, and this share also corresponds to our total energy use of 0.4%, similar to the electricity production of 0.45% and the use of electricity, which reaches 0.47%)%. Also interesting are data on the comparison of electricity production in the EU and Slovenia. In the EU, 54.8% of all electricity is produced in the thermal industry, 29% of coal production is produced, 29.5% are covered by nuclear power plants and 14.6% are hydropower plants. In Slovenia, we produce 38.8% of all electricity from coal 36%, 36% from nuclear power plants and 24.5% from hydropower plants. Last year, the production volume of domestic producers was 14,314 gigawatt hours, half of which goes to NEK produced electricity in Croatia, leaving for Slovenia 11,329 gigawatt hours. Among individual manufacturers, the highest share, which is third, is 33.23% of all produced electricity, NEK, Slovenian part, 26.35%, followed by Drava power plants and others. So in graves, we can say that we have a third representation of individual resources, which means a balanced structure - a third of hydro, a third of nuclear and a third of coal. This is one of the key advantages of so far being a reliable supply of electricity. Each of these technologies has advantages, as well as weaknesses. The fact is that a nuclear power plant operates in a 24-hour belt with an extremely high utilisation rate. The production of electricity in hydroelectric power plants, this is production from renewable sources, is quantitatively highly dependent on hydrology, that is, simply put, time. I wouldn't talk about the technical characteristics of our hydropower plants, but they taught me that it's mostly about weekly accumulations that make their production quantitatively adjust the weather or the wateryness of rivers. Because of these properties, the electricity system is a factor that has a variable impact on the quantity of energy produced and, of course, have an important impact on the total price of electricity due to the low price of production. It has an important role, perhaps most importantly, in the electricity system, as already mentioned, the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant, since it produced as much as a third of electricity in Slovenia last year. TES is an important regulator of system services and electricity production, which, with its flexibility, takes over adaptation to fluctuation in hydroelectric power plants. Most important, however, is that it burns domestic coal, a giant lignite that is produced in one of the technologically advanced mines in Europe. Velenje coal mines have been able to dig up coal to such a level that they are also highly competitive in price and thus represent one of the guarantors of quality, reliable and affordable electricity production in the future. If we look at the projected growth in electricity consumption by 2020, which represents a real-time planning period, we should meet the increased growth needs of 2 to 3% per annum at that time. In the next eleven years, electricity consumption is estimated to increase between 27% and 43% according to current consumption. This, of course, means an increase in electricity consumption in the range of today's 13 thousand to 16 and 18 thousand and more gigawatt hours in 2020. At this point, we must therefore ask ourselves how many of these needs we will be able to cover during this period by producing electricity in the territory of Slovenia. In view of the possible growth scenarios for electricity use, it is clear that, in the next decade, all planned thermal power plants must be built by the planned deadline for the construction of the second block of nuclear power plant in Krk to cover the increase in electricity consumption by domestic production. Among them is certainly the most important block 6 at the Termoelectrica Šostanj and it is essential to take advantage of the existing energy location in the Termoelectrica Trbovlje as well as other facilities can be important to increase the coverage of domestic production needs. Let me say that in our view the construction of Block 6 in Šostanje is important due to the increase in coal efficiency, as a fairly good third of electricity will be produced from the same quantity, thereby reducing pollution by CO2 and NOx oxides. Due to the obsolescence of blocks 1, 3 and 4 they will not comply with strict environmental legislation and will have to be closed, construction is, of course, necessary. With regard to the chosen combustion technology, the size of the power and the financing of the investment in Šostjanje, we trust the power plant management and experts who have participated in the process of selecting the project solution and assessing the economic performance of the new block 6. We believe that any attempt at integration, investment decision-making to produce a renewed national programme and investment in this programme is an attempt to stop investment. This means that we are playing with the energy future of the country, and I think I have justified this claim in the previous part of my implementation. In the past period, due to traditional Slovenian thinking, privilege, regional interests and so on, much damage has already been caused and it has been time-consuming to delay the realization of new energy facilities. I think personally, but we can also think in the party and in the sending group that we can't afford it and we can't afford it anymore. Also in the area of the construction of hydroelectric power plants, which represent an important producer of electricity from renewable sources, we are convinced by the Social Democrats that investments must continue and we expect the acceleration of activities in the planning and installation of hydroelectric power plants on the Central Sava, Muri, Soči, as well as Ljubljanica to the space and thus to the earliest possible start of construction. I could also talk about renewable energy sources. As my colleagues will complement me later in the debates, perhaps only the information that much will have to be done in this area by 2020, because ultimately at least 3200 gigawatt hours of electricity from renewable sources for domestic use will have to be provided, given the volume of production so far, and all options will have to be used: from hydropower, biomass from wood, gas, sun, wind, geothermal energy and so on. And I'm done. We support the response of the President of the Government to the question put by the Member States, and we hope that as much energy will be done in this area as possible in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by the mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice President, Honourable Prime Minister of the Government. Minister, Minister, other representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Unlike many others, I will not read any written speeches because I feel that I only know this issue so much that I can speak on one side of the reminder. There has been a lot of talk about national interest in recent times, and I will try to tell you how in the Slovenian Democratic Party we see a national interest in energy. The national energy interest is a secure, reliable, sustainable, competitive supply of Slovenia with energy at the development of the market and competition and with transparency between production operators in the country. It's a national interest. But the national interest is even more! National interest is also a consensus on energy policy within Slovenian politics, not just coalitions. Because, Prime Minister, you mentioned how long individual buildings are being put into space; how long are they being built and how many resources of Slovenian electricity consumers require these investments and therefore this is not for one mandate, it is a project or work that requires consensus and requires discussion and requires responsible decisions. This is, in my opinion, a national energy interest. Let's take a walk on the avenues. First of all, I will not lose too many words here, because it is clear to all of us that the prerequisite for the operation of any energy facility is that it works safely, in accordance with the highest safety standards both to people and to property and, of course, to others. As regards the reliable supply of electricity to Slovenia, this is a very important part of the national interest. In fact, today we cannot imagine that we would be left with a drop, either a long-distance or an electrical production facility, without electricity, or just high-tech economies. Therefore, it is necessary to build sufficient and fair capacity production according to the specificity of the electricity system of the country, to provide a secondary, tertiary reserve and also with the flexibility of production facilities to enable, for the first time - self-sustainment and for the second time - to cover certain unforeseen matters such as failures and the like. It is also very important that, when building strong energy facilities, we are aware that adequate resources of system services must be built for these strong or powerful large-scale facilities. So those system services that cover the possibility of such facilities falling out, because there is a failure in all production and also in transmission. As far as reliable care is concerned, I would welcome here the position expressed by the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Indeed, it is extremely important that we deal with energy efficiency and reduce consumption. This is one of the very important objectives of the climate and energy package. We need to reduce consumption and to strain the share of renewable resources on this reduced consumption. We are only looking here at how we will produce capacity, not how we will reduce consumption at the same time. And the last economic crisis, and not the last economic crisis, has also led to the development of some other economic operators to significantly reduce consumption in Slovenia, and this lower electricity consumption is unknown to domestic consumers. On the contrary, despite the crisis, household clothing is increasing as the expectations and quality of life are likely to increase. Often they are installed, I don't know, even on energy-efficient buildings, air-conditioning in the summertime, and we see that with the smoke law, it's not uncommon for people to burn furnaces, electric furnaces and, of course, people to smoke and use electricity outside. The government also adopted an action plan on energy efficiency in the previous mandate. The Energy Efficiency Action Plan was adopted two years ago, three years ago, and it would be very good for us to implement it in all its elements, including, in particular, the provision of means for implementing energy efficiency policies. A third point of national interest is the sustainable supply of, say, a sustainable aspect. Therefore, the European Union's orientation was also extremely important and therefore the climate and energy package has been adopted and Slovenia has very clear objectives, both in terms of CO2 emissions and in terms of the share of renewable resources in final consumption by 2020. And I do not understand how it is possible to argue that we are going to continue or that we are actually going to start intensively into certain projects that are moving Slovenia away from these objectives without having a final picture of how we are going to achieve these objectives by 2020. And it is not true that some decisions have been made in the previous government regarding these facilities. That's not true. And one thing that is very important in sustainable use is that we are even aware of the approach that the European Union and the world want to take in these directives. This is an approach to be more responsible for the environment and for future generations, but not to opt for individual investments due to short-term or medium-term economic, social or political interests. Therefore, this sustainable part must still be embedded in some strategic reflection and decisions on individual projects must be within these frameworks. It is very difficult for me to imagine that we will take decisions forward and define the frameworks in parallel; it will be difficult to get something big into tighter frameworks. However, Slovenia has extremely narrow frameworks for sustainable criteria for the climate and energy package. In the past mandate, the Ministry of the Economy has undertaken a study, an evaluation of how many renewable resources, the economically eligible, we have at all available to meet these objectives. And we're very much on the line, with a very restrictive policy towards fossil resources. Of course, before we have these answers, how we will achieve these goals, the binding objectives of the European Union, which are primarily our responsibility and our objectives - these must be our objectives, because these are the goals for future generations and for ourselves as well - it is difficult to make partial decisions. Fourth criteria, competitiveness. We must bear in mind that production resources and all investments in electricity will give an optimal cost-effective profit, result. If you want, according to your household, new production facilities have to give cheap electricity - why? - because it's a cost to companies that incorporate it into the cost of the product. And the Slovenian economy cannot be competitive if it buys or uses more expensive electricity than in other countries, in its direct competitors. To decide on competitive investments, this financial aspect of all investment is still important. And allow me, Prime Minister, to stop here with that energy permit and one concrete investment that you have used. Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant with 600 megawatts was also included in the resolution of the national projects endorsed by the previous government. This is an important project and I support it - under those assumptions. At that time, we informed us from the Heat Power Plant of Scotland that this investment was worth 600 million euros. And this is also in the resolution of national projects, €600 million for 600 megawatts. This is recorded in the document and, in fact, this has also prompted not least a decision on a positive energy permit. Although the energy permit is a very technical bureaucratic document, it is not a political decision. This is not to say, some discretion of policy or minister, this is the decision of officials when they get the role and of course see whether this facility "feeds" into the power system of Slovenia. I was skeptical, and that's why it took a little longer. Because such a large block, 600 megawatts, is a problem with the visa of system services. If such a 600 megawatt block falls out, 600 megawatts should be found at the moment. Slovenia has the largest source, half the nuclear power plant, which is in Brestnica, to cover about 350 megawatts of output, for 600 megawatts. And this will have to be built and this is not included in any investment documentation. Under the rules of the European Union, each country must have as much reserve as its largest individual block. Slovenia owns half of its nuclear power plant, 350 megawatts, and therefore has appropriate system services. It's not for the other blocks. And I then checked with the Energy Agency whether they were evaluating - the only competent professional institution in Slovenia that cared not least as a regulator - and after a certain time, I received a positive opinion from this agency. That's when I signed the power permit. However, this is not a financial document. The energy permit shall also be issued by the Ministry to private investors, to anyone. It's not a question and it doesn't matter how much the investment costs, it's an investor thing. And that's why it's so drastic - because we've heard that this investment is now worth about a billion 130 million euros, as the finance minister said recently. So it's probably a reason to think about it a little bit. Not that this investment is being erased, I am against it, I think Block 6 is important and necessary for the Slovenian energy system. Block 6 is important and necessary and still makes sense, including energy, that I am not talking about all other aspects related to jobs and mining. The investment was radically stimulated by, last but not least, the exceptional conjunctural movements we witnessed in 2007 and 2008, and negotiations would therefore be reopened at this point. I'm glad these forecasts are open negotiations with equipment suppliers. And if this investment goes back to some rational level, there's no dilemma about it. Let me tell you one thing. When we listened and read and also answered the Minister, if the costs of financing represent nothing - of course, that is not true. If the structure is as mentioned, it will require both State guarantee loans and commercial loans to do so. I've calculated it myself, and I'm going into trouble with anyone here, that 20 euros per megawatt hour is just the cost of paying off interest and principals for 20-year loans with a moratorium on one megawatt hour. 20 euros per megawatt hour is an addition. 20 euros per megawatt hour is the production price for all taxes, such as Drava power plants. So all we have here is funding costs. But I know why it's not included. Because it's actually the idea to go into what I also say is a national test - to be imprudent. So that other energy facilities would finance this loan, Drava, Soča, Sava, nuclear power plant and everyone. So we'd all be funding this project. This is as if in one production several production plants, profit centres and three profit centres would finance investments in the fourth profit centre and, of course, profit centre 4 would not have any costs with this and no financing costs. Of course I wouldn't, because others would pay for it. But this is imprudent and we will not create competition and market conditions in Slovenia. We must strive to pay electricity at the lowest price, so we must also choose investments and finance them to give us competitive energy. The fourth thing is the development of the market. I see that the ideas of how to get all production facilities under the same denominator, to make a monopoly are being revived. Firstly, I am sure that you may convince the Slovenian Ombudsman of this, but I doubt it, but certainly not the European one. Because it was a prerequisite - Mr. Digger knows it well - that nukes, i.e. ELES GENA was unable to get into holding. ELES GEN was always an independent company, separate from the holding company. There was never a nuke under the holding. Why not? Since we could not have done so at the time, we would have convinced that competition law, which was significantly more loose than it is now eight years ago, that we would monopolize everything in Slovenia again and we would have one that would dictate investments and that would trade in electricity. And the respected Prime Minister of the Government, under the idea of pooling electricity systems, is the idea of centralising electricity trading in the Republic of Slovenia. This is the idea of Mr Stoklj, a close friend of Mr Kopač, who wants all the electricity from Slovenia, which is produced, but most cheaply, to market, in order to provide cash flow, and perhaps evil is also a huge investment. That's the point. The goal is to raise money in these companies, not to follow these national interests that I have listed here before. So in Slovenia we need to develop the market, it is not only good for us, it is good for us and we need to work because of directives of the European Union, we need to have more competitive electricity providers. If we look at these two pillars that they are now, they have loads and tasks. For example, the first pillar within the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant has printing money, these are Drava Power Plants, which produce huge hydropower at a very low price, and also have more expensive producers, needed investments such as the Termoelectric Power Plant Šostanj and the Thermoelectric Trbovlje; we have another pillar. We have another pillar, which has a nuclear power plant, has a thermoelectric Brestanica, which is a very expensive source, has a Sava power plant, which is also not a very cheap source. And he's got another investment assignment. And it's not true that this is a comparison of running one with running shoes the other with the armors. They are both about the same, and this is also demonstrated by the business results of both systems over the last period. According to production, both profit and all other business results are equivalent. Business reports are available, you can review, view and comment. Therefore, it is of interest that we have more than one bidder and thus the real development of competition. And it is obvious that, despite the fact that many here have also predicted how two national competitors will compete, that is exactly what happened. In fact, what Gene-I did was a breakthrough story in the functioning of the market. For the first time, there was a lower price, mainly due to a slightly more balanced market, the supply was maintained or even higher due to good hydrology. Demand, on the other hand, has fallen as a result of the recession, the market has levelled and thus has become a pressure on prices that have fallen. And if the market didn't work, the price wouldn't have fallen, because the market started to work, but prices actually went down. And now we also have a situation where many providers, including distribution companies, offer cheaper energy. And that's right. That is also why I say that the establishment of two pillars was not a necessary and sufficient condition. However, it must have been needed, since in a monopoly organisation the market will never work, irrespective of the equilibrium of supply and demand. However, in the case of several tenderers, the market is starting to operate on a balanced offer and demand, and this has proved to be the case. The idea of regrouping the pillars is, of course, the idea of establishing a monopoly and diametrically opposite it. Of course, markets will soon start laughing, raising prices, and that will be paid by our people and our economy. For the last time, sixth time, in addition to developing the market, transparency is transparency. It is correct to know which of the production facilities produces energy and at what cost, to know how costs are optimised in each production facility and to clarify these relations. These relations are already covered in the holding structure, where we have these so-called transfer prices, because the holding company buys from individual production facilities at the price at which it seems to be able to operate and the production facilities hide this money in one way or another. These are facts. This is not knowledge. And the typical case was a complication in Šostanje, when suddenly the market price on the market was higher than the transfer price agreed between Šostanje and Holding, and then he told Šostanja that they would sell themselves, they would no longer sell to the holding company. Five years before the market price was significantly lower than the own or production price of Slashing, everything was fine; however, Šostanj was satisfied that he could sell to the holding company, not to the market, because he could not sell it. So, respectable, we want transparent relations between individual actors in the electricity sector in the Republic of Slovenia. Reunification, all in one jackal, will suppress the optimisation processes, will also suppress processes, not least some rational investments, but the functioning of the market in our country. So, Mr President of the Government, we need political consensus on these six points of national interest. Please conduct procedures, both with regard to the Green Paper and everything else, to confront positions in this area, including political ones, and above all professional ones, to find the best possible solution in the end - it is probably too late for us - for future generations.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. A representative of the Government may be involved in this debate. The President told me that he would speak for the Government as well. Director-General of the Energy Directorate - Ministry of Economy, Mag. Janez the Digger. The first one has the word, Mr Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable representatives of the government! It is very good to speak for the former Energy Minister, an economy which covered energy within this department. He and I have had quite a bit of controversy in the past, even here within this House, precisely because of the investment he has given her the most attention to. This is actually a declaration of support, but to do everything to ensure that implementation does not occur. I hope to say this at this point after all the experiences I've had. And when we talk about the price of 600 megawatts - 600 million for 600 megawatts. In 2004, this assessment held, from 2004 to 2009, it took 5 years, and the investment stalled mainly because of your inactivity despite forecast support, and you are responsible for a more expensive investment in Scotland. Now, on the basis of the encouragement of this investment, you are talking about the fact that the investment is not acceptable. This is about that, we are in favour of investing in Block 6, but we want this investment to cost us nothing or cost us as it was in 2004, when they were on the market, including equipment suppliers, a different situation than they are now, but the late and higher price goes to your account and it would be quite good if someone were responsible for it in this country. Interestingly, the union record of the President of the Government reads as follows - and I quote: "After the selection of the supplier for the equipment of Block 6 in TES, which was not the same as Mr. Viszak's wishes, the project Block 6 was very visible. This is a very serious accusation in this text. To our surprise, his writing to the TES, HSE and HSE Board of Supervisory Boards was about the requirements for explaining the selection process. From the letter itself, it is possible to understand that the letter was drawn up by unchosen suppliers, two substantively identical paragraphs, and Mr Vizjak only signed it. The document is attached as an annex. This was written down by union representatives. These, Mr Vizjak, are serious accusations that are likely to have to be addressed. That didn't grow on my cornea. Any attempt to link investment decision-making with the implementation of the renewed national energy programme and the inclusion of individual investment in the programme is actually an attempt to stop the investment. This means playing with the energy future of this country. For the energy sector, it would be devastating if investments in new production sources and transfer to infrastructure were halted due to the crisis. As has already been said, the great advantage of the Slovenian energy image is that it is divided into one-third hydro, one-third nuclear and one-third coal. So I'm considering everything under coal, not just the Chestnut thermal power plant. As we have heard, they are also dealing with these problems in the Trbów, in Zasavje, and they want a better solution than the current regime foresees. Of course, their demands are entirely in place. However, if we think back a little, we can also recall a referendum that failed for the Thermoelectric Trbovlje because of the then opposition of the opposition back then. So, the Krško Nuclear Power Plant is in the 24-hour production lane with a very good percentage of exploitation. The hydropower plant, the production from the restored source of hydropower of our rivers, depends on time. We all know that. One third of domestic coal -- and that's the only energy we have at home right now. We've known gas stories since this year. It may improve, but it will always be someone who has the power to turn the valve or pipe on a particular section and prevent us from delivering. In the Shaleska Valley, to discuss it locally, the consequences of mining were the purchase of 347 residential buildings - read most of the sinks for coal mining. Where these locals were, there is now a lake or a hilly area. Some 2,000 people were displaced, not because of their desire, but because it was decided that electricity would be obtained in the Valley of Shaleska. Homes were submerged, people moved. This is more than many municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia, among the ones we have today. That I will not be too long to discuss that I will not be taken anywhere else in the debate, but let me just talk about some misinformation, not to say lies that have spread in the past period since the change of government forward, when suddenly it happened that some people are thinking differently. I've given you a few reasons before. They say there's not enough coal and make a calculation, 600 megawatt block will operate all the time. And of course, if we multiply the 600 megawatt block by 8,760 hours per year, we get 5,200 gigawatt hours of electricity, we need 5.7 million tons of coal to do that. In fact, coal needs to be significantly less. If we look at it, say, Block 4 at night works on a minimum, day at maximum. Block 4 and 5 regulate the entire energy image of Slovenia. It's a so-called trapezoid and not a belt production, as it happens, in a nuclear power plant. If this is not the case, if the Termoelectrica Šostanj is not in this system, this system does not work in Slovenia. I've talked about gas as an energy guy before. If we expect each block to stop at least 20 times at the end of the week, one block will run at 7,700 hours, if we convert hours into equivalent hours we get 6,500, and we can't even multiply it by 600 megawatts of power, that's probably because that's the gross power of the thermoelectric block 6 own use, heat energy. If we subtract that, we have 530 megawatts left, so we get 3,450 gigawatt hours a year, and we need 2.9 million tonnes of coal to do that. The difference that block 6 needs until what coal mine Velenje plans is, of course, the one that will run in the next block 5. Coal imports are not foreseen. That was the next lie that spread. There's not enough coal. We'll import it. That's not true. There is no provision for imports of coal into the Shale Valley. Next, the power of block 6 is too high. For lignite used as an energy for electricity generation, it is calculated that the best use there is approximately 800 and further megawatts of power. So in this sense, this is exactly the right size, at least, but still the right size. The project is ecologically controversial, and these arguments that I have listed no longer stand for serious judgment. When I look at these graphs, they speak for themselves. All trends are strongly, strongly downwards due to the investment that is projected and is under way. And when I talked about the consequences for the Spatial Power Plant, of course, in the environment, I can say that the environment that favours this investment is also because environmental solutions will relate to better quality of life than at this point. We're not stupid in the Valley to land on an object that would make our living conditions worse. So it's getting better. And given all that I've talked about before, what happened to this valley in the past, it's not a social project, but this valley is actually justified. It will not be possible to close the financial structure - it is really difficult to close it in the way it has been since 2004, but in spite of everything from the Prime Minister's response, I see that it will be possible to do so. So there have been a lot of untruths in the past, including the price of electricity. From somewhere, it came to be calculated that it would cost €6100 per megawatt-hour, together with all the necessary coupons, it would cost only €440 and compare it with the price from hydropower plants, €5.45, and from the Krsko nuclear power plant, €60. In doing so, you do not take into account the relevant infrastructure necessary for the construction of hydroelectric power plants, if we are talking about Savi, and do not take into account the costs of decommissioning nuclear waste at the Krško nuclear power plant. But not to take this as an objection to all these projects in the field of hydropower in the field of nuclear energy. It is only a fair comparison in price, and we all know that it is necessary and that we will have to make decisions as soon as possible on the construction of the bloc of two Krška Nuclear Power Plants. In this case, of course, if this investment runs further, we will continue to do so, but if Block 6 is not implemented and if we bring it in at the present time, of course, this is the beginning of the coal mine closure in Velenje, that is the cost for this country - the one that is not currently envisaged - in the coming years when this coal mine would close. Of course, payments are welcome because the project is cheaper and we will correct the mistake that has been made in the past. The Strategic Energy Policy Council at the Economic Chamber of Slovenia supports all these investments and, as I said, investment has all the advantages; so the own electricity prices, which will be lower, are both ecological, which means greater environmental protection in our valley, and of course the economic eligibility and the necessary electricity coming from this pool. I wanted to say this mainly because in the past days, weeks, months, there have been a lot of untruths throughout Slovenia, there has been talk about what Mr Bogovic has said, that now two lobbying centres, which are fighting each for their own piece, are even forgotten about one part of Slovenia or more parts of Slovenia, who are also trying to fit into this, whether they are already placed and want to preserve the energy situation, such as it is, to add new value to it. This is not a fight, it is not a misunderstanding or disagreement within a profession that supports all these projects; it is essentially a policy, a decision to finance, how to finance and how to bring as much money as possible where they have relied on it in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Contic. Mr Jerovšek was asked procedurally before I decided to take a recess for the College's announced meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr President, you have twice informed this assembly that, in the absence of the President of the Government, he will represent the Government. Director-General for Energy. He came with Mr. Cwickl, and I think that Mr. Cwickl should be aware of what is stated in the Rules of Procedure and what he has strictly carried out in the previous term - who are the government's authorised representatives? There are two reasons. I am aware that Mr Lahovnik, Minister, has an electoral campaign and is working for the party and that he wants to move to the European Parliament, but we are discussing the interests of the country and must be the primary interests of the country. Nor is Mr Erjavac, who has a congress today, I don't know how you've dealt with it, but here we have accommodations in the space of energy facilities. On the other hand, Mr Kopač as director - in fact, the energy sector holds him whenever he is an official, regardless of which ministry he is, he is an energy official; but he was an energy minister, there was energy there, now at the Ministry of Economy, energy here. It's connected to a lot of money flowing in energy. I am also associated with the transfer of the centre of ELES to Ljubljana in 2001, when it was not susceptible to any arguments, we have very bad consequences, and it also signed the nuclear agreement without complications. He spoke of Croatia at the time that there was no bad side. The Croats "painted" even though it was initially specified, otherwise, all the good sides, Croatia do not comply with this agreement. So we have to have, here are the ones responsible for the rescue. So, after the break, I'm Minister Lakhovnik, if the Prime Minister is detained. I suggest you comply strictly with business regulations.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek for your warning. I will propose to the College of Presidents of the National Assembly to determine whether the business conditions are met. Article 235, paragraph 5, states: "If the Minister and the Secretary of State are detained for obligations, in EU institutions or for international obligations, they may be replaced by the Director-General of the Directorate in the Ministry at the meeting of the working body. Such a replacement may only be made at a meeting of the National Assembly if the College of Presidents of the National Assembly so decides." So we're going to discuss your warning, and we're going to decide. However, the National Assembly will assess whether it has an interest to listen to the people involved or to raise the issue only in order for each Member to express his or her opinion. Since it won't work otherwise, I'm taking a break until 1:00. The meeting of the College will begin at 12 p.m., and we will continue at 13 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u24	At the meeting which had just ended, the College considered a proposal to replace the Director-General of the Directorate in the Ministry, in accordance with Article 235 fifth paragraph. Such a proposal has not been adopted and therefore, of course, v.d. The Director-General will not be able to get the floor. I also welcome the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, who has joined us in the Chamber. The word is "Loyze Posedel," please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u25	Thank you very much, distinguished Parliamentary President, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. They say that anything or any unnecessary thing in life is good for something. This question, too, by colleague Bogovic, about energy policy is for some good. Otherwise, today's meeting itself and the debate will have no significant impact or contribution to Slovenian energy policy, but it is good for the President of the Government to have the opportunity in a written reply and presentation here in Parliament to highlight the fact that both Slovenia and the other countries are at a turning point in the direction and acquisition of energy. Here Slovenia is no exception or is even more sensitive and is therefore very important decisions to be made. Today's meeting is also important because this is the way in which a greater promotion is made or a reference to a document that is in the public debate on the so-called Green Paper, where the main orientations are written, the main objectives and objectives of Slovenia's energy policy, and that this Green Paper is even more exposed in this way, and probably more people who will read and give their proposals and comments in all these six weeks of public debates. This debate is also important because we have heard certain necessary investments from the President of the Government, we have clearly heard how Slovenia will decide on new energy sources, whose investments and what resources it is possible to achieve that common objective and the demand for reduced emissions, after a greater share of renewable energy sources. It is also very good that the question was raised in such a way that it was also made clear from a clear answer that investment in the Šostanj Termoelectrica, in Block 6, is not under question, but that this is an important decision to move forward. Otherwise, the President used the term to make it worse if such an investment did not continue. I think that even more appropriate is the term used in the Strategic Energy Council at the Economic Chamber, in order that this would be disastrous if we did not continue this investment in the 6th bloc, to continue the investments, which, for inexplicable reasons, also stood for a certain period of time. The 2004 strategy, which had already drawn a very good starting point for our energy balance, highlighted the fact that Slovenia has more energy consumption than it has produced, that only four-fifths of the needs are provided with its own resources, that we have an appropriate structure: a third of the production from thermal power plants, a third of the hydropower plants and a third of the nuclear power plant. It is therefore important that investments continue in an equally coordinated and balanced manner. This ongoing debate has given us an opportunity to discuss or expose these incomprehensible delays and complications that have been encountered in the implementation of this investment. Here probably the question of colleague Bogovic may not have been taken seriously that this debate would have taken place at all, because I am sure that a detailed discussion of the causes of the delay or of the individual actions of the previous Government has shown that this was irresponsible, that delays were caused, which are difficult to understand, and that it will probably be necessary to discuss, as has already been said, the responsibility of why, for example, the former Minister of Economy took as many as 13 months to sign the energy agreement. If he had not listened to him in the performance when he represented the position of the SDS Group, he would not have believed that his scepticism until that investment had been the one that kept him from deciding on the signature when he received the opinion of the Energy Agency. This shows that decisions were not made on a professional basis. The professional basis for this investment was clear, known far back and not at the time when the former minister had this dilemma or was skeptical of this investment. That is why, unfortunately, we are obliged to listen to all the meetings of the Committee on the Economy when the former Minister of the Economy interprets the only saving truth and proves how the previous government acted without mistakes and how it does not know and cannot make the right decisions, it is clear again that there was not exactly what the reply itself demanded, that is transparency. As we look at how certain investments in energy have taken place, it is also right to open a debate on where the water fund funds have been spent, so that we will certainly highlight this in this debate those mayors who are in areas that are under flood risk, and to see that the water fund funds are likely to be spent on the bottom of the Sava. It is therefore right that this debate is open, that this will be discussed and that we will also be able to discuss what has been expressed in the President's response and also in the former Minister of Economy's reply, how long-lasting the complexities and procedures in the area of spatial legislation are. This legislation is incomprehensiblely complex, and it is also incomprehensiblely expensive for an investor, and in this way a number of investments are urgently needed. It is therefore appropriate to pour in these areas pure wine, why it is necessary and why it is possible to drive a certain investment through a reduced process or through some innovative process, such as that done at the Regional Waste Management Centre in Celje, but the legislation was being prepared or adopted so that projects could run. In individual projects, when this political will did not exist, these complications may be greater. The attitude towards the environment, which is still of great importance, is likely to also expose the responsibility of ministers for the environment, both the former and the current ones. If we listen to the former Minister's attitude towards these deposits and the current one, which so easily declares that we will continue to drive the trash to dumps that no longer meet the conditions. In this written way, we will simply accept all the penalties that this country or congregations will have to pay because we do not respect certain accepted criteria. The same could happen if the investment in Block 6 of the Šostjanje Thermoelectric Power Plant was still delayed or failed. There are also very clear criteria for 2013 and 2016, and the redemption of over-emission allowances will begin in 2016. And if that investment isn't made by then, they're waiting for the state to punish. And if it were a decision not to continue this investment, a fine of EUR 25 million would also be at risk. That is why it is likely that everyone today has been able to put aside that the President of the Government has so clearly answered the question of Mr Bogovic that this investment is continuing to be necessary and that there are no reservations and that everything must be done to ensure that this investment is completed as soon as possible. It is therefore again incomprehensible that the former Minister declares that this investment, Block 6, is important and necessary. Then it is really incomprehensible why this delay that occurred in the previous term. It has been pointed out that the resolution of 2004 is very good, professionally very good, but very little has been realized. Why was this no longer done during the last mandate period? Why was it not also prepared for the other energy facilities listed today, why have more procedures not already been carried out? Why has not more documentation been made so that the use of European funds from the Structural Funds could be greater than is clear in this mandate? Why all the facts about Block 6 then play with the fate of so many jobs in the Valley of Shale? Why is it also possible to ask questions about the start of an investment from the individual records provided by the members of the union or by others involved in this story that the operator or supplier is likely to fit in with someone or something else. It is right that this debate is open, that these issues will also be made clear, and that it continues under this strategy as it is written. Although I personally assess that today is also the time that the President and the members of the Government will have to spend in this Parliament, too precious for what they will hear, it is still important and necessary for these answers to be clear on the table. Those we don't know yet and those we need to clear up, but I'm sure we'll be there. Above all, I am sure that this debate on the Green Paper will help us, as a country, to make an important right and timely decision in this field of energy supply, so I support this President's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u27	Your Honors are here! Energy is certainly one of the factors that burdens and starts the budget of companies, as well as the family budget. The choice of suppliers on the market has given us an opportunity to lose our lives and reduce the bill for a lot of money. It is also one of the contribution measures for the survival of the economy, especially those which are strictly linked to electricity consumption through their activities. The conclusion that the consumption of electricity from imports will decrease to 15%, which will also reduce prices, requires consideration as to whether it is still necessary to build Block 6. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is clearly in favour of expanding the capacity and production of electricity, as the state must ensure as much energy independence as possible. The balance of electricity in a number of different ways, such as thermal energy, hydro energy and nuclear energy, is only part of the possibility of electricity generation [[..]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] ‘ Because in the world they also know other possibilities that have proved to be good. [[...]] It is certainly necessary to think, for, as the Prime Minister has said, they will decide on energy-efficient projects that will be [[..]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I'm afraid the time has run out. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u29	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government and co-worker! Initially, I would like to say that this whole debate and some kind of seemingly controversial dispute between the two regions, as it sounds public, is, in my opinion, because of various organisational matters and speculations in the field of energy, so I think that the Government needs to work hard on these organisational matters and to lead energy in such an organisational scheme that will be good for energy and that will be good for Slovenia. In Slovenia, I believe, we have a favourable relationship with individual manufacturers, because I can say that in addition to smaller producers in the field of renewable energy sources, where I have to point out that we are extremely lagging behind with all these procedures that are necessary to build, to be able to drive or put into space some renewable plant such as small hydroelectric plants such as photovoltaic power plants and other energy facilities, that these hands are too long. Individual investors wishing to invest in this part of the energy sector have waited too long for the relevant documents. But as for the main, this is a good relationship, a third ratio: nuclear, hydro energy and thermal and/or thermal power plants. I am convinced that energy policy is a long-term policy, taking into account energy needs, taking account of ecology, taking into account reliable and affordable supply. Price and environmental is certainly the most favourable hydro energy, but of course taking into account all the costs incurred in the construction of individual hydropower plants. And here we go or we go during this period and back to playing our legislation, such as the Environmental Protection Act or the Water Act. I'm guessing there's been a big mistake. In recent years, we have debated a lot that the concession contract states that most, I think, 90. 95% of the money from the water fund benefits from investments in hydropower facilities. That's a big mistake, I think. All other areas in Slovenia are affected. And this is literally unfair to the environment, unfair to leadership, unfair to all other areas in Slovenia. In my firm opinion, these are costs that are still part of the individual investment, since, after all, the investment then also brings on a long period of adequate revenue. I think it will have to be avoided in any way in the future. Otherwise, we will have a complete standstill of investment in the water sphere. I remember, however, when we passed the Water Act, that we spoke clearly about what the money from the water fund would be for. As far as nuclear energy is concerned, it has a very small environmental impact, but other problems, or the threshold of acceptability among the population, are completely different in nuclear energy. And the third, which is now the most subject of this debate, is the thermal power plant. So all the thermal power plants, and especially the debate is about the TEC. I think the environmental emission commitments in the European Union are clear, and something has to be done. The current plants are irrational, so the price of electricity produced is, of course, too high. In this area too, it is necessary to invest in TEŠ, in Termoelectric Šostanj, because at least two plants or two blocks are completely irrational, obsolete and the necessary cancellations over the coming years. After 2016, production will be significantly reduced if we do not move these investments forward. As a result, this also means a significant reduction in production or the closure of jobs in a funnel pool. Of course, I would say, with a clear definition of how to proceed with other thermal energy facilities. As we read in recent months, there are many misleading, conflicting data on the projected price of electricity from TEC, on environmental emissions, on price, on the purchase of emission rights, etc. If there is any benefit from this debate today, I am sure that it will be properly re-examined or that clear data on the economic viability of this investment will also be made available to the public, so that there will be no doubt that this investment is necessary, as is needed in Slovenia, for all other investments in the energy field. And to conclude. Someone mentioned earlier that today is a global day for combating climate change and that such investments are, of course, an integral part of this fight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u31	Today's debate is one of those that we can seriously doubt will achieve its purpose. The parliamentary hour, as the Members' questions and the initiative are called, is intended to answer briefly, clearly and at that time the most pressing social questions by the President of the Government, ministers and those who have been asked questions. However, when it comes to a request for a debate on some content such as the national programme for the development of electricity in the Republic of Slovenia, it is simply a point that goes beyond this point, so it should go completely the other way. Just because we voted that, we are also discussing this today. Somebody said if there's any result from that, it might be. I believe that some have also expected that the result will also be that some estimates on the 2004-2008 mandate period will be revalued and that it was better than it actually was. Today, just for illustration, it is not possible for the previous minister to say how it was reflected together with the sixth block of Yes, six million for six megawatts in 2004. [[...]] The difference was made between 2004 and 2008, and I don't know how many times. But who, in what way, why did he do it? If you want to know this, Mr Bogovic, ask Mr Visiak, a coalition partner from the previous term, not to burden the entire assembly and even the Slovenian public. If you want to know what happened to some of the unrealised things the Republic of Slovenia should have done after the adoption of the European Strategy for Sustainable and Competitive and Security Energy issued by the Commission of the European Community, 8. 3. How Can I Help You? 6 / 8 3. 2006. We're more than two years late today. Nothing. Ask him. But I didn't want to be politicized here in this way, because, as Mr President said, I don't think the result is going to be. But you did deliver some material, and at least you made some effort, but it's 23. The 4th apparently came to the National Assembly, and we got him on the bench today. This is incomprehensible. I don't know what we got from Mr. Bogovich. 4. But today we got to the table. I do not understand and therefore cannot discuss these additional arguments in a qualified manner. It must be said, however, that what was heard today and read from the magnetogram, what the President of the Government has said, is evidence that there is a thorough work in this area. He said where our strategic orientations are, where our current potentials are and how we should develop together, and how the government is still aware that the European Union is also dependent on imports of 50% of energy, if we are talking about other sources, and Slovenia is also on the road to achieving 70% of dependency in 20-30 years, which would be bad. And from this response I have heard, I am convinced that what can now be expected is that there will be thorough analyses and assessments by the end of the year, which potentials exist in Slovenia. It's a shame that there's no developed technology yet to be able to dig coal in Gorički, which is huge enough to get to electricity most cheaply. But this is not yet possible, but it will probably be in the near future even as technology moves forward. Of course, it is necessary to revalue and assess what is going on in Zasavje. It turned out to be a wrong, forced, and swift decision in the past. And for four years, thank God that your mandate has expired, for now you should choose the visa of what you quietly wanted to extend your pumping or bathing mandate and the closure would move on. Well, now that's not your concern. You quickly forced the referendum because it had to be shown that the red ones didn't deserve it or anything else. And I believe that now is the time to answer this question for the first time, because, for the first time in this mandate, it is the first time in the National Assembly that we will discuss things more rationally with our own time and with the questions that we will be referring to the Government, if, in fact, we are preparing points for the National Assembly meeting as we have put ourselves in the Rules of Procedure, not just that way. Everyone is aware that today it is impossible to avoid a different debate than it was possible years ago when only energy sources could be discussed, on the other hand, on the use side. Surely now the issues of climate change and all other things are already linked to the very core. We like to talk about money, on the one hand about investing in energy facilities, in the environment and ultimately about how much we pay as households or as an economy for this energy. In all contexts, however, it is always necessary to have all the basic goals ahead of us, namely, that the three of us who have to lead us in these matters in order not to make a quick decision either on the 6th block of thermoelectric power plant, or whether or not to shut down Trbovlje or RTH or not, or go to another block in Krškem or not, or over-exhaust the Drava pool and pour money to others to quickly reorganise the organization, such as the other energy pillar and so on, which all happened in a very short time. You can look at these things for the past period and you'll see that it's not right. In my view, the maximum awareness that we are aware of some sustainable decisions, the sustainability of providing these resources is, above all, likely to have to think about the environment, the competitiveness that we are without it anyway, and the security of supply is, in my opinion, only within these objectives that the European Union has also set itself. And in relation to partnership, to the Eastern Partnership and cooperation with the countries of the Caspian region or elsewhere, so that we can also ensure this security of supply over a longer period. I bit my tongue because I actually said I wouldn't discuss the content of such an important matter in this way, in answer to a question, because it's simply not possible. If there is something important about the questions that have been sent, it is that an initiative can be made to prepare things for the National Assembly in the way they should be, not just to discuss some point that is of particular interest to someone at some point. However, I hope that the explanations that Mr Bogovic wants answers will be very quickly on the table and that he will receive them mainly from the former minister and all those who work on these things most and know them best, and that is in his congregation or his region and in all those entities - some say so, others say otherwise. But I would not, at this point in time, be rational when it comes to certain things that are actually being done on the basis of what is fundamental: providing electricity in Slovenia in sufficient quantities, in conditions of environmentally acceptable acquisition and all other things. Where does it cost, whether it will be there or there, or whether it will flow from one end of Slovenia to the other I have already said that I would be happy to get even in Gorički to get that coal there and use it and that the social environment there would get some developmental potential, but for now it is not possible, even though there are the largest coal stocks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government. I'm sorry, but it's a good thing we know a little history. And if we know her, we see that no matter what happens tomorrow. In this country, even before the nuclear power plant, hydroelectric power plants were also installed on Drava, and the Drava pool was the one that was actually powering the whole country. And from here on out, other capacities were being built. I will not talk about what is necessary and what is necessary, but one of the discussers said that this debate would achieve its purpose and I do not expect results. And I'm not sure she'll achieve any purpose, let alone any results. I am proposing in the National Assembly that I do not recall the disastrous management of the Ministry when Minister Janez Kopač was Minister and, I will say, the death blow to the energy at the time when he decided in 2001 that the Elektro Economy of Slovenia would destroy and establish Holding. This is where this history begins. He established Holding and Elektroměstvo Slovenije, which was in Maribor all the time, moved to Ljubljana. The STA record stated, inter alia: "with regard to the headquarters of Holding, the Government confirmed the proposal of Minister Kopač, who proposed Ljubljana as a seat. Against his proposal, two ministers of the SLS, the SKD and one representative of the ZLSD, namely the United List of Social Democrats, abstained." Members, not only from Styria, but from twenty-two Members, among them members of the three coalition parties, we wrote a letter to the then President of the Government, Dr. Janez Drnovšk, the deceased, God grant him well that, of course, the attempt to destroy the Elektro Economy of Slovenia in Maribor and the transfer of this to Ljubljana is totally unacceptable shameful act and humiliating. Even so far, Minister Kopač later experienced interpellation in the following year, where one of the burden points was that I did not speak of others. Colleagues and colleagues, I'm critical of the then Minister Copacz that he did this and made a catastrophic mistake. I was also critical three years ago when the last Minister of Economy, Andrej Vizjak, set up a new holding company, a new GEN or what I know of what it was called, and held Slovenian HCE power plants, so to speak, divided into two parts. At that time, we also raised our voices and said, regardless of the political colours of the coalition or opposition, let there be a third energy pillar. These things don't actually lead, in my opinion, in the right direction. As with a number of political cases, and see if the three coalition parties were against it, if the ministers of the government were against it, of course, with the arrogance of the then LDS with the forty MPs, they did what they did. And I would like to point out that such arrogance will come back sooner rather than later as a boomerang or one or the other. And in this case, unfortunately, our entire energy in our country is happening again. Instead of building an overcrowding power plant on Kozjak today, let's say we were preparing for a new nuclear power plant, or that we would do much more on an alternative such as photovoltaics, such as wind power or gas power plant in Kidrič, which was also in some projects. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] already loaded. [[...]] This is not good, and we will still have much to say about energy, and we will have to put things in the right direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Bogovich, as your candidate, you can perform at any time, you don't have to ask procedurally. Then I'll give you my word. First, he asked Mr Jože Tanko for a procedural request. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u35	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that there is no suitable way to hold today's meeting of the National Assembly. The coalition voted and helped to vote that the President of the Government or the Government answers the question. And today there is no one from the coalition here, with the government, who should be, according to the rules of procedure, in order to respond to the debates of Members. There's no Prime Minister who's gone. At the College, we have heard that the Foreign Minister has an international obligation in Prekmurje to "talk with minorities", I quote literally. The secretary of state is somewhere talking to some companies. The meeting of the National Assembly was decided by reference. I hope that you have foreseen and agreed on the presence of those to whom this item applies in the coalition, the President and all those to whom you have set and planned the date for the continuation of the meeting. I therefore suggest that the Government will not remain for an hour and a half to discuss this point, that we stop this point, that we move to the next item on the agenda - this is an act on the appointment of a parliamentary inquiry and that, once the participation of the President of the Government, the Minister of State or the Secretary of State, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we continue to discuss this item on the agenda. I believe that the debate on this point is so important that the National Assembly cannot afford that those who are most responsible in this country do not participate. Not particularly since the President of the Government of the National Assembly, at the time of his term of office, said that he would spend much more time in this high house than his predecessor. Even when the agenda item is asked for answers, the competent answers to the questions raised in this debate are not available at the time. Come on, read something and go. I do not think that the conduct of the President of the Government and of the departmental representatives is acceptable. I therefore propose that you order or vote that the point be terminated and that the following item of the agenda be continued after the half-time interruption. After the conclusion of the next item, we will return to this point and then also conclude the debate in the presence of representatives of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, the first thing is that this point has not been proposed by the Government. Therefore, they do not need to be present in this respect either. By the way, the President of the Government is in the National Assembly and is also in the Chamber, he was in the Chamber at the time and he comes to the Hall and it is not necessary that he is not in the Hall, that he does not accompany the debate. From this point of view, I will also not put your proposal to the vote and we will continue to address this point. After all, we voted on our own, and we will also deal with it this way. Therefore, we continue with the point, procedurally Mr Bogovic as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u37	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleague Anderlich, you've been a Member for many years. Usually, the proposals of the opposition Members on questions and initiatives are voted on or not. The vast majority is that they don't. At this point, this vote was positive. I myself have also reviewed the voting method in very detail and tried to understand it. I can say that there was no single decision in a position where such motions are normally rejected. For example, in LDS there was only one vote against, in DesUS there was no vote against. And I also understood that when such a vote, when I was young, an inspired Member, it was explained to me that this was also an expression by a number of parliamentary groups, that it was a topic worth discussing. I am firmly convinced, based on the experience of what is happening for six months in the National Assembly, that we have had two-thirds of the topics, in my opinion, which we have talked about, which are significantly less crucial for the development of the Republic of Slovenia, for the competitiveness of our economy, for the environment in our Slovenia. We have often preferred to deal with opposition-positions, with matters that separate the Slovenian people. And I expected that today there would be less debates than you are trying to bring to the debate those you are discussing. That the matter is not so unfavourable and that we are talking about serious numbers, for example, this investment, which is as big as the Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško loans, which have been mentioned most recently as problematic things, are credits. This investment is of such rank as Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško. That is why I think it is worth talking about in the National Assembly before we issue the guarantee, as we have seen from the budget balance. I am not afraid of this debate, and I think, as I have already said, it is very honest that it is right to make this investment in order to make this investment happen. However, it is probably time for us to re-examine this in the current circumstances, which are certainly different from last year, whether it is the same route or a correction being made, given that electricity is on the market for half price, that on the other hand an environmental and energy package has been adopted in the European Union, which also brings certain obligations to our country. I am afraid that such a way of adopting a document, which is now called the Green Paper for the National Energy Programme, will further lead to its adoption by the end of the Government's mandate, along with comprehensive environmental impact assessments, in this loving country. Because I can't imagine how the overall assessments of individual objects or the entire program can be done quickly when we know how individual matters are done for individual objects. I think that this is the case in the way I said before, like most Slovenian resolution documents. The documents are general, broadly, at the resolution level. And when we look at them in five years, we see that it's a few percent. And if we were to act responsibly in this regard, I think that very quickly the Government could be able to identify such questions that have been raised, and come to the National Assembly with a very clear word. On my part, there was no wish but to get it and to talk about it responsibly. Energy is a subject that I believe the National Assembly must speak about. The relation to the direction of efficient energy use, to the renewable energy sources that have been implemented, has been very clearly demonstrated to me when adopting the budget rebalancing. The ones you didn't pay attention to, we went from 27 million to 13 million. And that's when I was discussing it this way. Last year, when the environmental programme was adopted from these means of how the funds are used, a whole range of environments had already prepared a document on the restoration of public buildings, such as primary schools and so on, according to tenders. There is no invitation to tender now, the direction is supposed to go in a different direction to go to state buildings, not to municipalities and the like. For me, the facts of the relationship are not the words in the resolution project. And I am afraid, as I have already said, that if we accept such broad debates for two years, forgive my colleague from the coalition and from the government, the time of the government will be over, but it is very crucial for European funds to be drawn up, it is fatal for environmental packages and similar cases to be met. That is why I believe that the debate is in place. She set out on a path I didn't want or my primary purpose was to understand this matter as an attack on the Heat Power Plant. Once again, as you speak today and give the label to the former minister that it is "saribal" on this project that it is not accepted. Dear colleagues, I say from my experience that it is better that it is not accepted, because if there were no 13-month delay, as you said, and perhaps a few months is necessary, it would be possible to be half a year late. At that time, this object or contract would have been signed at the time of the greatest conjuncture, when metals were the most expensive, when the project was also due to global conditions, lack of energy, expensive energy, so much more expensive. I firmly believe that at the next call, that is what Minister Križanič said the last time, or in the negotiations in this call, the price will be 150, 200 million, and savings will be recorded on this facility. In my opinion, it is better for the contract to be signed this year than a deadline, as if it had been shared in the fall with the obvious from another address. At the municipal level, investments where the forecasts were 5 million and more last year fell by 30%. And more and more, this trend, and that's why it seems completely depressed and again in line with the manners that are obviously the easiest in Parliament to focus on the work of your predecessors, to learn so much and so much clichés widely and to use them in 100 ways. And unfortunately, this is what happens in the National Assembly in every subject in which it is also tried on this subject. It was my intention to tell you once again as a proponent, I have met with this topic for the last decade in very responsible places and in those places where politics and the environment are spoken in a different way than is spoken in this environment. I wanted only my share of the contribution in this work, and I wanted to give my concern for this environment nothing more.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. Please. Wait a minute, Mr. Brultz, you want, just a moment, please. Mr. Tanko, you want procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Dear President, I think that there is a need to put an end to the practice that has occurred so far in the consideration of some of the draft laws that we have discussed in the National Assembly or in some of the debates, when the representatives of the directors, the representatives of the Government only came to the beginning of the meeting, said the opening government position and then considered only the conclusion. I propose, given that there is also a President of the Government's Strategic Energy Council among us, that we know what the Government's approach will be in this area. Will we first discuss the strategy and then the investment, or will we first join the investment and then adapt the strategy of the Republic of Slovenia? Investments under this mandate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u40	It's an abuse of procedural issues, obviously. That's the discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u41	I'm not finished yet, and I'd also like to ask if you could calm Mr Anderlich down a little bit, but he didn't get the word, and he's always jumping into words. And we Members of the National Assembly need to answer the basic response of those who are the most responsible, competent and appropriate responses in this country in order to carry out the tasks of the competent executive branch. The debate has already halved more than half and so far there has been no representative of the Government to respond to the complainant's claims and views or to the statements and views of the Members who have discussed it. Therefore, I propose, Mr President, that if we cannot get these answers during the debate, we should stop the debate, that those who need to discuss should consult and then respond accordingly. I do not think any other approach in this area is appropriate for the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Of course, I won't interrupt the meetings, the government's representatives are in the hall, they'll get the word when they want it, and when they want it, they can get it. In his opening remarks, the Prime Minister also answered the question raised. Thus, there is no reason for any procedural tricks or moves to delay this meeting. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u43	Have a nice hello again. The national programme for the resolution and planning of electricity problems in this area is very important. Let me say that in many ways I agree with Mr Anderlich, who was discussing it just before me. I'm hearing a lot today about a nuclear power plant, a hydro power plant on the bottom of the Sava, a chain in the middle of Savi, Mura, thermal power plants and the like. However, I would like to remind Members and Members that somewhere in western Slovenia we have a beautiful river Soča, the Soča power plant, that we have Elektro Primorsko, that the investment in the Avča hydroelectric power plant has just been completed and that the share of Primors in the joint management of energy in Slovenia is virtually null. Electricity, of course, is very important. It is also making a lot of money, and two pillars have been set up, which are supposed to be necessary under the European Union Directive in order for consumers to have a choice. Here, as has been said before, there are many things "snatched". Mr Vizjak explained, of course, theoretically how competition is essential for the price of electricity to be lower. But I'd like to ask whose account. Or at the expense of the state? The fact that we now have a lower offer on some level is actually just an opportunity for individuals to be secretly enriched. When we invest, we meet environmentalists, who in their demands overwhelm many times, prevent any investment, and at the same time they don't know each other anymore, as we sometimes say, with soap or jacket or shave, they still need electricity to do so. Natura 2000 is making a lot of investments, because I have a problem in my head that has arisen in Goriška when it comes to putting electricity lines, power lines into the environment, whether it's a reconstruction or a whole new building. Of course, problems are also due to the arrogance of investors, distributors, or Eles, if I may say so, to the inhabitants, who are also being pursued by such a new pipeline or reconstruction. I must say, as I have already mentioned in the drawing hydroelectric power plant, that the works are ending and that they will already begin experimental production in July 2009. However, the transmission of this energy has not yet been regulated. The investment on the remote Avče-Dobler, and Gorica-Avče has not even started yet, and in Renča it is still a matter of digging this faraway. Who's to blame, I'm asking myself today, because every month, if this Avče hydro power station doesn't work, the state or Eles, but that's all our cash register, will have a million euros of damage a month. Europe is, of course, full of windmills producing electricity. Of course it's not possible for us. On Trnovsko - Banjski Planoto there are excellent conditions for wind power plants. Satellite measurements have shown that this investment would be paid off. I'm asking you, which investor hopes to start such an investment. Although the domestic environment agrees with the efforts of the profession, I know that all environmentalists, the ones from the flat Prekmurje, as well as the Ljubljana, which in Banjšice, would rise, for example, have never been. The Soča River basin provides a range of small hydropower plants that would contribute somewhat electrically to this overall quota. But these too are burdened with many, sometimes unacceptable bureaucratic obstacles, including the environment ministry. In the field of energy, the very long-term adoption of spatial documentation for the adoption of municipal spatial plans is also a major obstacle in the agricultural and environmental ministries. Today, there was no talk of saving electricity, no tax burden on those who invest in photovoltaics or, as we say, solar collectors and more, in saving, which the European Union also tells us, we are talking about public lighting and more. The debate is necessary, but not with such a start as it was here today, because very precise proposals should be prepared with the materials and then a qualified debate should be held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u45	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. There's somewhere to start. Somewhere we need to start talking, and I too have been among those who have been criticised for supporting today's debate. Let me tell you that I absolutely care about all the lobbies on the left and right from Zasavje and from Posavje, from the valleys or from the plains. I am the Ripper, the Sasavcan and the Energy is the past, the present and I am sure of the future of this valley. And that is the only reason I want to discuss this issue in this House. And I hope that's a sufficient and legitimate reason. In response to his question, the Prime Minister, Comrade Bogovic, outlined some strategic projects in this area. We heard them today, too, 6 block of the thermal power plant Šostjanj, second block of the Krasko Nuclear Power Plant. The suction stays out there somewhere. It's rarely mentioned. Not often anyone remembers him. But if he does, he puts him on the table so he doesn't mind anyone. Some projects in this country obviously have great dynamics, which, of course, pass through the National Assembly, which ultimately gives "jegen" to the National Energy Programme. And as I've already said, the last few weeks and months are the biggest talks on the 6th block of the Chestnut. I have unquestionably large dimensions. It's an important project, I agree. Not only for that environment, but also for Slovenia. But here, ladies and gentlemen, are other important projects, if you want - energy facilities to which this government will have to define itself as soon as possible. If I look back on the last few years, it's done absolutely nothing but getting my head stuck in the sand. And from the current government, as I expected from the previous ones, I expect it to be clearly and publicly defined until the future of the suction energy. And today I listened to the former Minister of Economy. What you were saying today was just "flanking." And with your words, I will prove to you why. Today, big words are used about what is important to do. Nothing has been done in the past. Then, in the end, there were just some principled positions, indeterminate, inconclusive, that remained out there somewhere in the air. As my colleague Barovic said earlier - in Zasavje we need concrete answers! Not thoughts that will last six months. We need an answer. What is the associated fate of the mine by using coal in RTH after 2009? What about the priority post-2009 supervision and the associated operation of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje? As you know, the Economic Institute, led by current Finance Minister Križanič at the time, carried out a study on the importance and role of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik and TET Mine. And this research, the study has shown that the extension of excavation is prudent and justified. We would like to know what the state or the competent authorities think about the gas and steam power plant in Trbów. If this project is not interesting for the country, why does the state not officially say so? And on the part of the governments, I said to the government, not one government, it was often heard, but Zasavje did not have any projects prepared. As far as I know, a number of projects have been prepared in the past, but there was no concrete response. It was probably the easiest not to answer in the past. In 2006, the visit of Prime Minister Janša to Zasavje, I quote: "We will choose the option that will be most economically effective and will respect the environmental standards of the European Union" was said by the then President of the Government regarding the future fate of TET. Nothing happened. The former Minister of Economy, who was a very loud and outstanding energy expert in this Chamber today, said in Zasav: "Energy has been and will still be an important employee." And the previous government has also said completely empty words about how the Government is working to develop this energy location in the future. The location has even been identified by Minister Vizjak, who is obviously very well aware of this subject, of certain competitive advantages over others, and this is relatively high social acceptability, trained staff and also infrastructure conditions. However, this minister also said that it would be best to close RTH immediately, especially if it was a senseless waste of taxpayer money. Well, if that's what the state thinks today, then let the Zasavcans and the Sasavcans make it clear. Let her tell them how hard and sensitive she should go on the road in this extremely difficult and sensitive time, or whether she should find an alternative. So let him tell people that. And today there was a lot of talk about the Green Paper. I apologize if my performance is emotional, but it's just who we come from. Mr. Visjak, please hold still, and I listened to you when you were talking nonsense. So, the green book. I don't see anything green in this book, but only black. Those who wrote Zasavje mainly see it as an environment that will be closed as an energy environment in the years to come, but nothing will open. This proposal does not include suction energy, and on such a proposal, I do not think anyone will agree in Zasavje. And the calculations that have been made public show that closing the mine and consequently the uncertain fate of TET would also have catastrophic social consequences in Zasavje. I don't care about that. I don't think you do. And recently, both trade unions, both the mine and the thermal power plant, have sent a kind of call to the Prime Minister of the Government and the district minister to respond to the state to finally clarify what it wants. I believe it may be unfair that this government is now "cashing" everything that has been bad in the past. But I've seen the answer to these unions, and that answer is ignorant. That's the answer I'm worried about. I expect the Government to find more concrete and more informed answers to the questions raised. Because these answers indicate that TET should be found in its own way and that the country will be very happy if it does. As far as RTH is concerned, the answer is that it is necessary to comply with the legislation in force and this existing legislation provides that we know what. There's no answer. What about the day after that? What will the state do now? What documents are we sending to Brussels, I wonder? What emission limitation schemes? These schemes would suggest that in 2015 emissions will be 5 then 0, which means that 5 will no longer be. I really want answers to these questions because they are very important. I agree that it is often difficult to find a common language in Zasavje. But perhaps it would be a time to take a step forward. I would also have one very concrete initiative for the Government; if it seemed important to it and I understood the President of the Government and the competent ministers to think so, then I suggest that a representative from Zasavje be included in the Strategic Energy Council. The suction is an energy valley. We live, we live, and I hope we live from energy. In the Strategic Council, which I quote, "is monitoring the energy situation in Slovenia and is preparing professional guidance and proposals in the energy field for the President of the Government", that is, there is no representative from Zasavje. I'm taking a concrete initiative and I want you to appreciate that it is important that the voice of the Zava is also heard in the Strategic Energy Council. In this world, no one seems to speak in the name of Zasavja. That's why I want to know who's gonna decide and speak for him. And if you allow me to end with the words of the former Prime Minister of the Government, who, at this moment, after all the years when nothing has been done in Zasavje, sounds even more cynical, and this is: "For a successful future, it is crucial to switch thinking from pessimism to optimism, because there are development opportunities." And the words became gold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I believe that such a debate is the fruit of ignorance, or perhaps the result of the fact that if you want to criticise the current government, you need a little earlier, that the current energy policy is not too exposed. I fully agree with Mrs Župevčeva that this book, which is now a black book in public debate, is not a green book. For, as we have already heard, he deals principally with coal and significantly less with renewable resources. I fully agree on that. And it was written by the Energy Chamber, led by a man who is the director of Velenje Coal. That's perfectly clear and there's no doubt about it. However, I would explain and deny the indications that nothing has been done in relation to Thermoelectric Trbovlje in the previous mandate in the energy field. First, the Thermoelectric Trbovlje - what was done specifically. It was from a self-contained energy, over-indebted energy company connected to the Slovenian Power Plant Holding system with the desire to find space and money for the necessary investments in the holding company. An energy permit, an energy permit for a new energy facility, respected by Župevchev, was signed and issued. Of course, the energy permit was granted to the investor, it is an economic company, it is the Thermoelectric Trbovlje. It depends on where and how far this project came from and what was done. An even more important project, I am and very glad that you quoted the Prime Minister of the Government, a project was offered to take him over from Zasavje as its own, a project to build a lower-Savina chain, to set up an economic company there to conduct this investment that will guide and manage this investment. This was proposed on my part on the anniversary of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, which we had in Trbów during the active term. Unfortunately, if nothing has been done on these projects by responsible development agents, you do not blame the former minister, but blame yourself. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u48	May I have peace in the hall? Mr Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Allow me, I'm not an energeticist, and I apologize in advance if I'm too little of an expert at this performance of mine, however. As far as I've been following the debate so far, I can see that there are a lot of people who are extremely familiar with electricity. Allow me to comment first only on the content of today's agenda item, which in fact concerns the reorganisation of Slovenian electricity or the amendment of the National Energy Programme or the Green Paper, as we may briefly call it. In this regard, I would expect us Members and Members to discuss this subject in a substantive manner and to have concrete answers in our content. This would then be the purpose and purpose of today's broader debate on the Government's response to the question. Of course, that can't happen today. And I truly regret and regret the hours that we will spend here, because I will not get answers from those competent people, the executive branch of the authorities responsible for certain areas. So I miss the Minister of State of Lakhovnik. More importantly, I think it is important and urgent for us to address this topic in some specific cases in the field of electricity, and also the Minister for Environment and Space, because it is precisely these two segments that the rabbits are concerned with, or in substance, to have answers to those questions that are actually being discussed in substance today. The cancer of putting objects, electricity and other objects into space is a process that loses much and too much time. Time is money, and I think it is because of these long-term procedures in the field of environmental protection and space that all possible deadlines are exceeded. Just for example, see how they fit into the wind power plant; the question of when will the matter be final. Also, when we look at how, due to the urgent needs of the supply of electricity to Slovenia, they fit into the transport path, say, the pipelines, gas pipelines and so on. Here are all possible deadlines that are legally fixed, many times too long. I would like to add something to this point of content, which is in fact the topic of the National Electricity Programme, in chapter Transport, changes in consumption and supply, which deals with new technologies and new resources. Today, in this context, some debates could also focus on what lies ahead in the field of energy in transport. To illustrate, say the Chinese in this area are wooding at incredible speeds to produce annually how many millions of these two-wheelers who are on electric power and can be expected if we look at how many Slovenian markets are passing across various goods from China today, we can expect something soon to be overrun by these two-wheelers on electric power. As soon as possible, by 2020, between 2020 and 2030, cars will also be in the Slovenian space, which will no longer be on the so-called fossil fuels or biofuels. In short, I think it is very important that we give up opportunities in which we can also have a little substantive debate. Well, I think that one of the colleagues also touched a large pool of brown coal in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, in the same area of Slovenia, that is, in Prekmurje, which may also be the most economically backward region in the Republic of Slovenia. In western Gorička, somewhere in Vidm ob Ščavnica, Presiki between Lendava and Petišovci, there are studies of the stocks of brown coal that reach a large amount. This is about 830 million tonnes of brown coal, which is even more valuable than coal in Zasavje or in the Velensko region. In short, I would like to see the substantive debate truly in the sense that Members and Members will have many answers, which in fact stem from the question of our fellow Member to the President of the Government. Too bad, too bad we're gonna lose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u51	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, esteemed Mr Kopač. It is true, we note that there is great consumption and relatively expensive energy in Slovenia, which therefore also makes our competitiveness more difficult in the economy. This is especially felt in recession by the economy. And the time is right for a serious approach to the debate on the prepared Green Paper for the National Energy Programme. Of course, it is time for serious comments, additions and differing views. It is true that the Energy National Programme was adopted in 2000, this 2004 national programme has not been implemented and nothing has happened in the past four years. The signed tasks have not been completed. And now work to achieve the objectives will be more difficult and, of course, more expensive. The Green Paper provides important guidance, such as increasing security of energy supply, ensuring the competitiveness of the economy, finding appropriate environmental solutions, ensuring social cohesion, as soon as possible an approach to the continuation of investments in the electricity supply cycle. What the President of the Government has said, namely, Borut Pahor, that this investment must be approached as soon as possible, of course, I am particularly looking forward to it. But if I make a brief comment, I can say the following; so in the grave we have a third representation of individual resources, that means one third of hydro, one third of nuclear and one third of coal, so I can say. The fact that the Krško Nuclear Power Plant operates in a 24-hour band with an extremely high utilisation rate is, of course, in the long run, resilient. The thermal power plant Šostanj is an important part of the electricity system, which is sort of the regulator of this. The production of electricity in hydropower plants, this is production from renewable sources of hydropower of our rivers, is quantitatively also highly dependent on hydrology, this is simply said from time to time. However, the production of energy has a significant impact on the overall price as it is found that hydroelectric power is the most at risk. Comments and recommendations on the Green Paper consultation document need to be prepared in due course. For me, the medium-term increase in the share of hydropower plants in electricity production is particularly important. The increase in the share of electricity from hydroelectric power plants is extremely important in several respects, especially due to the strategic security of electricity supply in the face of extreme economic and political conditions and the diversification of resources. Of course, it must be said that the expected share, from 32 to 33.6%, should be respected, i.e. domestic resources. From this contribution, security of supply is very questionable and important. At this point, I could suggest that the consultative document be given a little more attention years ago and that it should be defined more clearly and more specifically on the purpose of exploiting the less exploited but socially exploited sources of the water potential of the Republic of Slovenia, which is particularly true for the Mura River. There has been a lot of talk about national interest, but I do find and my opinion is, of course, such that national interest consists of a large number of open opportunities. And from this context, I can say that with the definition of energy use, there are also some suitable sections of the Mura River. With careful planning of hydro power plants, which must be multi-purpose, it will be possible in Pomurje to achieve, at the time of economic and environmental and spatially appropriate energy use, also more intensive development of specific areas of the social environment and, as previously said, a reduction in the economic backlog of the region for the Slovenian average. Today I will use the term "Slovenian Mountains" for the first time - a low mountain area with many sunny days in the year, which experts have increasingly identified and is a great opportunity to build smaller photovoltaic power plants to use solar energy. I am particularly pleased that last week the Government adopted a stimulus regulation on the promotion of renewable energy production, which will certainly accelerate the construction of smaller photovoltaic plants, biogas plants and biomass as well as wind power plants. In particular, I am pleased that I have noticed in the book certain segments that have already been mentioned in some ways, but some of them have not. The possibility of using natural gas should be analysed at several locations in Prekmurje. This is written down and I think it is definitely necessary to do this. Of course, I believe that the national interest is also this, even though some say that this is negligible; the study of coal in Western Gorički or Prekmurje, which shows that the potential of brown coal stocks there is about 830 million tonnes. Of course, it is a national interest to seek out all these open opportunities, including smaller ones, for the sustainability of the system, for the appreciation of energy and for sustainable sustainability. Of course, this is expected to improve the competitiveness of our economy. Finally, I would like to try to talk about the topic that today is the topic of the discussion and the main issue; that is, these topics that we have today on the table; it was presented to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor. In the opening, he gave an explanation very weighty and reasoned. That's why I'm surprised by all the procedural and other manipulations where the ministers are and where they are, and so on. In fact, the question was raised to the President of the Government. He answered that question, and I see no reason for you to act so childishly and show once again your attitude towards the problem that is extremely important for Slovenia. In these weeks, I would like to see some more or most of the important comments you have and bring from your surroundings so that we can finish the whole and get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Since there have been significant changes in the debaters, I will read the following five debaters: Franco Juri, Darko Meni, Guido Kres, Miran Jerič and Breda Pecan. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I believe that the meeting and this debate are certainly useful. Regardless of the fact that it is turned, as usual, into a mutual account, into a search for the primary culprit, whether the previous government has made so many mistakes, or whether that government has not answered some of the key questions. And I also believe that when we talk about the energy strategy of Slovenia and Europe, we must not limit ourselves to a chapter called TES, TET or JEK, but actually to a broader framework and to identify the potentials and opportunities that we have in view of the actual state of the energy balance around the world, Europe and us. So, I welcome this debate and I think this is the real beginning of the public debate on the Green Paper that we have before us. This document is certainly important, it is a good basis, despite the fact that there are many inconsistencies. I think this is a draft which is now being offered to the public, to the professional public and also to the policy in the debate. I hope that this debate will significantly improve the platform for the design of the strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. To begin with, what I first noticed is that almost all the evaluations, the introductory evaluations, in this document are based on the evaluations and projections of the International Energy Agency. Of course, this is our official interlocutor, this is an agency that also serves European countries. Nevertheless, I would advise our experts to follow some other relevant Member States of the European Union. In particular, I am thinking of Germany, and of the already quoted Sweden, which, taking into account the evaluations and projections of the International Energy Agency, is making a great deal of effort, as well as a lot of resources, in their own assessments, to teams made up of experts. Thus, Germany, for example, set up an Energy Watch Group half-second year ago, which brings together various experts and is based on decisions made by various German parties. Well, why am I bringing this up? As the assessments, data and projections found in the documents of this independent agency differ significantly from those offered by the IEA, i.e. the International Energy Agency. For example, a specific example, the availability of oil resources. According to official data, the oil source will increase by 2025, according to the Energy Watch Group, we will get to a critical state and this oil pump will decrease. The same applies to other energy sources, fossil resources and nuclear resources such as Uranus. Uranium stocks in JEA projections are also significantly longer-term than in these alternative estimates. But I should only offer this to the debate as an example of a better and somewhere more plural action, because sometimes it helps. This certainly helps Germany, regardless of how they behave and what projects they give priority to. In the green book itself, of course this green book covers one very wide range of energy issues but I have a feeling when I read it that the core, so the core of all energy remains mainly the exploitation and potential exploitation of fossil resources, anyway, whether it's coal, whether it's uranium, whether it's oil, or whether it's natural gas. However, I will only stop at two important aspects of strategic importance, one of which is natural gas, which is extremely important not only for Slovenia, but also for the natural gas supply network, which is of strategic importance for all of Europe, and we were aware of this in particular after the recent crisis of Russian-Ukrainian relations. I quote from the Green Paper, one assessment I have seen is very promising and says: 'The capacity of pipelines and the number of suppliers in the European Union is already so great that a market will be created in a short time with the possibility of different supply options, including the current so-called 'purchase rate'. It's okay, it gives us some kind of security, the fact is that between the southern flow, between Nabucco, between the northern flow, between the flow coming from North Africa, either from Algeria, Libya and so on, or the North Sea, we are and will be fairly well supplied with natural gas. However, on the next page of this document, the idea of liquefied gas terminals, including in Cyprus, is being re-smuggling. Although the document notes that we should be correct that the short Slovenian coast seems less suitable for building a reception terminal, even though the proposal to build a terminal in Cyprus has also been presented, which would represent a strategic advantage. The Green Paper further notes that Slovenia has very important terminal plans in neighbouring Italy and Croatia. It also lists them here, the whole range of them, there are several gas terminals on the Adriatic. Among these there is also a terminal in Trieste; I suppose it is a terminal in Žavaje. And from this green book it is possible to understand so that we can accept this location and even refer to it as interesting for our market. Of course, this raises the question of where all the conclusions so far and the findings so far have been very problematic in some locations, such as the location of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets and along the Slovenian-Italian border. At the same time, I think that when we talk about energy, we cannot talk about energy separately from environmental impacts, this is a parallel issue. And when we think strategically about energy, we need to think and bear in mind all the consequences that arise. I miss discussing the specific issues of our strategy. I picked up an interesting study from the Internet last October called "Evaluation of Acceptability of the Impact of the Marine Gas Terminal". It refers to the possible consequences of accidents in the Gulf of Markets at terminals listed here as interesting to us. This study was not produced in the circle of civil society, this is a study signed by the University of Ljubljana or the Faculty of Chemistry and Chemical Technology and the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport. It is a serious study with specific data from the tests that proves that any location in the Gulf of Markets is extremely dangerous, not only inappropriate, but extremely dangerous for the safety of the living population there. So I hope that we will continue to supplement this document and this thinking also with these scientifically proven facts. In particular, the chapter on renewable sources is interesting, and here I join those who have critically assessed that this chapter is correct, because it only notes that Slovenia does not meet and will not meet within the expected deadlines those requirements arising from the European Community directives. Unfortunately, we are still weak here, but I do not see below how this lack should be addressed with concrete cases. Solar energy is mentioned three times very superficial, and another time even before the financial problem. The promotion of this area, again from the Green Paper, was only uncommon and there is no promotion of good practices. And so do I. "The potential is also high in photovoltaic systems, but for the time being costs are still high, so it makes sense to encourage to the extent that technology can be applied and technology can be produced in Slovenia." I don't understand this sentence. If this is to say that there is no point in investing excessively in solar energy, I do not accept it, I am afraid that this is actually already a projection of capitulation for those objectives that we have set together with the European directives and which are possible if we do our best, as the Germans do, as the Swedes do, as the Spaniards are doing their best to invest heavily in this very renewable resource. I will give you the experience and findings of Nobel laureate Carl Rubbi. Carlo Rubbia today runs a research agency in Geneva, works in Madrid, works for European projects, and is a scientist who ensures that the only long-term, reliable and long-term most affordable source of real sunshine. It also proves this with some data, some facts. For example, the thermodynamic solar system, which was created in the Neadha desert and has been operating for some time now, is experimental, but apparently promising, interesting results. It is strong or produces 67 megawatts. It cost $200 million, they built it in 18 months, it's actually still relatively expensive, but the price would fall if the market actually increased in this area and the technologies would also relatively adjust their price. But if we all despair earlier, of course, this progress in solar energy will not be. I also come from the recommendations we recently voted in the Euro-Mediterranean Assembly. Slovenia is part of the Mediterranean, not part of Scandinavia. Slovenia has relatively good options, at least opportunities for better use of solar energy than it does now and also from the promises we can see in the Green Paper. That is why I recommend to the Government and recommend to experts who will implement or build on this document a little more effort in this area, taking into account good practices. There's not a lot of them. Let me say that it is just us who are a Mediterranean country that have significantly more potential opportunities. If I quote once again the Nobel laureate Rubbia, we must be aware that with the technologies we already know, with which we already have, we would be able to use only 0.1 desert areas, we would be satisfied and would offer the world the energy it needs. I am sorry to say that we remain among countries that are very conservative in their approach to these issues. Other sources such as wind energy, geothermal energy, were mentioned earlier. Unfortunately, I see a lack of hope and a lack of opportunity in the Green Paper to actually extend our potential and our potential to this area as well. My call is for this debate to continue, to complete this document, to take into account what we will say and find out. Let the expertise be taken into account in particular, but also the expertise that is not related to specific lobbying, to specific interests, whether these are gas interests, whether they are coal interests, or whether they are nuclear interests. The recipe is a diversification of resources by maintaining the facilities and potentials we have from Trubovlje to the nuclear power plant in Krk. Let's not just focus on this segment, let's try that manna, the environment where the fight for the development of new energy resources is taking place, let's focus on that inconspicuous space - especially on alternative renewables. Even if they are now creating an illusion that they are costing and that they are not profitable in the short term. Profitability must be long-term and when we talk about national interests in the energy strategy, we must not forget that national interest in this case is a global interest. Emissions of dangerous gases, pollution and energy are so globalised that, of course, our national interest is also the national interest of Germany, Sweden, the Italians and so on. But if we're just localistic, we're going to turn this concept upside down and basically understand it as an inhibitory factor. Once again, I welcome the debate and hope that, in fact, this debate will continue and build on the debate that will amend this document, which will improve it, complement it and allow alternatives to be more realistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u54	Thank you. Mr. Menich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u55	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Good-bye! Energy is one of the most up-to-date topics in recent days. There is much to hear about the restructuring of the Slovenian energy system, this is the maintenance of energy pillars. Everything is listed in close connection with the Block-6 project at the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant with a power of 600 megawatts. Given the current state of affairs, the European Union energy forecast, Europe will still depend on fossil fuels in 2010. Because of the price and security of supply, all sources of energy will be urgently needed. The three main objectives of the European Union's energy policy include security and sustainability of supply, competitiveness and security of supply. The main task is to modernise thermal energy facilities by increasing efficiency and implementing clean coal-use technologies. Modernisation or greater efficiency of thermal power plants means less pollution of the environment, which is essential in the light of the fulfilment of CO2 reductions. I come from the Shaleska Valley, specifically from the Municipality of Šostanj, where we are particularly well aware that it is imperative to modernise the thermal energy facilities so that people living in environments where electricity is produced will live in a human-worthy environment. New thermal energy facilities must also be built to increase efficiency, both in production parameters and in economics. Modernisation of coal production is one of three reasons that also dictates modernisation of the TES by adapting two gas turbines and building a new 600 megawatt block. The new sixth block is crucial for Slovenian energy, while at the same time allowing the further development of the Šoštanj Termoelectric power plant, Velenje coal mine and the entire Shaleska Valley. Some data suggest the need to build a 600 megawatt block. The Shale Valley still has over 200 million tonnes of energy coal in its depths, which will be used in Block 6 and will be sufficient for its operation until 2055. This 600 megawatt block will be built according to state-of-the-art ecological principles, together with a competitive coal price, it will also give competitive electricity production. It is also of great importance because it would produce 30% more energy in the same amount of coal than it is now produced in the Chestnut plant. At this year's gas supply events, it is also clear that Slovenia, which is more energy dependent on imports, needs its own energy resources and should not depend solely on foreign countries. If there were no investments in the 6 block of Thermal Power Plant Šostanj, the reliability of the supply of Slovenian electricity consumers would become very questionable in the coming years. The entire future of the Silesia Valley would also be at risk, as a number of jobs as well as the existence of energy-related companies would be at risk. We must all be aware together that there is no energy future without coal. Coal will play a very important role in supplying electricity and heat to the population. As part of the construction of the new 600 megawatt block, it is appropriate to lay out the basis for the long-term operation of Velenje Coal in the light of block 6. Between 2015 and 2027, both coal blocks 5 and 6 and both gas turbines will operate at the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj. Electricity production from Block 6 is foreseen - 3,450 gigawatt hours per year and 1100 gigawatt hours per year from Block 5 to 2020. Furthermore, by 2027, production from Block 5 fell according to its production capacity and according to the supply of coal from Velenje Coal. Coal stocks at Velenje Coal Coal Stocks in December 2008 amount to 124 million tonnes of coal mined stocks, while balance-sheet stocks amount to 204 million tonnes. So there's plenty of coal in the giant coal mine. At the same time, I would like to point out that the stocks are confirmed by a state-of-the-art certificate on day 31. 12. 1998 issued by the Ministry of Economic Affairs on 10. 12. 1999. This confirmed the balance sheet amounts of coal, as I have previously pointed out. Imports of coal for TES are not required for all these reasons. Unit 6 with 600 megawatt gross power has an average net power of 530.72 megawatts, with an average thermal power of 53 megawatts. Block 6 will operate for an average of 7650 hours per year taking into account the power factor and due to the trapezoidal mode of operation, the equivalent number of operational hours of the block's full capacity is 6500 hours per year. So Block 6 will need about 2 million 900 thousand tons of coal per year and will produce 3,450 gigawatt hours of electricity per year. And 345 gigawatt hours of heat per year. The fact is that coal production in Velenje Coal needs to continue to be developed and modernised. Planning long-term development projects depends largely on the life of the company. Therefore, long-term development projects are needed to preserve the company's life expectancy. One of these is the "energy savings company", which is closely linked to the 600-megawat block. This is about energy efficiency, and for these purposes jobs need to be created by the 'energy manager'. I would also like to highlight the project "The Optimization of the Digging Method". Since the Velenska digging method, which is protected by a patent, is a process for extracting coal, especially from thick layers, and because of its specificity and high productivity, it is known to the world environment and is also found in mining professional literature. The current balanced sources of electricity, thermal, hydro and nuclear power must also be maintained because no one can predict which source will be the most appropriate in 10, 20 years. The area of ecology must be highlighted on the issue that we are dealing with today at the meeting. Due to greater net efficiency, 43% in the new block and thus lower consumption, annual CO2 emissions will be 35% lower than the current five blocks of the Chestnut Terminal. This fact is particularly important for Slovenia as a whole in the light of the fulfilment of commitments made by the adopted climate and energy package, which provides for Slovenia to reduce total emissions by around 6% by 2020, in the light of those in 2005 by, inter alia, reducing emissions from sectors included in the energy tariff system or in the trading of emissions rights, in which it is also the Šostanj Termoelectrica. Since these sectors cause around 40% of all Slovenian releases, the required measure represents 8.4% reduction of all releases in Slovenia. In view of the above, we certainly agree that there is an investment in Block 6 [[600-Megawatts]] Inseparably linked not only to the energy aspect, but also to the environmental aspect to which the Slovenian State has committed itself and will also have to meet its objectives. The investment in Block 6 therefore has the attribute of a national development project and was fully eligible for inclusion in the resolution adopted in December 2006. I stress this because the 600 megawatt block project also needs to have the above-mentioned facts justifying and justifying its construction. Construction of block 6 with 600 megawatts is inevitably necessary. And to conclude. Why build block six? Due to the equivalency of competition with other European power plants, in order to promote greater energy efficiency, because it is an attribute of a national development project because it is more ecologically friendly in the valley and also wider. To keep jobs in the Shaleska Valley. Because it directly allows for the further development of municipalities in the Shaleška Valley. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u56	Thank you. Mr. Kres has the word, he's gone. Mr. Jerič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of Parliament. Honourable Acting Director of the Energy Directorate, Honourable Members, Members of Parliament, a nice greeting. I will not be as emotional and combative as my fellow Members coming from Zasavje, Bogdan and Melita, but I, of course, share their concern for the existence or development of energy in Zasavje in the future and thus directly or indirectly on the energy associated with some 1850 jobs. In the debate it was heard that in a way we are all friends, those coming from these energy valleys, from Zasavje, Posavje, Šalejska Valley, from the area of Drava power plants. I believe so. But I don't think we're allies. We should be. If we look at the decisions that have been made in recent years, I think some were happy if it went badly for Savlova if the right decisions were not made for Savlovje. I myself did not support the proposal to discuss the Government's response to the parliamentary question of my fellow Member, Bogovic, for a simple reason - I thought the Prime Minister's reply at the time and time he gave it was more than a good one. Given that a public debate has already begun on the Green Paper, which will need to be discussed at different levels, within the profession, within the energy regions and within the civil sphere. Of course, there is nothing wrong, once again, if this debate has taken place as an introduction to a debate in Parliament as well. The Green Paper is the first step in developing a national energy programme that will need to be adopted in a new way. I'm sure we'll do it in the first half of next year. Even more so, if this introductory step had been taken a little earlier, in the mandate when you led the Slovenian government, then some of the answers would probably have already been. It is difficult to expect the new government to adopt an energy programme within two months and to give all the answers you want to hear in this debate today. I am confident that, on the basis of the quality debate and the sub-programmes and impact assessments, such a final version of the national energy programme will be produced that will ensure the security of Slovenia's supply in the future, and that all energy sites that are today and some new will have the same weight within the national energy programme. Now let me go to Zasavje. In my opinion, too, Zasavje is underworked in the Green Paper. And it is up to us, both the professions that we are going through in Zasavje, as well as local and regional policies, to make our comments on the Green Paper and insist that certain solutions or investments will be put into the national programme through the Green Paper, and I am sure that this will also be adopted in the first half of next year. Why? The suction has such a tradition, it has a staff, it has a location that has some kind of social acceptability. The supremacy is strongly linked to the energy of all these 200 years discussed by fellow Member Bogdan. Stocks are, about less than 3 million tonnes of excavation stocks, so these are the stocks that are available without investment investments. And just over 15 million other stocks are extremely high-quality coal. In the previous term, we have also tabled a change or addition to the Zasavje law to our fellow Members, who come from Zasavje. I think that was in April 2007. Nothing happened. The previous government did not consider it important to obtain an answer from the European Commission or the Directorate for Energy, Energy and Competitiveness to the question. Is it possible to use domestic energy in terms of improved or better supply of the electricity market and in terms of increasing or reducing our country's energy dependence on other energy providers? I hope that this new government will take this decision in one way or another, whether it will be necessary to amend the suture law or to reorganise the suction energy by meeting the criteria and criteria of the European Commission and, of course, to all state aid schemes. I firmly believe that we will convince the European Commission with the right energies and that we will get this consensus, not only in terms of reducing the human and social problems in the Sava region, more in terms of reducing the energy dependency of our country and more in terms of increasing the security of electricity supply. I will be happy, of course, if the National Energy Programme also finds its place in the construction of hydroelectric power plants in the Central Sava. I hope that this construction will be carried out in a similar fashion to the one on the lower Sava, and I think that the former Minister of Economic Affairs has been vowed to say that he offered Zasav to set up a company with which to build hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava. If this offer is still valid, we will gladly accept it, we will also build hydroelectric plants on the lower Savi and I believe that in the future also hydroelectric plants on the middle Savi. What I don't understand is how these energy permits are given in this country. Also in connection with hydro power plants. In my view, not only the effects on the environment, economic, environmental, economic and other effects should be thoroughly assessed before the energy permit is issued. We give energy permits and then we stop anything from happening. We received an energy permit for the gas-powered steam power plant in the Rippers. And then the inhibition, the inhibition started, except nothing happened to that investment. I believe and hope that it will be in the future, including on the basis of a high-quality national programme that will include investments that are real, that meet the current challenges of time and global change, that those energy permits will be issued, which will then be implemented in practice. As far as the last four years are concerned, there is only one more sentence, especially in terms of some of the debates that have been held. From Zasavje we have been sending many questions, many initiatives, some projects and no answers in the last four years. You can believe I didn't. I didn't expect good answers for Savlje from the party that forced the referendum to stop Thermoelectric 3. And I tell you, the model for financing the Thermoelectric Trbovlje was significantly different from the model for the construction of the hydroelectric power plant on the Lower Sava. If I were to be included in the model at the time, that the complete state-owned local infrastructure and I do not know what else will shift to the cost of the country and will not burden the future investment, then this investment would be economically justified, possibly more than the construction of hydropower plants on the Lower Sava. Only other criteria were in force at the time. You then forced this referendum and the logical consequence was the adoption of this law. It seems to me bad from a national and economic point of view to avoid taking advantage of the supply of succulent coal in terms of better and quality electricity supply to Slovenia. There could be much more to talk about energy, I think there has been a lot of talk in today's debate. I am confident that in the coming months, and that all this debate will lead to a truly good national energy programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you. Mr. Vizjak, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u59	Of course, I have been appointed by two Members, who obviously did not monitor developments in their environment during the previous term. Both of them were amazed, or they were reading inaccuracies. On the anniversary of the important energy operator in Trbovje two years ago, I adopted and continued the initiative from the economic circles of Zasavje to set up in Zasavje, following the Posavje example of which the energy company, which takes over the investment over the construction of the medium-savks chain, was established. And I strongly deny it. If Mr Jerič was not there and did not see this and that these initiatives were not accepted and developed by the relevant authorities, this is their problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr. Jerič, there's no replica to the replica. Mrs. Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u61	First of all, this debate on the Government's response to Mr Bogovic's question; because our Committees of the National Assembly do not function as they would by the logic of things as they might have done by jurisdiction; in fact, it is totally unnecessary. This debate could be significantly more qualitative and have significantly better effects within the Committee on the Economy, which is responsible for energy, such as the Ministry of the Economy, which is responsible for energy, and could even produce a series of improvements to the Green Paper on Energy on the Committee, in cooperation with the professional public. Here now, no expert outside the National Assembly can engage us to help us think about the energy future of our country, not a single one, because we cannot participate here. And it would make more sense for the President to convene a thematic meeting, as we do in the Committee on Environment and Space, without boasting, but I think that this is the right way to discuss individual segments of environmental governance. The subject matter could be addressed at a joint meeting, as the energy sector is certainly very closely linked to environmental protection and to the objectives that our environmental policy is primarily set by the European Union, as well as those that we have set ourselves. So when we talk about Slovenian energy, we can't get past the target of 3 times 20 minus 20% of our energy consumption plus 20% of our renewable energy sources and minus 20% of our greenhouse gas emissions, converted, of course, into carbon dioxide. I think that given in the Green Paper there should be a particular emphasis on renewable energy sources, but not in terms of, say, biofuels, which we know that the raw materials used to produce biofuels affect prices, global food prices and that it will be necessary to ask seriously whether biofuels are really the right target for improving the energy situation in any country in the world, much less in Slovenia, where we do not have only food supply, let alone materials, biofuels. Secondly, when we talk about biomass, it is true that in the cycle of carbon dioxide is replaced with oxygen produced by the growing trees and so on, everything beautiful and well, but here it is a cycle that runs in seconds and for another cycle that takes decades and decades before this mass was also useful for processing. We do have 62% of the areas covered with forests. It is true that we only take advantage of about 30% of the floor, which means that we still have 70% of the wood mass at our disposal. But let's ask ourselves what would happen if we took the "et" to the end. What would be the long-term impact on our forests? And a third. When we are talking about new sources of energy, especially electricity, we need to write down in the Green Paper a slightly more radical approach to the use of these renewable energy sources, such as solar, wind, water. But the water's thermal energy is called geothermal energy of soil and water, or thermal water, which we have abundantly in Slovenia, and we do not use them and we do not know how to exploit them. We know that photovoltaics are developing with, we can say, almost light speed, that photovoltaic cell prices are dropping very quickly, but we haven't written down our commitment to, say, produce 20% of our electricity in the next 30 years with photovoltaic power plants, which is possible. But not by covering the agricultural areas and Natura 2000, but by covering all the building areas with photovoltaic power plants, electricity cells through photovoltaic power plants. No, here, we don't hope or what?Oh, my God! I think that it will only be necessary to consider that Slovenia is not so much untouchable in all areas where we have sufficient quantities or long-lasting winds to set up wind power plants, to simply give up any possibility of producing electricity through wind power plants. As far as I'm aware, Germany, a vast country in front of us, is already producing 10% of electricity with wind power plants. I don't know where we are.Oh, my God! We don't have one! We have wind power plants called micro-wind power plants to test how much wind blows and how much it doesn't blow. I know that there is a windmill along the highway between Ljubljana and Primorska, which is supposed to produce an electric current to power a speed meter, as it were called, a radar. That's great. I am very happy about this because it reminds me every time I drive a little bit slower, even though I stick to the rules so that no one gets the wrong idea. But what I'm trying to say is that a man has to smile, but he smiles sour when he sees things like this - that we're not able to build 100 wind power plants in this country, when there's definitely wind blowing in certain areas all the time. Last time I was in one of those not too high hills where they told me that the wind like that was blowing was blowing every day for a year. That's great. And we keep the environment intact, because we can still build things in such a way that we do not destroy the environment. I must say that I think there could be even more answers to Mr Bogovich's question. This is an opportunity to encourage all of us, including all political parties, all citizens, to look at the Green Paper and to write by June 6th, or any day later, what they think should be done to reduce pollution, reduce energy consumption and replace energy sources with those that do not pollute the environment. There are. Development is continuing, perhaps we could also consider that the residual waste can also be processed by plasma and that resources should be systematically invested in the development of degradation, not incineration, decomposing of municipal waste, even hazardous waste through plasma. And we, of course, read online what the Americans imagine, what the French imagine, what the Germans imagine, and then we say, but they're really smart, and we're doing the same thing. I think it is necessary to use our own energy sources to build greenhouses where we still have enough coal for decades, but we also need to consider that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases produced in the production of electricity in thermal power plants need to be stored and stored, for times when we will know how to use these greenhouse gases differently without damage to life and, above all, climate throughout the earth. I think we do lack the courage, for example, to go and take into account the danger of, say, transport, liquefied natural gas in the Gulf of Commerce, the construction of a terminal and a thermoelectric power plant that would allow for the gas to be incinerated, and at the same time provide us with what is terribly lacking in southern Primorsk, especially in Slovenia. It is necessary to know that the Slovenian Istria has one 20 kilovolt pipeline, which supplies the entire economy in Slovenia. At the same time, this gasification would also allow the liquefied carbon dioxide and the removal from the country to be liquefied and would also make it important to produce electricity at the thermal power plant, since we would not need to pay carbon dioxide allowances. I don't think when we talk about things like that, we can't say, "That's the only way." We bring together people, we call together experts, and when we read the threat, safety and life analyses of people in a particular area because of an intervention, we read the whole thing. We're not just reading offshore terminals, we're reading onshore terminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u62	Thank you. Mr. Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you for your word. I almost wanted to say that I agree with Mrs Pecan's implementation until the last part when she spoke about the gas terminal in the Gulf of Tržaška, when she told us only what this allows us, but not what it does not allow us. We have a draft national energy programme entitled Green Paper. We know from experience that the form, i.e. many times, is quite different, for example, the People's Republic of China has never been a human or a democratic republic. Germany is democratic. I hope that by March next year the Green Paper will be truly worthy of its name.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u64	Thank you. Mr. Petan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u65	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. I think that this debate is certainly necessary today, and I would say it is even necessary. In view of the wishes of some of the current government circles; i.e. everything that is going on in this area, from replacements, from human resources replacements; in Styria, it was in the context of the accumulation spill, and I will explain it quickly. Due to the climate and energy package, certain energy programmes had to be revised or needed to be revised. Because of the 3 times 20 we have heard so much about today, Slovenia has a certain obligation to build power plants, so-called green energy. These are mainly from renewable sources, but I am thinking mainly of hydropower, which has sufficient quantities. The wind can only be a complement. So-called black energy, these are thermal power plants that produce a lot of discharges. However, the nuclear power plant can probably because it does not produce these CO2 emissions, we also consider it possible to be already part of green energy. And what's the big deal here? The price is also important. The price of energy is, of course, the lowest in hydro power plants. It comes under 30 euros per megawatt hour, while for thermoelectric power plants that belong to black energy, it comes around 100. I'm talking about an approximate relationship. Some power plants have fewer, some more, but that's the relationship. 30 to 100. Of course, I am in favour of this because we need to use all the resources we have in Slovenia to have a combination. That's why I support the construction of the Mura power plant, the Kozjak power plant, the combined power plant in Zasavje, the Kidrichev gas power plant or anywhere else at the end, including Šostanj, 600 megawatts, but not once 600, twice 300. Why, it has been said many times today. Even though it's the most expensive energy, but we need it, we're gonna need it, and without it, it won't work. The 2nd block of the nuclear power plant will probably need to be considered, because the lifespan of the 1st block is set somewhere, and construction, we know how long it takes. But it's something else. As it is now conceived, once again, I do not oppose the construction of the 5th or 6th block in Šostanje, but not only once so large, but twice as big, it is said, twice 300, it is the spilling of the accumulation. Pointing to what was happening with regard to Drava power plants, change of leadership and all that was obvious, it's just a scene, a smoke bomb for something else to do. Drava power plants produce the maximum accumulation, have the highest profits because they produce a megawatt hour at the lowest price. And, of course, that's why the money had to be collected. That's why everything that's been going on has been happening just to get this financial accumulation somewhere else. If we are building energy buildings, which is important for all of Slovenia, then we need to raise money. I agree with that, but not by taking someone away from you, but by saying, "Come on, get involved, and be a partner." That's something else. But in this case, circles near this government just wanted so - in Maribor Drava Power Plants to collect the accumulation, the money, and give it to somewhere else. To forget about the overcrowding power plant in Koziak, there's another story again. It even plays a double role: it's green energy, it's the cheapest, and we'd even make the ends even because of the night production; we know what that means. But no, the whole accumulation is the Drava power plant needs to be picked up and put somewhere else. Therefore, I am surprised that in Maribor those who should not have come forward, it was their accumulation, their money, and it was by a simple procedure. That's probably not how it works, not how it works. But, of course, in this government it's like this: first you wrap them up, you let them into the firm, and then we'll do what's necessary. And what happened to Dravo Power Plants was totally unnecessary, and you showed how you were doing, and that in this case, you were "cushion". But it was the accumulation of Drava power plants and nothing else. I can tell you that I'm not in any lobby alone. At our place under Pohorje in Konica we have no hydropower plants, no thermal power plants, no wind power plants, nothing, so I can speak completely independently and I do not care at all whether it will be built in Maribor, in Šostanje or in Trbovje. Unless we build only black energy objects, so that we don't know, in a year, two, three or five, we'll be paying heavy fines for CO2 emissions. I don't care here anymore. But as far as investment is concerned, I don't care at the final stage. So I speak completely unburdened and insensitive, but I say what I hold and what I see. Only a blind man wouldn't see it going to the Drava power plants in Maribor for accumulation, which he would like to give somewhere else. I said that's what's going on, but not to take it away from him, but to get him along as a partner, that he's got his share. And that seems important to me to draw attention to, and that's why I thought this debate was important. Probably, I hope that it will not be the only one that, as the speaker said before me, is likely to be on the Committee of the National Assembly, which is responsible for this, that discussions will also take place. I hope it's not so far away that it's already irreversible. This is something else and again in a few years we will pay the fines of Slovenian taxpayers as is now the case with the most expensive gasoline and the most expensive wines we would like to introduce to allow foreigners to have all things cheaper and Slovenians will pay twice the price. Or much higher than it is elsewhere, and that is why it seems to me that this point has achieved its purpose, so I also supported it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u66	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor. Here you go. He's quitting. Mr. Bogowicz, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u67	I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u68	We're done with this. Even Mr. Bogovich, as a motioner. You want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u69	I can only thank you once again for talking about this subject today. I think that the debate is necessary and that today's debate has also shown that this Green Paper needs to be discussed. It is very good that this document has now come to a public debate in the meantime, and I hope that this debate has encouraged those who feel invited to discuss it and to take advantage of the fact that, by 6 June, they are also co-forming this Green Paper with their contributions. But if everything is already decided in the field of energy, as has been said, time may also indicate whether it is properly decided. I am convinced that not all decisions have been taken and that the opinions on this will certainly continue to be broken in the coming months, and that an optimal direction in Slovenian energy will be adopted in the end with the help of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u70	Thank you. Since the time for discussion has not yet run out, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure? No, then I'm closing the debate. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 11. This is on the basis of an act on the determination of a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political liability of holders of public functions responsible for the preparation and implementation of the so-called "exploited" damages in the years 2003 and 2009, on the basis of the sum that the results were officially announced were subject to the political needs of certain holders of public functions; to clarify the political responsibility for non-continuous execution of 8. POINTS OF THE DECISION OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE No. U-I-246/02-28 (Ur. RS, No. 135/03) IN THE TIME FROM THE BEGINNING OF 2003 TO OCTOBER 2004 AND IN THE PERIOD OF 22. IN NOVEMBER 2008, WHEREAS THE ESTABLISHMENT OF OBJECTIVE INEQIVITY BEFORE THE LAW AND THE PROHIBITION OF PUBLIC FINANCING SYSTEMS; AND FOR THE INVESTIGATION OF THE CLIENTALIZM OF THE CURRENTAL LEVEL OF SOME OF THE STATE FUNCTIONERS AND FOR THE INVESTIGATION OF THE COURT OF THE MINISTRY FOR THE INSURANCE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA IN POLITICAL PURPOSES FROM THE BEGINNING OF THE YEAR 2003 TO OCTOBER 2004 AND IN A PERIOD OF 22. November 2008 onwards. On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a group of 37 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank submitted a request for the initiation of a parliamentary inquiry to the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Magi's proposal. Branku Grims for further explanation. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u71	Your Honor! To all of you, on behalf of the applicants of this commission of inquiry, give a nice welcome! The incompetence and ignorance of the ruling coalition will cost this country enormously. And the incompetence and ignorance of the rulings today will also be a red thread of further justification by the applicants for the introduction of this commission of inquiry, even more, in fact, we could consider changing its name and identifying only the incompetence and irresponsibility and, of course, the ignorance of the ruling coalition and then identifying which political function holders are key to such a situation. However, to justify this, let me return for a moment to the interpretation which was in connection with the Minister of the Interior, Mrs Katarina Kresal, in this same Chamber. In order to justify why this Commission of Inquiry is in the public interest, I must first mention some quotations which are extremely interesting in the light of a document which has become available only in this later period. But, of course, he's talking about the incompetence and ignorance of the ruling coalition. In fact, I would first quote the reply of the Ministry of the Interior when it answered a written question regarding the issue of decisions and an already increased number. I quote: "The issue of compensation to the so-called 'deleted' by issuing supplementary decisions has no connection." End of quote. So is the Minister of the Interior or the Ministry, with the consent of the entire Government. I quote the President of the Government of Mr Pahor: "The issue of compensation by issuing supplementary decisions has no connection." A quote, a document. I will add the leader of one of the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups: "Of all the absurdity of the interpolation charges, it is particularly incomprehensible that the MNZ is endangering public finances by its conduct. This is a fiction, because it is not a compensation at all, it has nothing to do with them, because the decision does not speak of it in a single sentence, nor does the Minister deal with it." Moreover, I can continue with another quote, which was made concrete by the Vice-President of the National Assembly. "It is even more false to say that these supplementary decisions will create a basis for compensation actions against the State. Let me first point out that, not only is this not true, the supplementary decisions do not have any consequences for the right to compensation." Citat - Mr Miran Potrč Vice-President of the National Assembly, National Assembly, member of SD. What has been the foundation of the controversy since the beginning, and also the key reason why we are; all the time and today we insist; we have proposed that this story be regulated by the Constitutional Law. Because we have always argued that a new legal fact arises by issuing decisions. That means the expiration date starts running on a new one. The reactions were severe to our claims, for five years it was denied, it was said, it's all outdated, it doesn't matter, you're talking nonsense. Last time, one of the SD's members was extremely busy, and this was my comment that following the old Goebbels habit, repeat the day after day the lie would become the truth. In short, great respect for the interlocutors as usual by the transition left. And then there was a judgment on behalf of the people. This judgment on behalf of the people was handed down by the Maribor District Court. And what does it say? It is only in the light of this judgment that it is, of course, clear why it is in the public interest to introduce this very investigator. According to the Court’s assessment, the time limit for the expiry of the application of the so-called "deleted person" began to run when the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia, by a decision issued in 2004, found that the person had a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. during the period when it was unlawfully deleted, according to the Constitutional Court’s judgment, from the register of permanent population. That's a quote from the court's judgment. Moreover, this same court specifically emphasises: "The Court has specifically assessed the elements of the State's liability for compensation, i.e. the damage caused by the injury in the exercise of the powers of the State authority and the unlawful conduct of the body which carried out the activity." That's right! And what did it find? "According to the Court's assessment, the defendant was harmed by the defendant's unlawful conduct" and continues: "which height will the Court decide below when it executes the other evidence." What does that mean in practice? This judgment literally states that, in the SDS, we have spoken professionally that we have shown appropriate legal knowledge, we have spoken truthfully and that the catastrophic ignorance and incompetence of the coalition, which has rejected all our proposals with its left hand through the current tape, may be the reason for the extremely serious material consequences that will arise for the budget, due to the possibility of making additional claims, since all the deadlines, ladies and gentlemen, start again because of the reckless, reckless decision-making without constitutional law. In fact, this decision also means that if we look at it politically, it will certainly formally remain in the power of coalitions, SD, Really, LDS and DeSUS. However, there is a coalition of incompetence and ignorance in power, whose accounts will be paid by late generations. This means, in the light of the increase in the number of so-called 'extended', which is also a mere reflection of the incompetence and ignorance of the ruling coalition from the years undisputed 18.305 to more than 25,000, in particular 25.701, after the representative of the party Zares from the ruling coalition has been able to talk about it with the Serbian Minister for Emigrants in Belgrade and he has been reminded that the number of so-called 'extended' should be much greater, so that this account, to which the legal basis of the loan is given by this judgment, and we have warned him in due time all the years, and you have arrogantly denied that this account could be extremely large. It also indicates that the claim made under the request to introduce an investigator is based on double criteria. For what does this judgment in place say? That the limitation deadlines begin to run through the issuance of the so-called "intermediate decision". And that the limitation period is then three or depending on the requirement for a maximum of five years. This in practice means the following, and this is interesting; that this actually created two categories, one that did not know it and the other that would later know it, and at this point you are making decisions. Those who didn't think a few years ago that this would end up like this, who thought that these were actually temporary decisions, as they were said at first, would be in an unequal position now, because probably most of them were waiting for some legal precedent and didn't file applications and they missed out on out-of-date deadlines, and now they really are. This second group, which you are now making decisions on, is aware of this. They know the court turned on their green light twice. First of all, that the obsolete deadlines, as we have been in the SDS all along obviously more than rightly warned, begin to run by issuing a decision. Secondly, they considered that the act itself of what had happened by the authorities of the State constituted a legitimate claim for compensation. The question is, it is likely to decide in any case on the basis of concrete evidence. But compensation is a fact. According to this judgment, the Court, which has pointed to the destructive ignorance and incompetence of the ruling coalition, can certainly be argued that damages will certainly occur. Above all, it is portrayed as extreme non-professional and legal ignorance, absolute ignorance, all contention, long-standing affirmation of the ruling coalition, how to issue these decisions with damages, I quote once again the President of the Government, the Minister, the Ambassadors and Members, the leaders of the coalition's sent groups: "there is no connection at all." Whatever the final judgment will be in this case, it is an interim judgment, it is clear that there is still much legal link and that gentlemen in the former opposition and the current coalition would do very well for themselves, including themselves, and especially for Slovenia, if they listened to the reasoned, professionally justified legal debate that we have been offering in the SDS all the time and adopted our proposal for a constitutional law to avoid all this story. If we had a constitutional law with which compensations would either be minimised or "pascalized" or totally excluded, which would be the only legally irrefutable, then, of course, this increase in so-called "exploited" would not pose such a serious potential threat to public finances, at a time when the state faces a major economic crisis, which the ruling coalition with incompetence, ignorance, arrogant rejection of constructive and professionally justified opposition proposals, has further deepened. Now, of course, it's the only way to take responsibility. And this will be the task of this commission of inquiry to find out how it is possible that in Slovenia there has been a complete domination of incompetence and ignorance by the ruling coalition, not only did it not know how to count, because it is the same authority, but it has only transformed into three different parties, the former LDS - key people today we find in the SD, the formal political legacy still attracts LDS, and the content and political legacy to the greatest extent of Zares, and today we can peacefully say that at this point the same authority as it was five or six years ago when this number was first done. And so it's the same political force that counted on the same database with the same criteria and counted a completely contradictory result. In one case, 18305, which was not checked later. Only after a representative of the ruling coalition in Belgrade had the Serbian Minister for Diaspora warned that this number was too low to be bigger did it suddenly - look at a miracle - jumped to 25701. And in the light of this judgment, which shows all the sadness, incompetence and ignorance of the ruling coalition, of course, this poses an extremely great threat to public finances, to the quality of life of people, because if it comes to compensation, it would be fair for you to pay them out of your own pocket because of your arrogance. But if it comes to compensations from the public budget, a lot of money, as well as procedures, because you already know that they cost enormously and will become lawyers, they will stand trial by themselves. It's gonna cost a lot of money. It would be right for you to pay this out of your own pocket, ladies and gentlemen, because you have rejected everything we have offered as a possibility of a common solution, as the possibility of a compromise that the former President of the country once pointed out. Today is just a moment where we can only find out that the conditions are laid down for this commission of inquiry to begin its work. I hope that it will find out where the reasons for this devastating arrogance are, to reject all the professional arguments and any solutions offered to avoid this situation. And how is it possible that those who have shown this inexplicability and ignorance in this way could not count twice the same number, the same data of the same people. This is really interesting, because without it, no one should finish primary school.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u72	Mr. Grimes, time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u73	Thank you for your attention, and I will be happy to take part in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u74	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Of course, it is necessary to set up a parliamentary commission for such a complex, of course, wrongly taken priority issue in Slovenia as deleted. We are at a time when the Slovenes and the Slovenes have nothing good to say and when thousands of people lose their right to work every day. We are at a time when even those who work full-time, 182, 186 hours, do not get enough in their envelope to normally spend a month, a family, and cover all current investments through bills. But we are also at the time of the elections, and the fact is that it is precisely the party that has barely yet come to Parliament wants to solve in some miraculous way the problem of the deleted, which, in our view, is not at all a problem that should be addressed with such priority. One thinks it would be better if you were wiped out or gypsy, because those two middles are the best. They have a lot in common, too. They're growing in the middle. They are growing abnormally rapidly and, if nothing else, it is necessary to ask the public function holders responsible for preparing, carrying out the counting, what is written in the first point of which the Commission is also supposed to deal. It is also necessary to establish political responsibility for the alleged failure to comply with paragraph 8 of the Constitutional Court decision. But when we are before the Constitutional Court, why does the National Assembly not care about all the unconstitutional laws we adopt here, despite the fact that the Constitutional Court warns us that they are in breach of the Constitution? If you are reading a report on the work of the Constitutional Court, you may be appalled at how many of these laws, which our judiciary is using, are inconsistent with the Constitution. But it can't be like that when it's deleted. I would, of course, ask myself how many of these compensations will be paid, and if the words of the Minister at the time of the interpretation, the Minister of the Interior of Mrs Kresal's delusions are true that these compensations will amount to a few billion or much over one billion euros, then I ask you: Who will pay these compensations? And if we are talking about this, which, of course, we must not speak out loud about, who will represent this area of deleted persons and where the Minister comes from, where she used to work, then we can know that lawyers are already losing their hands so that they can charge their percentage from each individual compensation action. For how they can count it, we have already taken care of it because we have changed the Law on the Bar. They can even write their own job score now. That she's good or that she's weak. Not to say how they can set prices. Prices are free of charge, even six-month-olds or seven-year-olds, it doesn't matter at all because there's no price list. Next. Of course, with this investigation of the alleged suspicion of customerism, we also want to determine whether any of the ministries involved in this prioritisation. I have already told the Minister myself, with all due respect, that I appreciate her having knowledge and ability, but to point out that her priority works somewhat wrongly. And then at least something that we can be happy with Slovenians started to investigate some companies, but as we can see, well-protected political circles continue to run for supervisors, even for directors they are not ashamed to apply again. This is where I'm referring to the Bavčar, but this guy knows too much about bad business anyway, so he can do what he wants. However, if we are in the case of deleted persons, why did the difference of seven thousand people arise after the second count? Where this difference between 2003 and 2009 is such a significant change. And one more thing, ladies and gentlemen, when we are in the clear, all these gentlemen have had the opportunity and, of course, ladies to settle their status and they are not. The country even called them to this, at the beginning the price for citizenship was one bottle of beer, so much the cost. But because they're also calculating between these people not to say "speculators," what happened was what it was. They preferred to sign up a little later when they saw that they had lost all their opportunities in their homeland or that they should, of course, take too much risk. Some were even so bold that they left the families here, and they went to the Balkan battlefields themselves, came back here a little bit on the weekend, and later, of course, without shame, demanded another compensation. Who will understand that in the fact that we can't take care of Slovenians and Slovenians, that's what I'm asking you. I would understand if we were a well-groomed, socially-educated country and if we were to comply with this article, which is also enshrined in the Constitution, if we didn't have such problems at home and in the crowds of dissatisfied employment, I would understand that we are also questioning deleted and that we are regulating them because the cash register is full and we have some surplus "and let's settle the fact that there will be no cregaria". But for everyone else, we have a hearing, for those who are here at home, who are part of Slovenian history, and we ignore you. And I believe that the Constitutional Court would have wanted anyone, a judge of the Constitutional Court, to have asked if they wanted to settle any other constitutionally incompatible area rather than solve this problem. But I believe you don't care enough and I'd go to what the profession says and read something like that that was written in Legal Practice 14. 5. 2009 Here says the Legal Practice, by which judges like to look after each other when they write something down, says: 'This is how individuals who have been familiar with the fact that they have not become citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of ignorance of the law', of course, this is not an excuse either, 'their status should be regulated and they have not. Thus, every foreigner, a citizen of the former SFRJ, who lost his right to reside permanently in the Republic of Slovenia, should settle his business after 2009. To submit, of course, an application for a residence permit for a foreigner to be decided by the administrative authority." And the problem arose because these gentlemen did not do what was said here in the explanation of Legal Practice. Sir, I'll deliver [[...]] [[He's talking over the microphone.]] [[...]] But if we look at what is happening in Slovenia, it is just rude and unacceptable that we have it as the only world. But if we take the time preamble, ladies and gentlemen, it is logical, we are at the time of elections for the European Parliament, and it is pleasing to have a crowd of people behind us who have the right to vote. And seven thousand people on the list without excuse reminds us that they once had electoral rights in one country, including those who had already died. I do not understand why Slovenia so generously opens these growing lists and who is responsible for it. Today I miss the Minister of Home Affairs here to explain this matter - who made this new list, name and surname. Who gave birth to seven thousand new people? Who is the one who has the right to spread the list like a mech of accordion? I'd like to see this person; probably someone was just writing this list. Ladies and gentlemen, if we don't set up this commission today, you won't give your consent, what can happen, then we can say that you care little about Slovenians and Slovenians. You care little about Slovenians and Slovenians because you are closer to being wiped out by gypsies and foreigners who come here looking for only a good source of earnings. Yeah, strangers, too. We can connect foreigners with the fact that Zlatorog is no longer Henkel, Istrabenz is no longer Istrabenz, but he's an OMV, he could list other companies and I won't. You also kneeled before them when they opened their wallets and paid a little bit for what they got. On the other hand, we can expect something that awaits us. I'm coming from Primorska. Even when the Fascists come to Slovenia, you don't care enough about standing on the edge. And I'll remind you, this month they come back to Primorska, to Crassus. And if we are a legal state and a country based on the postulates of antifascism as well as Europe, then make sure that the relevant authorities that will prevent this meeting are there. But I believe you will not, because we are a nation of servants, and because we are admiring all those who desire to send forth our minds. In short, according to the Slovenian National Party, this Commission is necessary. It is also necessary to find those responsible, to call them to account, and to say that what they have done has been done recklessly, irresponsibly, and beneficially. If that's the case, then the commission, there's no doubt it wouldn't be necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Members of the Slovenian People's Party signed under a request to regulate the parliamentary investigation in order to fully investigate the data and procedures that have been mentioned and presented bilaterally in these years since the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, as the individual political options have answered or have responded to those who have declared themselves deleted. However, let us not run away from the previous debates on the interpretation of the Interior Minister, Mrs Katarina Kresal, because we know that mistakes may have taken place in these matters. Oh, yeah. We have always advocated a legal basis for implementing a constitutional decision. That is why we have been working at the Slovenian People's Party all the time to finalize this matter by means of a new relevant law. They would comply with the constitutional decision and resolve the status of former citizens of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. We note that they were transferred to the records of foreigners in 1992 legally under the Foreigners Act, since it was only in 1999 that the Constitutional Court repealed certain articles of this Act. Therefore, it is not possible to say that they had been illegally erased because they had no status in the new country at the time, and therefore they were only obliged to arrange it. In addition, it should be recalled that the Constitutional Court did not order the Minister of State to amend the legislation with retroactive effect, but with effect from the decision of the Constitutional Court. So we can argue that it is purely political speculation that, without exception, all those who want to appear as victims want to be criminalised by the state and the responsible officials. On the other hand, to gain the favor of a certain number of voters, which can cause irreparable harm to the state and citizens. Therefore, we Members are obliged to examine the matter and act. We therefore support the parliamentary investigation in order to definitively resolve how many, in fact, those who have not really been able to regulate their status and whether they may have been wronged. In the Slovenian People's Party, we cannot agree to spit on the values derived from independence, we cannot allow our country to be on sale, so that some can easily disperse the taxpayer's money when they promise rights and damages 20 years ago. We cannot allow our country to try to show itself impatient and as a country that does not respect human rights. We cannot allow the international institutions to be muddled and accused by a country that has peacefully allowed all these people to live in Slovenia without regulated status all these years. And we cannot agree to try to devalue and deprive Members and this National Assembly of their constitutional function - the role of legislator and constitutionalist. Above all, we demand the initiation of an investigation because, to date, the number of so-called deleted persons has increased miraculously. In 2003, Dr Bohinc then assured us that only 4200 persons from a total of 18,000 were transferred to the records of foreigners. How, then, is it possible for the same ministry to display so different data that it tries to mislead Parliament and citizens?Oh, my God! This must be investigated, this is certainly one of the powers of Parliament. The Slovenian People's Party responded first to the contested constitutional decision and publicly pointed out this already in March 2003 that it is legally and in fact impossible to regulate the status back. We have always opposed the issue of decisions without a legal basis. We did not agree that some aggressors would receive a residence permit or even compensation from Slovenia. In proof of these claims, I also have here a record of coalition coordination on the then proposal of two laws, which was 27. 9. 2003 at the LDS Club, on the coordination of the law on the enforcement of the eighth point and the law on the regulation of the status of former citizens to be adopted for the implementation of the constitutional decision, and on the draft agreement of parliamentary parties on the modalities for implementing the constitutional decision on deleted from 2004, by which we tried to avoid the referendum. At that time, we opposed certain provisions of the status law in the coalition, we opposed the issue of decisions without a legal basis, and we were therefore also expelled from the Rope Government. Many lawyers have confirmed our claims. In the discussion on the interpretation of Minister Kresalov last month, I cited the names of ten lawyers, members of the expert board of the Robbery Government, of 6. Ten. 2003, which they explicitly wrote in their opinion to the then Minister, Dr Bohinc, that he must have a legal basis for issuing decisions. In addition, in a separate opinion, Dr. Mitja Žagar is 6. Ten. 2003 stated that in no case can the Constitutional Court replace or assume the function of a positive legislator. And he wrote, quote: "There is, however, the National Assembly, as legislator and founder in our legal system, always the possibility of amending the Constitution and possible non-compliance in this way," the end of the quote. Minister Bohinc prepared two draft laws in 2003 and also reasoned on the need for a legal basis for enforcement of point 8. I have this copy in my file, and you can look at it. I quote from the data of Minister Bohinc: "The Ministry of the Interior ensures that in 1992 over twenty-eight thousand persons were deleted from the register of permanent residence and that about ten thousand left Slovenia and registered their residence. Of the remaining eighteen thousand, there are around seven thousand who have acquired citizenship and four thousand eight hundred who have been granted permission to stay or stay for a period of time, but not for a period of time. Approximately 1,000 people were granted permission on the basis of so-called reliefs, while some 4,200 persons did not have any status. He further wrote concerning military personnel: "Among the 18,000 persons who were deleted from the register of permanent residents of Slovenia in 1992 and who did not check out of their residence, only around 1,500 persons who were employed in JLA were among them only a small part of Yugoslav Army officers." Otherwise, the issue of granting permanent residence rights to members of the JLA will be regulated by the so-called System Law on "Depositors", which will limit rights in Slovenia to legally convicted foreigners after 25. 2. 1992, by a specified time limit, those convicted of a crime against Slovenia and certain other offences and foreigners who have been convicted by a foreign or international tribunal for genocide, crime against humanity or war crime, provided that the person has not been tried in his absence. It is therefore incomprehensible that this year data appear that the Minister intends to issue, without the legal basis of the supplementary decision, 25,700 deleted, and at that time the Minister argued that only 4,200 persons do not have a regulated status. This is irresponsible, unacceptable and can cause irreparable damage. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party propose a parliamentary investigation and we have no objection to enlargement, because we are confident that it will prove the correctness of the State's conduct at that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u78	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Greetings to the honourable Messengers and Messengers! The history of parliamentary investigations in the Republic of Slovenia is already quite long. All of them have one important common property that all these commissions have already spent a lot of money. Those who have been in these commissions have benefited from this, and political and other benefits, especially the fact that all these commissions have not yet discovered anything and will not, because they have purely different purposes. On the one hand, it heals the serious political wounds that the battered applicants have received with arguments when they have failed to interpret. I'm sure they'll get up. A great speaker from the half - past history of the Nazi Reich was mentioned today. You won't hear names like that from my mouth because people like that don't look up to me. For some, behavior and behavior, and in some other ways, apparently. Such a parliamentary investigation is evidence of outright mockery from democracy and common sense. There is no problem at all, ladies and gentlemen, if you think that this moment in this country in times of recession and economic crisis is not more important than by diverting attention from the foreign policy problems that we have at our borders, giving priority to the internal political story, 17 years old, which divides us again and divides us. Following the failure of the three parties to communicate with the Minister of the Interior, who respected the Constitutional Court's decision and was the first, after 17 years of different lefts, rights, centrals and mixed governments, irrespective of the political sensitivity of the issue of deleted and the mass of false information, why there was even a deletion, who were so-called deleted, how many of them, what the provision of the back status meant, the first resolutely insisted that this status should be governed in a manner that is legal, fair and just, without prejudice to any damages and so on. It is simple, however, that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are respected in a decent and dignified policy. Those who, of course, make mistakes try to eliminate them and correct them, not sweep them under the rug. When we explain in detail what the purpose of the parliamentary investigation or what it is to determine, we ask ourselves whether Members and Members and Opposition have sat at the same meeting at which the Minister responded to unfounded allegations and whether they have listened to it or wanted to hear the answers to the allegations they are now repeating in the investigation and are justified by repeated and repeated arguments. Obviously, they do not know when it is enough to mislead the public and to set up numbers, to intimidate them with damages and what the decision is. In particular, it is not clear that the Slovenian public also has sufficient manipulation of the issue of deleted, sufficiently one and the same repetition a hundred times with the justification, evidence and legal facts of the rejected claims last time in the National Assembly at interpretation. What and where are the new reasons, the new unexplained facts that require the introduction of a parliamentary investigation? As the proponents say, the identification of a politically motivated number of deleted ones does not stop them more than an inappropriate link between the number erased by the search for new voters, which is an unacceptable abuse of real personal tragedies erased. They talk about the suspicion of setting up numbers for each time political needs and the responsibility of public function holders due to their connections with legal offices. They talk about the threat to the public finances system, the grave and misleading of the National Assembly by the number of deleted, even so far as to talk about the political abuse of the Ministry. They talk about everything that has been answered many times, just not about how it could have been erased, who caused it, why and how. The error, the damage can be adequately rectified so that the independence of the State of the Republic of Slovenia does not leave a mark, that human rights will no longer be violated and that it can be determined who is to be deleted. Whether they were speculators, former members of the JLA, the occupying army, or in most cases the removal of housing rights is primarily for women and children. We must not have been many in the National Assembly, who were then among the invaders. Those who are today the most vocal with the eyewitnesses were not present at the time. They state the names of many who are supposed to get this status to fight against independence, against Slovenia. But, look, despite the management of military intelligence services and other connections, no name has yet been found to point to anyone with a name with a finger and, if he has acted against the country of Slovenia, against our nation, he has also been accused. There's never been a hero like that before. If you give me a name, I repeat for the third or fourth time for this pay phone, we'll charge him if you have any reservations, fears and fears. So why does the opposition insist and set up a parliamentary inquiry? Not because we have proposed an extension of the parliamentary investigation - and it has been rejected - to identify the political responsibility or reasons why it has been erased and how something like this could have happened to a country that has gained its own will and purpose, including those who have been erased, to become a democratic state whose basis is respect for human rights, freedoms, respect for the rule of law, not to determine the possible political responsibility of holders of public functions who have not continued to implement the Constitutional Court's decision. All these facts are of no interest to the opposition. On behalf of the parliamentary investigation, it is desirable to replace deleted persons with the legal and political correct use of persons who would rightly be called "after 26.2.1992 were deleted from the residence register". It is only in order to agree with the extension of such a commission, so that those with different arguments, views and views can present them to the Slovenian public and once finally come to the bottom of the story and close it and focus on the problems that are today and will be filled tomorrow in this country. If the opposition had a sincere and serious intention, which is, of course, illustrated in practice, because it did not have this purpose even in its previous mandate when it was in power and was itself responsible for the counting and records by various ministries. Obviously, there is also the responsibility of those who should give us the right number, and apparently they have hidden it for various reasons, hidden it, and silenced us. Every interior minister is responsible for order, data in his ministry. And if something turned out to be wrong at the time, then I'm sure you'll be carrying your share of the responsibility. I'm sure these lists and the increase in the number of irregular records are due to 17-year internships. Now that there's someone at the Ministry who's obviously going to do something, clean up the records, the archives, and the number came back the way it was then. I am sure and with full responsibility I guarantee that no names have been added or taken from the lists of so-called deleted in recent years, but that all those names on these lists, which have not been harmonised, have been listed since 1992. Not even the applicants are interested in finding illegality and the unconstitutional consequences that led to a massive violation of human rights, which occurred for the first time in 1992, and not in 2009. If the purpose were to be honest and fair, then surely the opposition would, once again, stress, agree to extend the investigation and to determine the possible political responsibility of the then public function holders when the error occurred, but not those today who are trying to minimise the damage to public finances, to the budget and to correct and correct as little as possible a stain on the democracy of Slovenia and human rights. The case also strongly recalls the previous mandate, when the current opposition again, with the help of some of the very conscious, launched an investigation to try to clear up the purchase of armored 8X8 and, with the aim of diverting attention, established its parliamentary investigation into arms purchases and selectively chose the periods in which it identified the political responsibility of the holders of public functions. The requested parliamentary inquiry, in particular its content and purpose, is in our opinion intended only to raise political points on the shoulders deleted and, as such, we reject and do not support it in its entirety and without regret or bad conscience. In our view, it will not contribute in any way to the recognition, regret and apology of the wrong done. To acknowledge that it was a grave violation of human rights, and therefore it is necessary for the future of Slovenia, a country that respects human rights, to avoid that this will never happen again to any other group, to identify and clarify how and why it could have been erased, and it has occurred, and who is responsible for it. End of story about the number of deleted. The statistics were obtained by the Ministry of the Interior on 24 January 2009. They were obtained from the information system of administrative internal affairs, namely the Register of Permanent residence, the Register of Foreigners and the Register of Mothers. Taking into account the above facts, that all administrative units should comply with the computer record, the re-analysing of 2009 took into account data only from the computer record and found that the number of persons whose permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia had ceased to be in the Republic of Slovenia was 25,671. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Under our legal system, according to the law and the Rules of Procedure on the appointment of a parliamentary inquiry, 30 Members and Members have the right to order a parliamentary inquiry and the National Assembly has neither the right nor the need to decide. This is the case today, and I therefore expected that, like the right legal solution, we will also act properly and find that the requirement of the given is legally submitted, accept it and leave it to the investigative commission to work substantively. If only that were the purpose of setting up an investigative commission. But it's not. The purpose of the Commission of Inquiry is to demonstrate, on every occasion, the situation and situation that took place in 1992 in a semi-real and unrealistic manner. And I think that's bad, and I'm not going to get caught up in the trap to start doing the same thing that other people do. I will only say that this is a completely special case, which should have been properly identified from the first day of the adoption of legislation and concrete practices, perhaps also signed by the members of the commission of inquiry or by someone else, in order not to constantly change the facts, what is still being done. And that's legal facts and the actual situation. I think it would be correct, if we wanted an investigative committee, to find that we would also listen to the demands of the opposition and incorporate the whole issue in the contents of the commission of inquiry, from the moment we made a decision to delete a particular group of citizens and citizens from the register of permanent populations, to who decided to do so, to the extent that the decisions were made, to the extent that they were really determined, and not to each other, but to the extent that none offered evidence, whether those people who had been deleted had been written to be warned whether they had been called to the offices only to sneak up or to remove their identity cards and other personal documents. All of this could come to light if you wanted to know the truth. But no, that's not the purpose of the commission of inquiry. The purpose of the Commission of Inquiry, according to the signatories of the two groups of Members, is even very different. Some advocate content that is written down, others go much wider. And it is likely that the problem of this commission of inquiry will be, once Members and Members of the various parliamentary groups are included in it, constantly, repeatedly, again, what is in fact its content. If this content is already trying to spread today, then I doubt that it will also try to spread itself in the work of the investigative commission. Therefore, the legal basis of the existence and we do not have the opportunity to judge whether we establish it or not. Unfortunately, the purpose of this commission of inquiry is not objectively to identify all the facts - positive and negative, consequences and causes, but to identify only the consequences. The aim is to show the situation in this way, as if it were those who were actually erased, not the country that did it. And when I talk about the state, I think about the organs, not the officials. Officials were obliged to follow the instructions that all of us, including you, have been instructed to do so. Therefore, they themselves can bear responsibility only for whether they have had a more or less understanding face to cartoons, not whether they can or must act in one way or another. Unfortunately, when you did not allow the commission of inquiry to extend to the causes, but not only to determine the consequences, you agreed that you wanted to politicize and display things in an unbiased and untrue manner. I hope that the Minister will enforce and issue deleted decisions in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, and I hope that we will then come to a joint work on the law that will regulate the rights of those who will not be covered by supplementary decisions. For whoever has not yet settled this status, either with citizenship, or with the status of a foreigner, or with temporary residence, will not receive this decision. These decisions will be individualised, determined on the basis of actual situations, and it will finally be determined how many more those who need a special law to ensure that the criteria and rights after which the status is returned and from when it comes back are guaranteed. Instead of focusing on this part, which should be our shared responsibility, so that we do not have double criteria, what is the rule of law and what human rights are, and that we should not continue to claim that some of these rights want to be abused, but not at the same time say that they have been taken away and that they cannot be abused, but that they should be returned, all of this could be determined in one proper debate. The content that you put on the committee of inquiry, with all formal rights, does not allow that. The Commission of Inquiry will be set up to prove that it was a numbered problem, but not a problem of the conduct of the public authorities, and it does not in itself affect the essence of the problem itself, but you have chosen it, and you will probably enjoy continuing to talk through the Commission and the public about the facts and half-truths. And I hope that today's session, because it won't bring anything with it, won't put too much pressure on it. Finally, because you will have, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, who are proposing this investigative commission, much longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Some say that the problem of so-called deleted is a first-class political issue that comes on the day that it suits someone and where half-truths and untruths can spread. We say in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this is no longer the case. Since the beginning of this government, this issue of so-called deleted becomes a first-class financial issue, becoming an existential problem of the Republic of Slovenia. Why do we say that? Simply when the Government decided, due to incompetence or ignorance, that they would be able to make complementary decisions within the internal ministry, things changed radically. Why? Just two cases. Judgement or judgment of the court, however you wish, from Ptuj, where the former president of the so-called so-called was granted 18,000 euros without interest. If we add interest to this over the years, it's close to 50,000 euros. If you multiply it by 50,000, you'll come up with a billion euros. Second case. Judgment of the Court of Maribor. EUR 65,000 without interest if you add interest, more than EUR 100,000 will come. If you multiply it by 25,000, you get two and a half billion euros. I stress, two and a half billion euros. This may be an existential problem of the Republic of Slovenia, and some other existing problem. Let's go in one order. How did the problem of so-called deleted occur, which now increases after eighteen years by one third: from 18.305 to 25.701. In 1991, at the time, the common country did not have a common citizenship of the SFRJ, but this was the sum of the nationality of individual republics. So in Slovenia we also had a record of so-called citizens or citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and foreigners. And immediately after the independence, the then Secretariat of the Interior, the current Ministry of the Interior, wanted to settle this matter with those who were not automatically citizens of the Republic of Slovenia from this record, in such a way that foreigners had to be registered because they were not foreigners, but illegals. That's what they say. We had the alien records. And all those foreigners in all the then large congregations, where the existing administrative units were, were obliged to inform all these people that if they wanted to acquire all these rights, they must do so and do so, come forward there and there, bring certain documents and they will get, if they wanted, automatic citizenship. Nobody asked them if they knew the language. In order to be able to obtain all rights, including citizenship, one account was sufficient for paid rent, apartment or one account for paid electricity or one invoice for paid water supply and so on. One bill! I ask you, which country in Europe did this? When we talk to foreigners, the people of Europe who have some information about some of the deleted ones, because some alarmingly and deliberately spread the untruth about the so-called deleted ones, when we explain to them that on the basis of one electricity bill for one month, they can get citizenship, and you are stupid. Nobody does that. We did it. In 1991 all these people had to be informed in the congregations of that time, not once, three times. For the first time, it was the end of August 1991, the second time in December 1991 and the third time the list had not yet been settled because it was, at the end of February 1992. Three times it was necessary to inform these people to arrange for them to receive their status, and for one account. On one count! At the time, I think the State of Slovenia did everything necessary and was one of those who treated foreigners the most liberally so that they could acquire the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. But some didn't. Why? Okay, we can guess that. I can tell you a lot of things and show you what was going on back then, what was coming back from those who didn't want to accept the letters that informed them what was needed to be done. The rest, for example, is eighteen thousand people in these records in the Republic of Slovenia who have not arranged it. This record was made in 1992, which is the number eighteen thousand. During this time, the number of these may have decreased, unfortunately, naturally. Unfortunately, I say because we want no harm to anyone, but nature does its work. By no means can this number be increased by one third. How is it even possible to increase this number by one third, from eighteen thousand to twenty-five thousand. At the time when we had an intervention against the Minister, we received different information from each Member to the SDS Group. I received a document myself where someone proved that the person now on the new list of additional deleted has been in one of the European Union countries for 30 years, so Slovenia has never seen one. This person has never seen Slovenia and is now in that additional list for deleted. And what does that mean? Why did I say that this is becoming an existential problem, why do we think in the SDS that this is becoming an existential problem of the Republic of Slovenia and not just in the first place a political issue? Because of the fact that these additional supplementary decisions, which, of course, have been issued by the Minister of Home Affairs in his department, are the basis for actions against the State. It is true that this does not yet constitute compensation directly, but this is the basis for the action against the Republic of Slovenia. A lawsuit for what? Because they failed to arrange the necessary documents after a three-time warning in order to come to the register or register of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Now, I'm asking you, can these people, and we're also asking in the SDS, get some compensation, can they sue the state, or do Mura's workers get any compensation, get some supplementary decision, or LTH, or MIP or anything like that? Can these workers, the workers get a decision? None. There's no concern for these workers. For so-called deleted persons who went to Brussels and muddled Slovenia, who were on the border and all foreigners issued some kind of document, how bad it was in Slovenia. But it's a good thing they went to Brussels. What happened there? There someone arranged for them to be accepted by the Commissioner, I think they were refugees, and asked them, because Schengen was not in force at the time, they had to come across the Austrian border with documents: gentlemen, how did you get to Brussels with which documents? And they showed what documents they had. Excuse me, gentlemen. The one who doesn't have any documents has been deleted. These people had passports, even more countries. They had documents, which means they weren't erased. And the case was closed. Of course, it didn't appear in our media. It appeared only for as long as they were in Shentil when they were telling foreigners what Slovenia, like Slovenia, was undemocratic and warned them three times, and later they could gain all rights after normal naturalization. As long as they were in Brussels, there was still a show of what was going on, and then there was no more. When the Commissioner told them that if they had documents, they could not be deleted. They were wiped out in the Baltic States. But to obtain citizenship there, they had to change the names and surnames, gentlemen and ladies, that the Russian minority had acquired the citizenship of the Baltic countries of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. With us for an account that proved that you lived in Slovenia. That's a big difference. And that's why we say in the SDS that we don't have any deleted. If anything has happened to anyone, it may be possible to copy or similar, but these people are few. Those that are really erased, who don't have documents because they've been erased. That's the point. And now, if I go to those two lawsuits that already have some credibility, if they're legal, that's different, but the lawsuits are in two courts. If it comes to such large amounts, multiply by 25,000, and the question is, what will this minister find in three months? There could be 32,000 of them. No one can guarantee it. So we're wondering who's changing this data now, who's faking it, who's trying to fake it, who wants to make more of these people? They are not, but some are in some other countries of the European Union for 30 years. We also have that kind of evidence. And I ask you, If all these people are going to sue you, and they will, and if you multiply this, is this politicization? That's not politicization. This is an existential problem of the Republic of Slovenia. Like you said years ago, there will be no lawsuits, no damages, and you laughed at us. But today it's not like that. That some compensations will be that some have already received, but this is not based on complementary decisions, as far as we know from the Group of Members. That's something else. That's supposed to be the main one. Once the lawyers represent these people and when they're pushing the price as high as possible. Then this will be the end and today you still laugh at us when we say that this can become an existential problem of the Republic of Slovenia. No, ladies and gentlemen. It is already becoming an existential problem, and at a time when the Prime Minister of your government, the President of our Slovenian government, knows that money should be saved and "coffee" should be saved. Okay. He can't just save millions of euros. But he wants to show on a symbolic level that there is a need to save. But we'll have billions if we have to. That won't be a problem. You're talking to your government. You're gonna have to cut lunch for high school kids. There is no €50 million or €60 million for a high school lunch, but we will have billions of euros for the so-called deleted. You say that free kindergarten for another child will have to be abolished, and 30 million euros is needed. There, however, billions of euros will be needed for the so-called deleted. We have the most expensive petrol in this part of Europe, because we need to get money into the cash register. No, but it won't be a problem for the deleted. We'll have even more expensive gas if we have to. We had the lowest rate of excise duty six months ago. It couldn't be lowered anymore. We're pretty high now. We'll have the appearance of a very expensive vineyard. Yes, the Slovenians will pay, of course. Of course, the Slovenians will pay for it. The Slovenians will also have to take the money they have, despite the crisis. But there will be no problem for billions of euros for the so-called deleted. These are serious problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u84	Mr. Petan, is this the content of a motion for a decree?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u85	Of course it's content. And please don't interrupt me because this week you're just breaking up. I justify what I want to say in the end. I can't say, listen, we're in, and you believe us. Excuse me, Mr. President, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u86	You don't have to have respect for me, but keep it to the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure and talk about the subject on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u87	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, the National Assembly is people, and so are you, so I respect you. In the SDS Group, we support the establishment of a commission, because it is time to find out who is making fun of the Slovenes and Slovenians, who is forging records, records that have been valid for 18 years, and now they are no longer valid and they are just 40 percent thick. I would understand, and in the SDS, we would also understand that some names, some names, but not more than a third, 40%. By 40%, this record of so-called deleted has become thick, and this needs to be established. Let this committee find out. It is clear to us that we will enjoy discussing this problem. No, we don't enjoy it. We feel bad because this is happening because we know what is threatening the Republic of Slovenia. We enjoy helping the Republic of Slovenia. [[The ad in the hall.]] All right, Mrs Potrata, I ask you to calm down so that I can conclude by presenting the views of the Group of Members. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the establishment of such a commission that will determine where the problem arose: whether it is because of incompetence, not knowing whether there are lobbies in the back, whether it is because of arrogance, or whether it is because of political blindness. We certainly know that it is at the expense of the Republic of Slovenia. It is at the expense of the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia and, above all, at the expense of the Republic of Slovenia. So in the beginning, I mentioned that all those who were on record, up to 18,000, not those from 18 to 25 thousand, were informed three times in writing how to regulate their status, and apparently they didn't arrange it. We therefore believe that the problem of so - called deleted persons cannot be so numerous. If someone has been wronged to put one record into another, but we can count you on one hand to make it work. But let's deal with it individually, not in a package, and then say that everyone gets a decision from that package, which is an individual problem. No, that's not an individual problem, that's group. And nothing, at least what happens in Slovenia, from similar, comparable groups, does happen in a group. This would be the only precedent in Slovenia, to say the least, all of them will come. It's not working. In the SDS, we support the establishment of this commission and we expect to find out who is making fun of us and how the number of so-called deleted to as many as 25,000 has increased by 40%, which can become and is already becoming an existential problem of the Republic of Slovenia. That is what this is about, and that is why we support the establishment of this commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Petan. Mr Franco Juri will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. We in the party do have one big dilemma and we ask ourselves one question, would it not make sense to set up another commission of inquiry, this is a commission for deleted Members. A few Members receive around EUR 5,000 per month from the public budget and are not in the workplace, they are deleted. I wonder, for example, how many times did Member Janez Janša participate in the committees and in the regular and extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly. Report to the public, statistics on the participation of individual Members in the National Assembly. We will see that there are also some deleted Members. That's mine. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u90	Mr. Yuri, I have to be fair to everyone. This is also not the content of the decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u91	Mr President, this is a substantive question on the merits of investigative commissions, on the deleted and on the number of sent-offs who do not go to work, who do not work in their work, and for this they receive about 60,000 euros a year. Let us also tell the public that the accounts will be a little cleaner. In the Group of Members, however, we consider that the initiative to set up a parliamentary inquiry which will identify the political responsibility of the holders of public functions who were responsible for the preparation and execution of the count deleted in 2003 and 2009 and for other actions recorded in the material submitted, or that this commission will not produce any results and is totally pointless. It would recognise the responsibility of public officials who are and who respect constitutional order, legislation and the rule of law. How many have been deleted will be definitively determined only when all decisions have been issued on the basis of individual examination and only then will we be able to know how many people have been caused by this injustice. However, it is interesting and sad that the applicant did not accept the proposal to extend the work of the Commission of Inquiry to other time periods relating to this issue, since the applicants strictly excluded and carefully, selectively excluded periods when they were themselves involved and co-responsible to delete as part of the ruling coalition. In the Group of Members, we are indeed quite disappointed and surprised that we have failed with the proposal to investigate the guilt and responsibility of those who have caused such an unjust situation. There is also a disputed period for us between the Janša Government and the ministry of Mr Matei, when for 4 years nothing has been done to implement the Constitutional Court's decision and continue to issue supplementary decisions, which is the only legal and legal way to solve this problem. It is of particular interest, however, that, during this period, the Janšev government and Minister Mate have also done nothing to annul these decisions issued by the Minister of State, Dr Bohinca. That's very interesting information. Nothing has been done to prove the unjustification of those decisions at the time of your government. Why not? Because you didn't have a constitutional or legal basis for it. Since it was clear that a constitutional decision should be respected. And no one, nor Janša's Government, and I admit it to her, has just allowed herself to undo something that was founded and which was based on a constitutional decision, i.e. on the Constitution. Of course, some now want to find fault with those who are supposed to cause an increase in the number of these eraseds. Please! I speak in multitude, for I represent the Group of Messengers indeed. The situation is very serious, too serious to be bewildered by such suggestions. It is clear that the Commission of Inquiry, as requested by you, wants to ensure media attention and space within the National Assembly at the expense of the National Assembly, in order to warm up to infinity, beyond and beyond the question which has already received several legal, constitutional and political answers. By the way. I don't like teaching my colleagues about certain facts. But when I hear some information just so I think about the fact that the deleted went to Brussels and that they were accepted by the Commissioner for Refugees. Let's be a little more exact, fellas. This was the Commissioner for Justice and Human Rights, Mr Franco Fratini, who adopted a group of deleted persons. This was made up of partially deleted documents from Slovenia, but not all decisions on the retroactive value of their rights, in part with deleted ones, which joined that group in other countries, i.e. Italy, France, which did not have and do not yet have documents. I can say this firsthand because I was present in Trieste and Falcone when they met with the authorities and political parties there. I was like a journalist, and I followed this march. I can say that I have met some deleted ones there, even born in Slovenia, and they do not have our documents at this time, and some live in very bad conditions in neighbouring Italy. So there are cases and cases. Decisions shall be issued on a case-by-case basis, as has been explained several times. They are given to those who have the right to them. In the Parliamentary Group, we really wanted to see that, in view of the numerous statements and findings that the removal of citizens and nationals of other countries, the successors of the former SFRJ, with their permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, did not involve a case from the register of permanent population, but probably a systematic and deliberate operation, guided and directed by instructions for lower officials. We wanted to find out, however, who issued the removal orders, what the legal basis was for that decision, and what the consequences were. This is what we expected from the commission of inquiry, which will deal with the non-existent problem. It will deal with the numbers that are the result, not the cause, not the reason, not the reason for the deletion, and this in order to embarrass yourself again before the public, as you did last time you tried to interpret the Minister of the Interior. That's hard for me to understand. You have experienced moral, ethical and political slapping. It has also turned out to be such a grateful subject, a demagogic thank-you topic, as may be the issue of erased in times of crisis, which reportedly offers a lot of room for cheap demagogies and references to workers and workers of Slovenia who are losing their jobs and for whom some of us stand firm and stand behind their rights, but we do not allow ourselves to mix apples with pears, we do not allow ourselves to allow debate and demagogies that actually limit to calling on the lynx of some citizens and citizens of this country. I speak clearly metaphorically, politically. What has been going on for some time is an attempt to lynch at the expense of all those who are trying to ensure the functioning of the rule of law and constitutionality. Therefore, the Zares Group stands firm for all the arguments it has already put down and advocated on numerous occasions. For several years, the yoke of snakes erased has continued. Finally, the government has come to resolve this issue with respect for and respect for constitutional decisions. I understand that this is very infuriating to the opposition and to the representatives of that government who was unable to do anything in this area, which has complicated this issue and has internationalised it precisely with the inability to resolve this shamefully open issue in a legal way. This demagogism is likely to continue within this Commission. The only good side of this investigative committee is that Members do not receive meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u92	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mrs Melita Župevc will be the first to debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u93	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I must say that I really did not intend to discuss today because I felt that there was no more to be said than what we said when interpreting interpretation in the National Assembly. It was obvious to us today that we were laughing at this darkness. We're not laughing, we're appalled at how far you're willing to go. And I can see that in your kind, too, he somehow understands the interest in this subject, which arouses feelings. Among the 37 signatories, the request for a parliamentary inquiry can be found in Chamber 7, 8. They're gone. And what you're doing with this investigative committee is not political, it's a politically motivated investigative commission. As a mantra, you repeat what you said a hundred times in the National Assembly. You got the arguments, you got the numbers, but that obviously doesn't convince you. What I think is at least right is that you are talking again today about those who are losing their jobs every day in this country, which are afraid for their future, because they have absolutely nothing to do with each other. And you know it. But this, as I said, is convenient politics, convenient demagogy. I think that the best description for your parliamentary commission of inquiry, which you will of course receive, was given today by the Minister of the Interior, who said that this parliamentary commission is against the rule of law and common sense. I must say, I completely agree with that. Today in this House to re-operate with lies. It was said that damages were a fact. That's not true. No compensation was awarded under the law. One of the opposition's speakers today said, "If they're legal, that's different." Yeah, well, that's a first! That's essential, that's fundamental. Whether it is legal or illegal, there is a fundamental difference. But of course you don't care about this difference. In your explanation of the request for a parliamentary inquiry, you explained, inter alia, why this Commission of Inquiry is in the public interest. You're concerned about the threat to the public finances system. And it was to this House that we wanted to set up an investigative commission to determine the suspicion of damaging public finances, this is the Mercator case. We keep coming back to this case. Because if you were really concerned about public finances, the threat to the public finances system and the suspicions of damage, then you would not be banned or prevented by this House under your tactics, in order to establish an investigative commission such as you will receive today, because by all procedures and procedures you can have it because you have enough signatures. The previous opposition also had enough signatures, but the commission of inquiry was not established. Or another case where you're worried about public finances and when we're talking about investigative commissions. We had an investigative committee investigating the purchase of Patrio's armored armor, but she didn't finish her job. Why not? Because you who are concerned about the public finances system have prevented it. There are only two specific cases, so you and the Slovenian public do not want to say that you are concerned about jeopardising the public finances system. Because if I were you, I've listed two specific cases where you could have done something different, but you're not. And you want to find out, among other things, what are the interests and clienteleistic links in the investigation committee. The interest is here alone, and this is respect for the principles of the rule of law. It's so simple. And as has already been said today by my colleagues, we wanted this request to be supplemented and to be held accountable back by 1992, when there were actually thousands deleted from the permanent population register. But that's selectivity, or otherwise: ordinary politics.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I have said many things before on behalf of the Group of Members, so I will continue a little more relaxed. I speak for myself. Once again, because we have entered the field of cheap demagogies, I will also afford it myself, and I call on you Members to request a public announcement of the presence of Members in the workplace. This is important for citizens and citizens, for voters and voters, to see who actually gets that kind of money, significantly more than Mr Aleksander Todorovic, who on the legal path is demanding some compensation. And since I believe in the rule of law and believe in the legal authorities and judicial authorities that determine whether one or the other is justified, I believe that if such an outcome occurs - or first-degree or legal authority - there must be strong arguments that the result of some judicial hearing is the same as it is. And I don't understand that the National Assembly and Members are constantly involved and involved in court cases, because you know the difference between the branches of power. Mr. Grimes, you know, you're a trained man. You know we don't have this right to "dispute" and ask questions about what it has decided and what the judiciary has found. There are other ways! There are other ways. If someone is not satisfied, let them sue the judges too, let them claim their rights. But not politically and demogosically, as some people do in the National Assembly. We have heard many times that we should arrest citizens so that we should reverse the findings of this or that court. Who are we? We are ordinary Members. We are Members and we are responsible and constitutionally responsible for the legislation of this country and for the functioning of this body, namely the National Assembly. And we have to do it from the heart, as my colleagues say. From the heart and even in the consciousness that this is our job, that we have to work here. We have a good salary. It is not the best in the European Union, but it is a good, decent salary and we must also earn this salary. We deserve it by working. You two, Mr Grims and Mr. Tanko, you're working. We see you, we listen to you. Nonstop. You're extremely hardworking, and I appreciate that very much. But if we were to work, and if we were to direct this work and this energy that you have, to the right things, not to such proposals and to set up such unnecessary and expensive commissions. For even though there is no meeting, as I said before, it is likely that this extra burdens the budget of the National Assembly. Why? So that we don't come to any conclusions. To come to the conclusion that some officials respect the law, respect the Constitution, and have found it to be so many and so many deleted and try to resolve it. But you are trying to criminalize and create an atmosphere of emergency situations that are not, of course, because we have a lot of other issues that are more pressing, more current and which are the subject of a more serious opinion of the National Assembly. I therefore hope and allow myself to say that this proposal is doomed to political failure, such as the failure of your interpretation against the Minister of the Interior. At the time you set your goal, you thought the public would applaud you because you wanted to prove that you were saving this public from a great injustice, which would cost you huge public funds from the public budget. This intimidation, this attempt to make the public really concerned, has not met with widespread approval. People aren't stupid! People know where the real problems are, and whoever they are - I'm not gonna use that word and I'm gonna say - who's messing with them. Years ago, I remember a similar situation, I myself participated as a diplomat of the process, which was called the Search for a Way to the European Union through a Spanish compromise. About the same circles I was a target, and we were all those - including then Prime Minister Drnovskok - target attacks, czech: what will happen now?Oh, my God! We're gonna sell it all out! They'll buy everything! Just like I'm hearing today, what we're gonna pay for! We'll pay billions to the wiped out. That's when it was said - we'll be picked up by strangers. Look where we are today, what we sold - 20, 30 properties and mostly other foreigners, not those you were afraid of! This is an unnecessary creation of some extraordinary situation, one of the Patos, where you hope to regain what you are politically losing because you are no longer credible. Because in four years of the previous government you have done nothing - not to solve this issue, not to save it back. You were talking about constitutional law. Constitutional law, you know, requires a two-thirds majority, and that was talking in vain. How will you convince two-thirds of this House - thank God, there are many people in this House who are thinking with their heads! However, you did not think you would convince two-thirds of Parliament that it was possible with such a constitutional law, discriminatory, and which would actually violate human rights and which would repeal constitutional decisions, to end this problem! You're not that naive, because you knew that this was just a way to slow down, slow down, and not solve it. And that's why there's been an internationalization of the problem! That is why it is the European Union and the Council of Europe and the European Ombudsman, and Amnesty International - that is, distinguished companies, Members of Parliament. You know that Amnesty International is not anyone; it is an organization that acts seriously and does not operate according to an ideological key. This is an organization that hopes to say, say bob bob anywhere in the world, but for you there are no their calls, there are no their assessments, their findings, something was true if so many people in Slovenia and outside Slovenia have found that something "does not count" that something has to be arranged. And now finally, when we have the Minister of the Interior, who was hoping to grab this problem, for the horns, energetically, without fear of being politically burned by this; of course, you have seen that this effect has not been, and now you are angry and now you want one commission and you want to continue an unprecedented debate that has already been concluded. That is why I agree with my colleague, Mariana Pottec, who said earlier that it is better not to fall back on this provocation and constantly open this issue, because everything is clear. If the Constitutional Judges had found out something, if the legal profession had found out something, if the international legal profession had found out something; would they have sent me back here to everyone? And that's what this committee wants. I understand, you need room to scream, to create these extraordinary conditions, you're going to mix. You'll be mixing the unfortunate workers and the workers of Moore, MIP, Mehan. Why do I always mention what's going on on the coast? Mehana, maybe Luke Koper, maybe Inter-Europeans, who are the victims of your tycoons and your political recruitment policies that led to the collapse of that company. And now we will abuse these consequences in order to prevent this issue from being resolved?Oh, my God! No! No! We're not going to this game. We are not going to this game and therefore we have made it very clear that this commission will be created because you probably have the conditions for it to be created. Keep it, act, tell the world of Slovenia what you think needs to be said. But I believe that most citizens and citizens of Slovenia have already understood what this is really about. It will also turn out to be a major waste of energy, an abuse of the National Assembly, but a waste of public money again for something that will not actually produce any results. So my advice is: let's relax today, let's say one more time, one last time, what we have to say to each other. Mr Grims, I always listen to you very carefully; in fact, I respect you. I respect your attitude, including Mr. Friend. Everyone has a position, and it's legitimate. That's right. But you failed to convince us and the public and you will not convince her because you have no arguments because you are bossy with arguments because you are unfair and unconstitutional and this is how the state cannot function. One more time. Stay out of court. We're MPs. Let us be clear about identifying and identifying divisions between authorities. Did anyone wonder if we have the right to speak here about a court decision regarding a compensation? Where are we? North Korea, Turkmenistan? I hope not. I hope not. Well, Turmenistan, at least it has natural gas. Maybe there's something useful about that. We don't have it. Let us at least have respect for democracy and the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u97	I have a procedural proposal that will somehow be unprecedented. In fact, whenever we make a procedural proposal, it is common for us to protest something. My proposal will be quite the opposite. Mr President, I propose that you specifically and explicitly commend the honourable Member of Zares, who has so clearly pointed out four times that there was no one in this Chamber who would have listened to him from the fact that he represented the position of the same party. I understand that he was justifiably offended, for it is indeed a shame that his Members do not justify drawing large amounts of money for ignoring even the position of their own parliamentary group, but I will give him the right one and I understand him from this point of view. He drew attention to a legitimate fact. Indeed, there was almost no one to listen to him until the end. In the end, one appeared who evidently came to the rescue of honor or may be waiting for his turn. But the fact that the empty seats of Members were indeed there, of course, bears witness that they probably do not deserve their money. Although I must add this in the same breath: given everything that Mr Juri said, I also understand that they were gone. I'd be ashamed if I were them, too, or at least I'd be embarrassed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u98	Mr Grimes, thank you so much for your proposal. I will take the first part into account and commend Mr Yuri. But I will also commend you for making such a proposal. Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's a topic that puts pressure on every conscious Slovenian. Even those who have acquired Slovenian citizenship and become equivalent to all Slovenes. It especially puts pressure on all the invaders who don't care what happens to our Slovenia. It is true that some people still feel today that independence is a mistake and that the invaders are guilty of being erased because we have chosen our own country, which is certainly based on legislation, so that those who have speculated have lost their documents. This is not the fault of honest and conscious citizens who should now pay the price of speculations so-called erased. The story of deleted is nothing new, since it has been going on since 1992. In each government, a minister was found who reduced the number of so-called deleted by a few hundred, but everyone, including the citizens who monitor this calvary, would expect the number to decrease. But no! This year, under the tactics of the current minister, the number has increased by a few thousand; this cannot be true! And if I come from a general public opinion, as people say, as well as a profession, it is unacceptable that this is simply a matter of political interest, corruption, clientism and a plan of financial exhaustion of the country. For today, when we fight for every euro and for the existence of an economy, for jobs, such intentions mean that we do not want to prove that we are a rule of law and that this is the only right way; you want to bring the country to its knees at all costs. This is not what the citizens of Slovenia want. It is also unconstitutional and I do not know the Slovenian who imagined the rescue of the deleted in the way you perform it. You exhaust the country and thus expose your own people and offer poverty and misery, while on the other hand you give to people who are not even our citizens and Slovenia means only as much to them as last year's snow. We can't do that and we can't allow that. You have been elected from Slovenian citizens and you are obliged to work in favour of Slovenia, as you are bound by the oath you have made before your own nation. I think that the National Assembly should take a decision and vote on it as well. For what is happening is not acceptable to the Slovenian nation, but only to individuals who have been given the opportunity and the power to realize the interests of those who want only money from the country created by honest and conscious Slovenians.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice President. As some of you have noted: 30 Members have the right to file for work, to set up an investigative commission and to be established by the National Assembly. The Commissions of Inquiry in this National Assembly have already been somewhat successful, in the sense that they have actually found damage to social property, that they have found other involvement of various politicians and political parties in the injury. But the problem has arisen quite procedurally here, in the National Assembly, because Members and Members did not stick to each other, as the law states that at least at the last meeting of the National Assembly a report of the Commission of Inquiry should be considered. Although the report was adopted on the investigative committee, you have successfully blocked some of those who are currently in the coalition and voted down - I think with one member more - that the investigative commission's report has not been considered. I hope it doesn't happen this time. Of course, some Members are talking about not knowing how "big, fat ass" those who run investigative committees. Far from that, it's a lot of hard work, the right work, if you want to make a proper report. I am sure that, unfortunately, some who for decades have wanted to feed with some half-truths or some legal adaptation, as they please, in this Parliament - do so all the time. I am convinced that the purpose of this commission of inquiry is to correct the injustice that may have occurred to him. Personally, I've been involved in quite a few cases where I've helped people get their citizenship, that these things have been settled, but they wanted you to. On the other hand, the purpose of this commission of inquiry is not to allow anyone who has also publicly said that he does not want to have anything from this country, but today he is exploiting some emptiness, some naivety, something that is not acceptable, for the vast majority of citizens and citizens. As far as Mr Aleksandr Todorovic is concerned, I happen to know him because I come from those places and I know how he was and how his work was. It is true, however, that the work of this commission of inquiry will really need to determine why, where, and how this number suddenly changed so dramatically. Remember, colleagues and colleagues, that we also had a referendum in this country where citizens and citizens decided. And some of the positions of arrogance and power, and several times, here also told their President and Slovenian people that they would not take this into account and vote against the will of the Slovenian people. I am confident that this commission of inquiry will do its job and that it will have the opportunity not to prevent it, as you did in 2000, from adopting reports.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u103	Look, an interesting starting point was set by one of the key people of the coalition who ruled when he said that this commission was supposed to be dealing with, I quote, "a non-existent problem". Yes, for God's sake, what is the bigger problem facing the whole of Slovenia today than the lack of expertise and ignorance of this government?Oh, my God! It is only in a few months that we have experienced, with more than a few percent of the average development, that we have fallen over the European average into a decline that is drastically worse than the largest part of Europe! That's very presentable. This is a key problem - the incompetence and ignorance of the government and the ruling coalition! The main problem for all of Slovenia! How, then, can this be done in such a way?Oh, my God! It was also said that everything we are stressing today should have been said a hundred times already, but of course it is not, because the new legal situation is a judgment on behalf of the people on behalf of the Maribor District Court of 3 November 2008. Thus, it is now about six months old, but it can be discussed for the first time in this House, and I should point out that there is an extremely wrong understanding of the law and fundamental political principles, if it is said that the judgments of the courts should not generally be debated. No, no, no, no, no! In fact, the case that has been used, North Korea and the like, is quite the opposite - in democratic countries, every judgement, including the Constitutional Court's judgment, becomes the subject of widespread controversy - in the professional and general public. This is a normal democratic process, which is also a function of mutual control and balance between different branches of government, because democracy is based on this, but not on unconditional respect for something that someone invents. This is said to be the case in every democratic country, every judgment of any court, including the Constitutional Court, is normally the subject of various controversy in the professional public and in the general public. This is said, through the media, the legislative branch of the government, the executive branch of the government. It's a normal democratic process. Just in North Korea, ladies and gentlemen, the judgments of the courts are not being discussed! Where do you think you're going? And for this reason, of course, it is precisely the fact that every judgment must be debated in an argument, in some way also the principle of political culture. Whoever advocates the opposite does not have much in common with European political culture. But when I specifically speak of this interim judgment on behalf of the people, I would point to that starting point that I had previously set. What happened the last time we faced this topic when it came to the question of interpolation? The red thread of the Minister's reply, the red thread that he took and also confirmed by the President of the Government and the Government, having adopted the starting points of the reply, is, again, "the issue of compensation by issuing supplementary decisions has no connection." The issue of compensation by implementing the supplementary decisions has no connection. Minister and President of the Government - same sentence! And then the Members. You spoke differently about the content that was the same. "The imprecise indication from the interpretation is that by issuing decisions deleted, the system of public finances is being jeopardised. The additional decisions do not have any effect on the right of compensation." And so on. That's what everyone said: from reals, from SD, and so on. And look what that means in the light of this judgment. The Court, however, decided something completely different. The Court of Justice said that the SDS has consistently warned you that the decision issued puts forward a new legal fact and thus constitutes an actual substantive basis for the claim for compensation. It is stated that, according to the Court's judgement, the deadline for the expiry of the application under review begins on the date on which the Ministry of the Interior issued the so-called deleted certificate that it also had a permanent residence. It also points out that it also assessed the eligibility of compensation and notes that, since the Constitutional Court had so ruled, the State's conduct by making the compensation claim on a substantive basis - that it was justified. It is clear from the Court's view that it is crystal clear that, notwithstanding the fact that this is an intermediate opinion, that a final compensation has not yet been decided by a final judgment, as you claim, but after this crystal clear legal decision, it is clear that it is clear that the issue of these decisions has nothing to do with compensation actions and with the deadlines for them, pure legal ignorance and non-professionality. And this includes such a government - even in the most exposed part, as I said with a quote - as well as MPs and Members of the ruling coalition in Parliament. And that's true for all the Members, and I still have a whole bunch of quotes, but you probably don't want to hear them now, because you're probably pretty embarrassed to see it back. The fact is, then, that the interpretation and performance of the rulings, which have all the time claimed that the issuance of the decisions has nothing to do with the possibility of payment of compensation, is to say that it was, as political propagandists then claimed, a triumph of the transitional left, or SD, LDS, Ares and DeSUS. But you know what this story with some jokes, but unfortunately with all the fact of this joke, it really means? That the court added that the achievements of the government, ministers and MPs of the ruling coalition were a triumph of ignorance and incompetence - SD, LDS, Zares and DesSUS. This means a substantive judgment of the coalition. And look, there's something else that needs to be highlighted. For the last time, one was interesting, because in this context - and I must stress this in particular - in this context this increase in the number of so-called deleted for half just so just shone in the right light. This is why it is so important, and this is why there is only a clear public interest. The last time someone complained, you're talking about the government's incompetence! No, no, no! Note, this is something quite different: we are talking about inexpertibility and ignorance, which is obviously in the light of this judgment of the court. In fact, what is the most destructive, why is this an important difference? Because incompetence and ignorance are the most destructive in combination with vehemence and arrogance. The scale with which you rejected all the proposals for dealing with the economic crisis, which were prepared and submitted in good time and in good time and submitted to the National Assembly or some of them showed ignorance and deepened their economic crisis, and the arrogance that you show over and over again when you mock the opposition members when they present legal facts. That is why this is such a big problem, and, of course, this only fully confirms what I said in response to the statement made by one of the coalition members who said that this commission would deal with the non-existent problem. No problem in Slovenia is in size or about as exposed, both devastating to the entire of Slovenia and the incompetence and incompetence of the existing government, which in this case has even been confirmed by the court! We didn't think of that. It's the judgment of the court, people of God. And it is very interesting that the same lack of expertise and ignorance was possible, by means of arguments, with legal facts, to present from the perspectives of even the government's legal service yesterday when the law was being examined, a novel on the Penal Code, which according to the legal service of the Government itself, the legal service of Parliament and, in view of the Supreme Court's judgment, is obviously unnecessary and only introduces an additional legal confusion. But I don't understand how it didn't seem worth writing or informing the public, but if anyone did, it would be worth all the credit and all the recognition. But maybe someone else will be, and I hope that, because this problem, people, will have great material consequences. This judgment actually means exactly what I started with: according to this judgment, compensation will be a fact sooner or later. It is clear that our courts are slow to take this step, but it is also clear that this will cost very much, because the trial itself represents costs, only the issue of these decisions, already an increase in this number, from the point of view of the costs paid by all taxpayers, is an extremely high cost. But the fact that this is carried out in such a way that it is so wrong that it can all end up in court, but it is even worse, because it goes over several steps and it costs the court itself and the costs of so-called free lawyers, which in practice we pay the taxpayers again. That's gonna cost a lot of money before we even get to the damages. And there's something else that's gonna cost you extra. This is forgotten, however, that this also entails the exercise of certain rights to return from the social sphere. And that brings these rights to the full with interest. You know what numbers will only be made there! This shines in the right light of this increase from 18,305 to a total of 25,671 so-called deleted, if we also take into account the words of the Secretary of State, Mr Klemenčič, from the Ministry of the Interior, who said at the same meeting dead coldly: "It can happen that someone will be given a decision also to which he will not be entitled." This is again a citation from a magnetogram; if anyone doubts the correctness of these quotations, I have everything here, they can come right up and check it out. What does this mean in practice: 25,671 decisions will be issued for which not even a representative of the Ministry of the Interior can guarantee that they will go into the hands of the right people, at least not everyone. And that's what we're gonna pay for. And we are already paying, because you are making these decisions, ladies and gentlemen, so uncritically. This is why we once proposed, persisted, and today we propose and insist that this be regulated by constitutional law. To re-examine those already issued in the same way as will be the case for all futures. For now this creates inequality before the law. In fact, according to this judgment, the Court is absolutely out of date for 3 or 5 years, depending on what things are going on. Let's say we take five years. And you need to know that most of these decisions, which Mr Bohinc then stopped issuing as former SD Minister, are due in the period when this deadline has actually expired, and these people, if they have not already filed a complaint, will be in a completely different legal position than those to which you are now issuing decisions because they are aware of this new legal fact. It was published in public. It was in all the media. Where's equality before marriage? And this, of course, confirms that there was still some justification for our interpretation - your words, however, reflected incompetence and ignorance. I'm sorry. This leads in practice to consequences that can be exceptional. For the cost of issuing this inflatable number itself, which I do not know is the right number, the final number, whether the right number is the previous number, or which is the right one. These costs of issuing these decisions will be high. But even worse, it's what they're after. They shall entail the possibility of judicial proceedings, the costs of courts, the costs of lawyers, the costs of compensation and the costs of exercising social rights back without any restriction. This will be the only case when there are more beneficiaries, when they are able to apply any reparations in return indefinitely. In other cases, for example, when it comes to victims of Nazism and fascism, for people who suffered in concentration camps, for those who were criminally murdered after World War II - there were also children, women in between - all of them had drasticly limited rights. There's no such limit here. Since it has always been said, it has always given up, so this increased number is so much more frightening. That is why it needs to be examined! Because you've always given up something in return, and I'd only remember three cases. First of all, the video was even on television as an example of unlawful deletion and suffering victims, for General Aksentijevic. It was like a free video, sometimes when the former SD president was at the head of Radio Television -- and everyone with nostalgia was watching that period. Then it turned out that this general was in paramilitary units in other republics, even one video we saw on television. Specifically from Bosnia, the situation surrounding Sarajevo and suddenly said, "No, no, no. He is not erased, no, no, but this is a mistake, but it is not," even though you used to spin a free spot for him, as if he were a victim, and you gave him up. Although, I don't know, at least you didn't act Scripturally, because according to the Bible, the lost son who returns is the most valuable, and as a lost red son, he returned with the belief that he would be precious, but - you gave him up. Then came the next story with Mr Todorovic, who had long been the real symbol of the deletion and deleted until the court had informed him, there, along with interest of some EUR 55,000 in compensation per hand. And suddenly you said, "No, no, no, but he's not erased. This has nothing to do with the deletion," which - by the way, all those who have read the reasoning of the judgment, you know that it is not true, but it has something to do with the deletion, as it is justified - and you have given up even to him, though, you have previously almost worn it on your hands. And now that this judgment is here, I'm waiting for you to give up this time. Again and again is the fraud and fraud and the red thread of this coalition, in addition to the incompetence and ignorance that this judgment very clearly proves, thus becoming and remains a fraud. What's it really about - it's clear! At the expense of taxpayers with massive damages, with enormous costs for unnecessary judicial proceedings, for unnecessary costs of lawyers who will earn a great deal of money by doing so, you seek to get new voters. For the greatest legal nonsense that is repeated here repeatedly, besides the fact that the issue of decisions has nothing to do with the deadlines for compensation or the possibility of action for damages, where the judgment of the court is lying to you, is that all of this has nothing to do with the possibility of obtaining new voters. It's crystal clear what the condition is for you to become an electorate. You have to have a permanent residence for a certain number of years. And by admitting back, for a decade or more, that he had a permanent residence here, wherever he really was, because that's what it's going to look like, and then paying him nicely for it, giving him the opportunity to become a citizen. And once a citizen, of course, the story is such that it can be stretched out quite a bit. It is also a matter of making it easier to obtain different statuses for family members and so on and so on. In short, it is a very thoughtful and far-reaching project that will be catastrophic for Slovenia. Because with your incompetence and ignorance, you put Slovenia in a position to become a symbol of the development of Europe, which it achieved two years ago when it reached 7.2 percent economic growth, a symbol of the decline of one of the former transition countries. And you have achieved this in just a few months with your incompetence and ignorance! And with this you have deepened the crisis; with your arrogance, with the scale with which you have rejected our proposals that would enable you to face this crisis well. And one of these proposals, ladies and gentlemen, is also the constitutional law on so-called deleted, which could save this country a lot. But you don't care. As a result, I have pointed out earlier, the most harmful is the inexplicableness and ignorance associated with vehemence and arrogance. For this is how the greatest harm is done. And I can only say, as a representative of Gorenjska and as a citizen of this country, that I feel very bad about that. And please, be careful! Stop the horses! Let's give this thing, if we make this decision, we still have to get it into the constitutional framework, because it would be the only smart solution for Slovenia, the only way that at least after this wage things could be settled legally and justly, and by the same vat for everyone. This option still exists. But back to what we witnessed, how could 18,305 so-called deleted - a number that we believed all the time, because we had no reason not to, but now, given your claim that we should check it out, we will do otherwise. Obviously, you too know that what they say or find out on the transition left is never to be believed. All right, we'll respect that opinion, you already know why you're saying that. And next time, we'll check every number. How this could have grown to 25,671, we will look at it specifically with this investigator, and in doing so we will take this very opinion into account, that we should have done something different before, because you know how you are doing, what principles, how you are doing, and then you say, we should check this number earlier. We didn't, because we just trusted you and we thought you did the right thing to represent some right political force. You say it's not like that. All right, we respect that and we'll take it into account in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u104	Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Earlier, the speaker had said that the judgment he had in hand should be dealt with or commented on with some jokes, and then, of course, he had some arguments of his own and of his own. I would say that because we were just listening, a lot of jokes and also a certain measure of inexpertibility and ignorance were needed. One wonders what is the point of repeating certain untruths, as we have done so many times on the part of today’s opposition in connection with the deletion. I believe that, even in the National Assembly, and especially in our public, we have achieved some decent level of awareness of the importance of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, that these repeated untruths cannot become the truth. Otherwise, it would be worth imagining what kind of country we actually live in. Comrades of the opposition, you will receive and you will have an investigative commission, no one will deny it to you. The Constitution is clear on this. If a third of the members of the National Assembly request a parliamentary inquiry, it shall be ordered. A little more sensitivity and decency, however, I would expect from you. You are talking about identifying those responsible for the preparation and execution of the count of so-called deleted. The term "so-called deleted" is, unfortunately, almost used, but of course it is wrong to talk about the number of so-called deleted, but it is too much. Just remember who they've already counted and counted in half history. And later, of course. Remember the 1970s when Austrian nationalists demanded the number of Slovenians in Austria as a condition that they begin to comply with Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty. At that time, even Austrian Federal Chancellor Kreisky strongly opposed such a census of the Slovenians, stating that he had too much bad experience from the time that the Third Reich counted Jews and other Nearians. The Slovenians in Italy have also been given such recalculations, counting attempts, even though they had their surnames earlier. The Bible was mentioned earlier, and some Christian teachings have been mentioned, so all I am adding is this: Don’t do to others what you don’t want others to do to you. These things are so simple. Have your commission of inquiry and investigate, but maintain at least a minimum of decency and acknowledge that at least some of the deleted have been wronged and these injustices need to be corrected. Those who have not been wronged have nothing to fix, it is so easy. And these are also the standards of the European Union that you so much swear on, but probably even some shit in your pocket. I'm almost sure of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u107	The honourable Member of the ruling SD made a heartfelt appeal against the counting of cases so-called deleted, and I can only gladly conclude that we have never counted them and you have counted them; twice. And I'm sure you know why you used those words. Now we're going to look with the investigator at why you counted them twice and why you had so many different outcomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u109	Mr. President mentioned me. All I'd say is that there's ambiguity that's obviously present. In the decision or decision-making act, the applicants of this commission of inquiry wrote that you require the identification of the political responsibilities of the holders of public functions who were responsible for the preparation and execution of the count of so-called deleted. You have used this term "counting", "numbering of so-called deleted" in the act of designation, which is based on our proposal. That's all this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u111	I just hope that she will listen to me very carefully in the second Member. As you know, honourable Members and Members of the SD and others of the coalition. We never counted so-called deleted. But you are, and twice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u113	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Any rational thinker would ask what leads me to debate on a topic that had long since been left to hope that the current opposition could, and in the previous term, be able to prove to the coalition that they were wrong when they denied the deletion, and that they would have to face the responsibility, sooner or later, for what they did not recognize, that they had been wronged by a large number of people, and that they also caused additional damage, that they were slowing down the problem and causing higher costs. Because if I now think as the opposition thinks, that coffee is not a problem or that coffee cannot be saved, I could also return at this level and wonder how much coffee the commission will get when it takes, if it is - banal to say so - but the only cost the investigative commission will cause. But I am much more disturbed by the question of why the opposition is so insensitive to people's hardships and what I should expect from the political responsibility of my political rivals and opponents, who even go so far as to compare the hardships of some people with the hardships of others and fight each other. That's the worst part. They're not rich. They're not tycoons. They have problems. I think we've already proved with a number of concrete stories what sad, tragic life stories this is, but you don't say anything about any willingness to solve this problem. A man must be a masochist by now to be able to discuss these things and hope that they can be proved to someone. My only hope and the only fact that I insist on is that, in fact, the records will stand, not us, but those behind us, when they see how the relationship to human rights protection and the attitude towards respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court in the young country of Slovenia has formed, studied and ascertained what has happened, and they may wonder how such a thing could have happened when the awareness of human rights and sensitivity for all cases of violations has increased so much. It's like we can't see people's distress here. Of course, I cannot go beyond the constitutional right that one third of Members have the right to request an investigative commission. However, I rightly wonder what the purpose of setting up such an investigative committee is if those who make the request know everything in advance. They know in advance what the financial consequences will be, they know in advance that the connections are, they know in advance that the counterfeit numbers are, everything is known in advance. But, you know, the Slovenian proverb says, twice in the mill, I'll say it, and three times in Parliament. But the saying, why is it said twice in the mill, is related to people always coming to the grinding of flour and the story had to be told again and again because the arrivals did not know the previous story. And we've been telling this story -- and I'm sorry to say that I'm using the term "story" -- we've been telling this story for a long time. And every time we start retelling it, the convictions and accusations of those who have not been confessed to it deepen. They are deepening in a way that is underestimating my mind and thus underestimating the electoral body. It's not just eccentric lies that can be proved because they're lies, but it's data manipulation. Say, I hope, Mr. Vice President, you won't interrupt me, because I'm gonna go for a moment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u114	Depending on what you're going to talk about [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u115	I'm just going to react to some claims that have already been made. This government has been credited with incompetence and ignorance because it has brought the country from the largest economic situation two years ago into the situation it is in. The exact data says that 7.2 - percentage growth is only significant for the first quarter of 2007, but not for the year as a whole. And the truth is that this is not the highest economic growth in Slovenia alone, because it was higher than this economic growth in the second quarter of 1999. As far as economic growth is concerned. Then we heard about the judgment handed down on 3 November 2008. On 3 November, this government has not yet been appointed, so the action has been filed in the time of the previous government; it has been filed for reasons related to the non-recognition of deleted and all other matters going into that context. Third time. It would really cheer me up if you once knew the cause and effect. They are not the only cases where we talk about consequences, but we do not acknowledge the cause and do not care about the cause. And when the coalition proposed to extend the investigation to a cause, it was suddenly unacceptable. But look, there's an investigation and an investigative committee, and now I'm gonna show you some paper, almost even a page long name, 19 lines is that. I'd like to know if any of the candidates can say the name of the commission of inquiry. I would like to know how the services of the National Assembly will write their name at the door of the President of the Commission of Inquiry. However, the purpose of the parliamentary investigation and the scope of the parliamentary investigation are also, of course, written on this paper. It's written based on copy-pasta, it's called text transmission. The difference is minor. It's some minor repairs. The most common is that the non-definition, that is "the purpose of finding out in scope", is to change by a verb or a Glagolitic stand that is "the scope of the determination." This is said to be possible to find a much less complex name for this investigative commission. However, I cannot create a promising picture on the results of this investigation for a very simple reason, because those who initiate it do not recognise it, deny it, deny it, and only one hope remains for me - that one of the Members who will be given money for a doctoral study, because it is a study related to the subject of constitutional law and electoral systems, at the end of the day, will still separate between permanent residence and citizenship. And I'm serious about this hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Proposer, Mr. Mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u117	I must say that I am very pleased that the honourable Member of the SD principle is this topic, because it is in fact a key difference between the candidates or the current opposition and the coalition, because we are building on knowledge, we are educating ourselves and we know that knowledge is only what we can and have justified in the last mandate the rapid economic growth of Slovenia. Where, though, if ignorance and incompetence in combination with arrogance and vehemence prevails, we see the results of your government, which in just a few months' time increased the number of unemployed - a disaster for Slovenia - economic growth with a few percent of economic growth over the European average has fallen into the decline of several percent below the European average - a disaster for Slovenia - has made an enormous public debt that will burden mine and yours and yours and of all of us descendants, the next generations - a disaster for Slovenia! You see, that's where the process comes in, if once ignorance and incompetence prevails, you see, that's the point, and that's why this investigator is so important, because it's going to go to the core of the problem that now burdens Slovenia. This is the ignorance and incompetence of the ruling coalition and the current government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u119	I am aware that Slovenia is in an unenviable economic condition, but it is irresponsible to report to this government that it is not dealing with the resolution of the economic crisis, but at every step of the way to propose extraordinary meetings, extraordinary commissions of inquiry, and I do not know what else leads to interest, attention, time - to others. Every time you or any member of your parliamentary group report to the Government that they are not dealing with the right things, I will try to draw your attention to how many times in this National Assembly we have already dealt with the requirements that have previously meant obstruction rather than assistance or cooperation. Thank you. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u120	Mr. Friend, please. You're the first to raise your hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Procedural [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u122	Procedural [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u124	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u125	This strong love between Mrs. Potrato and Mr. Grimes would like to end it. That's not the theme of today's point. Please - let me monitor the session! Warn both the one who has the replica and the one who discusses - that it is simply not a topic. And let's stick to deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Chairman. Very briefly. Although [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u128	Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u129	This time I am very procedurally in favour of my colleague's proposal. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Proposer, Mr. Mag. Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u131	Just an explanation. The previous government, and with all our support, has drawn up proposals for laws that could be in force during the new year, and if you had adopted them, you would never have faced such a situation, with such a poor economic situation as it is at this time. And now that we have prepared a new package of measures, we have proposed a special session and a general debate to shed light on all this issue - what the coalition will do, which is aware of its inexplicability and ignorance: drasticly restricts, totally contrary to the rules of procedure, the debate announced in private, I don't know, after 10 minutes and in one case 90 minutes. Which is a pure abuse of the rules of procedure for concealing incompetence and ignorance! And that is why we need this investigator, because it will go to the heart of the problem - the incompetence and ignorance of the transition left, the existing government and existing coalitions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u132	Mr. Luke Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Today we are talking about the establishment of an investigative commission, whose name I will not read, because I would take quite some time to work with my colleagues - you know what this is about. I say, you know what this is about, because today we are not talking much about the subject of investigation, but we are talking about the economic crisis. Because if we wanted to, there's a lot of arguments that could explain why, how, all those floods about economic growth could quickly explain why. But since it's not a topic, I'm not gonna do it. We discussed financial issues, compensations, not human rights, although this is the subject of an investigative commission. We talked about North Korea, we talked about the absence of Members and Members, especially those who want to investigate and so on. Collaborators and associates! Any career you choose for yourself, a doctor, a lawyer, a teacher - allow me to propose another goal for all your purposes, which should be pursued when pursuing a successful career. Become a fighter or a civil rights fighter. Make it a core part of your life. This will make you a better doctor, a better lawyer, a better teacher, a better Member. This fight will enrich your soul as much as anything else. He will give you that rare sense of nobility that can come only out of love and unselfish assistance to fellow humans. Make a career out of humanity. Hand yourself over to a noble battle for human rights. You will make yourself a better man, a better country from your country, and from everything around you, a better world to live in. Martin Luther King, I think this is said enough to argue and today's debate. Get the life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. There's still something that insists on us. It's more of a clairvoyant painting, but still. Compensation, ladies and gentlemen, is a legal fact. However, compensation is also an objective, the aim in particular for the deleted. That they are a fact, this is proved by legal practice, and that the government does not think so - perhaps a false answer or an incorrect one. The government wrote to one of the Members on the question of how many of these compensations will be: "The Ministry of the Interior has approached the resolution of the matter because of the necessity to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision." It continues: "Decisions will not grant compensation to persons or constitute direct legal settlement as a basis for payment of compensation." This was written by the Government in response to Mr Jožet Tank when he asked how many of these compensations would be paid. That this is an incorrect answer, of course, says the Minister herself in the interpolation process, when she stated that this compensation could be up to 2 billion tolars. You heard right: 2 billion tolars! At the same time, however, the Minister also commits himself to taking the Ministry of the Interior seriously to a comprehensive analysis of the compensation issue and to writing it in the report. As a member of the National Assembly, I would like to see this report as soon as possible, and I believe that I will not have it for a long time. Those we allow to do so, of course, are lawyers. We know about lawyers that we have recently amended a law that allows them to give themselves a price and also charge services at their own discretion. So much money in a pile - I believe they are already losing their hands on how this will go to different accounts and even these lawyers don't care much about Slovenia. We talked and we're talking about Mr. Todorovic. Mr. Todorovic received compensation from Slovenia and was employed in one of our companies during the period for which he claims to be deleted. He was employed in Maribor, he ran a welding workshop; how good he was, how bad he was, we've heard this before from another debater, I won't go into it. But today, when he is no longer employed, this company has gone bankrupt, talking about how he was erased and that his compensation belongs to him. He also likely received a legal judgment, and he will also receive compensation. Of course, I want to know if the courts that judge this will actually really judge where these people were when they say they were wiped out. Also, the information we have heard today that they have personal documents tells us that they have not been erased. Further, if we look at the facts, our brothers from the former Yugoslavia do not care about Slovenia and Slovenia and do not want a Slovenian passport. They want money, they want compensation, it's a tricky thing, and they're gonna fight for it to the last. Our lawyers, good lawyers, who are better than our judges, because if they were bad lawyers, they'd probably be judges -- you can do anything today, you can kill a man, if you have enough money, you're legally protected, different law firms can do it. Various lawyers, of course good lawyers, will be happy to help these scoundrels. I agree that it can't be all black and not all white that we've done something wrong. But, as it is said, in the legal practice that I have taken today - and this position was written by Dr. Erik Kerševan, who, by the way, is a consultant to the President of the Republic of Slovenia on legal matters - in this Legal Practice it is written in his words, which has also been said today, more than three times the opportunity has been given to these gentlemen, they have been invited to complete the documentation. Of course, it cost them absolutely nothing. For once again I will highlight the words of my acquaintance - it is a shame that we sold citizenship for the price of one bottle of beer. What these ladies and gentlemen had to submit to the administrative unit, they did not, because they either made fun of Slovenia at the time, or they even despised Slovenia, or of course they had another account. There were also examples of them being warned from their home countries that they would be relieved there, that they would not have the right to inherit, and there was also some tacturing from material movements; half the family remained here, half of them went home. Some even left because of national pride, fought on the fronts and in the Balkans, and occasionally came home on vacations. And today they want compensation. Please! But what bothers me most is, if we look at who is who, who comes from, who has done something before, but the matter is quite clear that here, on this pasture of two billion euros, there is also a desire for any representative from the respected government or perhaps their acquaintances, relatives - that I do not speak to lawyers, that I do not speak more specifically because I can be sued. I have to be very careful. That is why we have also written as proponents that we would also like to establish with this committee the connection of some public function holders in ministries, if this is not possible. And I believe that sooner or later it can come to that fact that there is some truth here too. And ladies and gentlemen, seven thousand differences, seven thousand people from 1992 to today, at the expense of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, that is seven thousand additional lawsuits. Where these differences were made, I don't know, and that's the purpose of this commission to find out. This, in order to be counted, was done in 1992 when we made the first census of citizenship after the end of the so-called war. What Mrs Beblerev said was that only blackcoats and Nazis were included, of course, that is not true, was counted by the then government with the census and we are just identifying the figures at the time and the difference that has crept into the number for 7,000 more reported today. And when we drag the preamble with gypsies, even gypsies multiply in Slovenia, and when we look at their material state, we can find that some gypsy family gets more than three labor wages together, and that doesn't bother anyone. In short, it bothers me that we care more about strangers than we care about our own. And that's why this committee is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u137	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I have previously given some facts on behalf of the Group of Members. I also argued that there can be no such thing as deleted in Slovenia. I gave the information that the congregations had to inform all those who were not in the citizenship record three times within three months. In 1991, immediately after independence and back in 1992. And that those who, after these three notifications, did not organise to have all the rights that go to Slovenian citizens have just agreed to the records of foreigners. These are facts, and there was no deletion here, and you now call this so-called deleted. And it is also true that the so - called deleted ones went to Brussels and spread untruths there. Of course, thank God, the European Commissioner has put them before the fact that he has certain criteria and not the ones expressed by the so-called deleted ones. And even so-called deleted ones have maligned Slovenia in Shentil at the border crossing. These are the facts. And when I said that the congregations had to inform these people who did not have a record of citizenship, let me read one document, one of the documents from 1990. There it was written down, the following instruction is given to all municipalities, the instruction to establish a central record of the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia in the Register of Nationality of the Republic of Slovenia: "In order to establish in due time a central register of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia which would enable the implementation of the new Constitution and the law of citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, which is expected to be adopted after the adoption of the Constitution, it is necessary to proceed immediately to the execution of the task in accordance with the following order: for persons born in Slovenia, the date of which one of the parents is a national of the Republic of Slovenia and the other is a national of the other Republic, and the parents of the other Republic of Slovenia have not agreed on their nationality" - so that no national citizenship is entered in the Civil Book - "is to be sent by return to the notification of the following content..." They had to do this. The executors were then empowered to do so and were not responsible. And what we had to inform them about: "We inform you that your parents have not yet agreed on your republican citizenship, even though it would be required by law" and so on "and we will sign you the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia according to territorial principle. If you do not agree with the entry of this nationality, please make a personal statement within 14 days of receipt of this notice and express disagreement." That is to say, we have sent them a notice that we will automatically enter them into citizenship if they do not want to come. That's an essential difference between coming and doing something. You only get it if you want it. But if you don't want to say it, say it. And there are also instructions on how to deal with minors. That's the same thing. So, very generous then. And anyone who wanted it could have gotten it. Thus, there is no dilemma: the one who wanted could have arranged it. Even so, if he did not report, he was granted automatic citizenship of a particular category. It's automatic! And now forward. It was said here that given that Amnesty International has certain concerns, it has certain requirements and warns us. Amnesty International is probably a reputable firm, so to speak. I can accept that, too, and I have my own opinion, but okay, I accept that. But even though Amnesty International as a reputable firm says that we have to "bubble" the country, we don't have to do it. If an organization like that says we have to jump into a waterless pool, that doesn't mean we have to do it. That doesn't mean anything. We can do things differently, and we'll do it anyway. And if Amnesty International doesn't say so, so I understand myself, but I answer one of my colleagues - if he thinks now that with Amnesty International's opinion we have to get the country to bankruptcy and we have to do it, it's not true, we don't have to do it, there's no need. It is necessary to consider what we will do and therefore there is also a Parliament here, so there is also a Government representing the interests of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. You don't have to jump in the pool without water, but you have to do everything you can to get the water inside, and then we can do other things. The next thing I would say was a lot of words when Slovenia started negotiating to join the European Union and a Spanish compromise was mentioned. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen - we are gentlemen themselves here - but the Spanish compromise is such a thing: at the time we had to force it. I remember that well, I was in this House. We received some faxes from Brussels, and later, thank God, the Danes, when they chaired the European Union, said and proved that the Spanish compromise was totally unnecessary and that Slovenia had accepted a Spanish compromise under pressure from something else. In fact, in the opposition, they were forced to vote in favour of what was then, because if not, it was said that Slovenia would not be admitted to the European Union, which was not true, someone was deceiving. The Spanish compromise was a shame for Slovenia, and thank God the Danes told us that. Who played some dirty game back here, I don't know what I'm going to do, but all I know is that the Spanish compromise was the black mark of the then ruling coalition. These are the facts, that the Danes later told us clearly and loudly, and thank God that they did, so today I wouldn't be bragging about it. The second thing I would like to say is that at that time, immediately after the independence, Slovenia offered all rights, including citizenship, to JLA members, who would stop the aggression against the Republic of Slovenia. There are documents for that, and I can read it for you, and I'm not gonna kill you with that, I'm just gonna show you that we have it. That's the document, we got it! These are the facts. And now I'm going to ask you, the one who actually attacked Slovenia then; well, we know what we call those who want to occupy a country, one way or another, occupy borders, and then move on. We offered them citizenship. But I will ask you: when in history and, say, Slovenia in other countries, have we offered such a generous citizenship that has attacked us? None! But here we did it to make these so-called deleted ones go to Shentil and then they show Slovenia as some dictatorial state and I don't know what else, but it's a little out of context. Excuse me. We were even so generous that we allowed those who attacked Slovenia to acquire citizenship and all the rights that stem from it. So it's not true what you say is happening to someone who is being wronged. No, we have been very generous, and I hope to say that we have been most generous in Europe in the award or award of citizenship. And now it's unfair for those of us that I'm going to mess things up even more. [[...]] When I mentioned that we were those people who were not and will not come directly to the records of the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia - we informed them three times. And 180,000 people took care of it. You fixed it! 18,000 of them are gone, and now up to the 180,000 affected, because because they have settled their status, they will not be able to sue the country, they will not get complementary decisions, they will not get money, and they will become loyal citizens. They will now pay with these lawsuits, which will and with damages to those who did not want to settle it and even pressured them to be traitors because they have settled their status and acquired the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. You see, that's unfair. That's what we're trying to tell you, and you won't listen to us, but you're telling us everything else. And then when we get back to you in the same style, you say, "That's not something to talk about, because it's not the subject of discussion." And here, the distinguished Madam President of the Education Committee said: "Why does the opposition not worry about the plight of small people?" That's what she said. I'll say the opposite. We're worried about that. When we were in power, we did everything in our power to have high economic growth and to have as many jobs as possible. We're worried. Maybe we did something wrong because we worked too hard to get jobs, and maybe we gave in to something else. Maybe we did it. And at the time, you were critical of overheating the Slovenian economy. I'm sorry I went to this area. I think it refers specifically to this debate. That the economy would overheat. Today, we see that we would be very grateful if we had an overheated economy. Very grateful, however, would be a percentage of higher inflation; only to have jobs to have a job. We have concern and concern for small people! Because what is happening in a deleted, supplementary decision is the basis for the action. Who's gonna pay for this? State. Who's the country that's putting in the country? Yes, all taxpayers. And who knows worse if they have to pay some amount? Yeah, probably one who doesn't already have enough. That's why we're worried. We care about the Slovenian state and we warn. We warned that such a way of rescue, as it now appears, would not be good for Slovenia, that there would be compensations and that if there were to be compensations, they would have to be brought to a reasonable limit. You laughed at us - I speak in parable; some also laughed. Now it looks like things are going this way. Even if both judgments are not yet binding, it shows which way they are going. I'm not sure if these two judgments are in a lower court right now, and that's going to change, and it's going to end this. No, the foundation is set, the analogy is set because the law applies an analogy. In the case of these two cases, the following 25,000 will also apply. That's the problem, and that's what we're pointing out. And today you're saying that's not true. Otherwise, you are expressing yourself a little differently today, because now that it is not true that there will be compensation, you can no longer say. I'm sorry, I don't mean anything by it, but you're not that stupid, are you? You know that's not gonna work, and we're not gonna fall for this. There'll be damages because they've shown up, and that's terrible. But that's not justified. I read you one document, and there's a whole bunch of documents talking about how generous we were when we informed these people. We've informed them three times to settle their status. In other countries, you have to do it yourself, you have to ask for it; here we have informed them three times. And also to those who attacked Slovenia, we have allowed them to acquire citizenship. This has never happened in history and nowhere else in the world, except in Slovenia. That was the interest at the time. That's why they can't be erased. And there's something else I'd like to read from this document that's very interesting. See what it says: "It is necessary to begin immediately with the computerisation of the data on citizenship and the registration of citizens. The entry is already possible, we are adapting the instructions for the use of the transaction." Now I'm asking you how you can lose 7,000 people if that's what's going on in your computer. It can't be done, people! The records were on paper, in plastic form, and then they were entered into the computer. I know exactly how this happened because I was in charge of this at the time; 1990, 1991, 1992 when we introduced it. We had a computer system in our congregation at the time, and other congregations had just received it. And it can't be lost in the computer, and there's a record on the paper. So the fact that 7,000 people have lost themselves, that they have now found the record - please! They didn't take the whole computer! It can't be! It was recorded somewhere, and there was a record on the paper. That's why, gentlemen, that's not true. However, if you are sure that this is true, then one way or another - this commission is necessary and this commission will be, I hope that it will find out something. Someone's gonna have to prove where those people were. I said earlier on behalf of the parliamentary group that we have received various documents at this time, and one of the documents says that one person who is now on this supplementary list of 7 000 has been living in one of the European Union countries for 30 years - proven by paper. Then how can he be here?Oh, my God! Probably have to find these computers, the disks that were then what they were, and it's going to happen that 7,000 people can't get lost. The instructions were that it should be entered into the computer immediately. He needs to start moving in now. That's not how it can be here. And I think it's necessary for this commission to figure out where it is now, who made the 7,000 now, where it came from. In fact, I could be a little less. And that is why, of course, I support such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u138	Yes, please, Mr. Yuri. Procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u139	No, no. A replica because he talked me into it, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u140	Mmm. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u141	Yeah, he obviously answered my statements twice and looked at me. Now, if it wasn't [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u142	Yeah. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u143	Surname [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u144	yes [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u145	was [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u146	Mr. Yuri. It's not. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u147	clear [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u148	forbidden, as far as I know. [[...]] But I think I would [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u149	was talking about [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u150	Assessed that it did not. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u151	Amnesty International. [[...]] So he answered, talked about my performance, looked me in the eye and said, "You, you, you..." - Now, if we were extremely formalists, of course, I'd say he didn't say, he didn't mention [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u152	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u153	My last name, but... [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u154	He didn't mention it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u155	There have been many instances when you gave the word for replica to people who were [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u156	I wouldn't do that today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u157	You wouldn't because it's Friday?Oh, my God! A laugh in the hall. Good.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u158	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u159	Mr. Petan, with coffee [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u160	The word has Mrs. Zvonko Černač, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u161	Dear colleagues. Today, the question of necessity, which is not only mentioned in this but also in other cases in the National Assembly, does not appear more than a hypothetical or philosophical question. More and more this question of necessity arises to us as a real question in view of the situation in which we are - the issue of the necessity of the government, the question of the need of individual ministers; would it not perhaps be even better if these governments were not, would it not perhaps be better even if these ministers were not? Wouldn't it be even better if there wasn't this National Assembly? At the end of the day, one person, one constitutional judge in this country, decides everything. The question of the need for this body will also slowly begin to be asked in the way that we are now witnessing to it. Which is bad. It is also bad that we are not discussing anything else in these days and that the policy has not been able to resolve this issue in the past period. There's been quite a few attempts. Countless attempts. It should be resolved in such a way that it does not rekindle such or other doubts and such or other feelings. This has also led to the proposed solution to the so-called constitutional law, which represents a high degree of political consensus, and this is also the only recipe for this issue to be resolved once and for all. You, the ruler, of course, were not at liberty to settle this issue, and you are the one who is constantly warming up this issue in Slovenian politics. Because once and for all, it's not in your best interest. On what would we build your platform on respect for human rights, constitutional law, the rule of law and everything else if this issue suddenly disappeared from the agenda? What would be the emotion of how the opposition is the one who is not in compliance with the Constitution, how the opposition is the one who is unaware of how important the Constitutional Court is and how important these decisions are if this case has not been in recent years? Would it be possible now that you are in power to take these economic measures? We may really be asking ourselves whether it would not be more necessary and meaningful to talk all day today about, say, the third package of government measures. We hear that we have considered the first in the National Assembly, including the second, and now we are to consider the third. In the meantime, Europe will probably be so consolidated that it is not the devil that it will not bring our countries behind it and save what has been lost in recent months. The first package was proposed by the previous government. It was about bank deposit protection. What broke out of the second measure was the Act on subsidisation of reduced working time, on which the OECD said in the last report that it would be better to avoid or recommend that it be removed immediately, because it is not the right measure to confront us with issues arising from the economic crisis. And the third measure was presented to you by the Slovenian Democratic Party on 24 April. And some of this is scheduled to be discussed this week in the National Assembly. Because your package doesn't want to be! He's not here. Not the first, not the second, not the third. What was more, from the outside, not inside, is known as bad. These are questions of necessity. Needs or unnecessarys. Needs or non-necessary functioning of handling, solving problems. And why this problem can't be solved over the years. If we respected the Constitution and constitutional standards, we would probably have saved him by now, for he was originally created by constitutional law. In order to implement the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence, independence of our country in Article 13, where an interesting precedent was drawn up when this same article was able to be challenged before the Constitutional Court, that same provision in the Aliens Act. And when it is necessary to find a solution to the need for consensus, it has been said recently in the National Assembly of the Constitutional Commission that no, we will not seek this consensus because the solutions you are proposing in the constitutional law, which has been proposed, among other things, have been unsuccessful since the middle of the previous term - unfortunately - from the position of former Minister, Mr Matei, and the previous President of the Government, Mr Janša, it has been said that we will not discuss this, because your proposed solutions go through a decision of the Constitutional Court. How are they going through the Constitutional Court ruling, please? And what solutions, though, have not yet been addressed! We haven't even started the procedure yet! If we were to initiate a procedure on the Constitutional Commission, if these solutions were to deal with this issue in a fair manner, by correcting possible injustices, preventing speculation and closing this issue once and for all with a two-thirds majority, it was said that no. This is not what we ruling will discuss, because your proposals go through a decision of the Constitutional Court. Which one, where? There was no answer. It was an echo, an echo, just like today, when it echoes the empty hall of the ruling coalition on the other side. The same thing happened on the Constitutional Commission. However, the Constitution is one, valid for all, for the time being, but not for all in the same way. We can also compare this case with a recent case where the Constitution is unequivocal. When the Constitution speaks of a parliamentary inquiry in article 93, which we are discussing today, which is unnecessary for some, by the way, for those of the worst constitutional advocates, it says: The National Assembly may order an inquiry into matters of public interest, but it must do so at the request of a third of the members of the National Assembly. And today you said it's true, it's not necessary, but since the Constitution says it, we don't have anything. One of the colleagues even said, "You wanted an investigative commission, you'll have one!" Hello? I heard right. You wanted it. You'll have it. It's a shame someone who's been sitting in this National Assembly has said that for three or two years. This is an investigative commission of this National Assembly established under an explicit constitutional provision. Founded because, in this case, the ruling coalition did not use the "finte" as it did in the referendum on law, and did not send this story to the Constitutional Court. Only this difference is between this story and that which we witnessed a few days ago, weeks or months ago, when the rulings used ligitimately allowed 'finte', which was based on complex assumptions that there were no lawyers on the registers for representation after official duty and offering free legal aid, which was denied by the Minister of Justice himself in the National Assembly when he said that only seven district courts had registered over 370. But on these complex assumptions, the ruling coalition sent a referendum request to the Constitutional Court and, with a majority of five over nine constitutional judges, this story was stopped; despite the fact that the provisions of Article 90 of the Constitution are exactly the same as those of this commission of inquiry. If at least one third of the Members so require, the National Assembly shall call for a referendum. He has to. The exact same provision in the case of a referendum where the Constitutional Court was appointed or five of the nine Constitutional Judges were appointed over the Constitution, as in this case. The only difference is that in this case, despite the fact that you are declaring it extremely important to you because of the horrendous violations of human rights, it did not seem worth going through. Because we'd make it! The same constitutional judges, five to nine would be the decision. Five to nine, ladies and gentlemen, or just gentlemen. Five out of nine, I'm sorry, five to four, five out of nine - thank you - would be in your favor. That's the reality. But because it's some question that you don't think is about losing words and energy, it happened as one of your colleagues said, and that's probably what she's thinking. The problem created by the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2003, namely, six years ago, has been tried by many to solve. Among them is your former Minister, current Rector of the University of Primorske, Dr. Rado Bohinc, when he began to issue decisions on the basis of the same point of the Constitutional Court decision. On the basis of the same decision of the Constitutional Court. And he stopped because he realized that a law, a legal basis, would have to be adopted in order to properly regulate the matter. A request for a referendum was filed against this law, it was rejected by 95% Slovenes and Slovenians, half a million of our citizens and citizens. And what? Nothing. Six years from now, the Minister of the Interior from the same political pool, only this time, the LDS code, starts with nothing for me, nothing for you to make a decision on. The judgement of the Court of Maribor explicitly states that the application is justified, the basis for the eligibility of this application is the decision - this, Bohincheva, of April 2004 - and the statute of limitations only began when this decision was given to the party. And so these decisions will today, despite the fact that the Government has recently answered the question that it is not true that the decisions they issue would be the basis for compensation claims. And crazy would be the one of these people who wouldn't pay the damages, because something better to get something that's already been earned in advance! It is quite clear that, in accordance with this case law, before the three-year limitation period expires, everyone will submit compensation claims and that this amount will not be small and will burden some of our craftsmen. Even if all of these compensations had been received, it would not have been so problematic if everyone had been entitled to it. The problem is that these decisions are made in a non-individual manner and allow the acquisition of property to someone who has not been harmed because it gives the right to compensation to all on the basis of a given fact, by some recognition of the State authority, which is based on the fact that this particular decision was issued and based on the 8th paragraph of the Constitutional Court decision, although 9 top lawyers, constitutional lawyers in their legal opinion, have never, by the way, revoked, which was also mentioned in one of the debates, justified in five points why such administrative decisions cannot be issued on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court - because we have a Constitution which speaks of the need to be legal or legal basis, since the 8th point is procedurally impracticable. And the conclusion? In view of all the above, the implementation of this point by the National Assembly should also be regulated by law. In spite of everything, it will be necessary to adopt a law for all the other cases and this problem will be settled, because it will be a matter of law, we will once again witness a great debate, big division, big politicisation, great emotion, because obviously it is not the goal to solve the problem, but to get as far as possible. There's also evidence of that. How else is it possible that from number 18.305, which, by the way, was discovered by your former minister, we suddenly get to number 25.671? That, I'm sorry it's impossible, it's not serious, it's kind of funny. And you did this count, not us. The records are very clear. However, it is quite clear that between these persons, if they actually exist, they are not the ones to which the decision of the Constitutional Court applies. And this is where we come up with the problem! If the parliamentary investigation finds such errors to be one, five, ten, fifty - all right, they will happen. It happens. Technology is also not comprehensive and such errors can also occur. However, if it is found that these errors are over a hundred, over a thousand and that these figures do not reflect the actual situation in accordance with the Constitutional Court decision and in accordance with the legislation in force, then this is a very big problem. A very big problem, which concerns not only the responsibility of the political minister and this government, but calls for subjective compensation and criminal responsibility, and at this point this country will show whether it is indeed legal or not. This is the Commission's purpose: to determine why it has not been possible in all these years to determine clearly how many persons, where the area where the injustice was possibly committed and from which address this injustice is intended to be rectified are derived. Hard work. Unnecessary work, I agree. Unnecessary work if this National Assembly could manage so much political wisdom to find out: indeed, the problem arose with the law adopted by the two-thirds majority. It is therefore right that this problem be resolved by the same law, by a law requiring a two-thirds majority. It is right that this problem is solved once and for all, because it is wrong to keep these issues open again and again, and it is right that we are a legal and social state to limit the amount of compensation. Everywhere, in all segments where some compensation is the responsibility of the State due to such or other conduct, these compensations are limited in one way or another. The eligibility of their applications must be demonstrated individually everywhere. Everywhere. Even in those relationships that are much more evident and where violations are much more evident. Everywhere. Just not here. Just not in that case. And you will not convince me that it is not your interest, the interest of those who wish to receive such or other political support on this issue. I'll do what my colleague said - whether you have it or not. People aren't stupid enough to miss out on. You can hold them for a while. But in the long run, believe me, it's not gonna work. I regret that we have not devoted ourselves to this issue on the Constitutional Commission with a little more seriousness. I also regret that the ruling coalition has not been able to accept the arguments that we have cited in favour of the adoption of the constitutional law, and in some ways I am sorry for you too, because I am confident that at the end of this investigation, no matter how or how you obstruct it, you will have to admit your wrong conduct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. There are few who are well paid in this Chamber of the National Assembly to listen in one way or another, at least collectively, to colleagues who are more towards the end of the debate. First of all, I would like to say that in our parliamentary group, every time and every debate on this issue, we have made it clear and loud that we are for the correction of the injustices, not only in this case in the case of the so-called deleted ones, but also in other cases. However, we have made it clear and clear every time that we want to tackle this problem in the same way as in all other cases. It is said that these rights, or this right to redress, can only be exercised in an individual way. Every person in this country lives their own life. Each person went through some of his situations, in all of these periods in which he lived in the territory of today's state of Slovenia. It is therefore not possible to generalise and, by one act, to order that all those who have been and have obtained the status of so-called deleted shall be rescued in a collective manner. A while ago, I asked the Home Affairs Minister a question where I asked her what had been done with these minutes and hearings, which had been carried out by the administrative units on the basis of the Bohinč decision. Here I have a record from 2005, when one of the clients was interrogated in the administrative unit because the letter sent to this address for the so-called deleted came back. And this party said in 2005 that the person mentioned at this address did not live for more than 30 years. This means, at home, that she moved from this address in 1975 and lives abroad, or in the European Union country, but abroad. It is said that she moved from the Republic of Slovenia in 1975. And the High Minister of Bohinc is this person who is written here - but here I have a record of this - wanted to serve a decision so-called deleted. I believe, as well as probably the majority or everyone in my group, that such persons who have been called upon under this criterion to settle the status of the so-called deleted are not entitled to these matters. And if this year the minister has decided to grant these persons the status of deleted persons, then she has encountered the same problem - a type of these addressees is unknown. In one of the previous discussions on this subject, my colleague, Mr Hrovat - a similar, identical problem - also mentioned. Therefore, individual approaches should be made to the determination of the number of deleted or to the resolution and exercise of the rights to deleted persons. Because the fates of these people are different, because when these people were in different ways, they were either applying to these addresses or they weren't, and they were checking out in the same way or they weren't. And if this remains in these records, then surely these people cannot gain this status. However, if it approaches collectively, then these matters are as they were written in this case. In fact, it could also be found that a number of people not only moved from Slovenia before 1990 or 1991 - many went later. Many have left with the returning army by ferry and land routes to other countries of the former Yugoslavia. Many left later, and some remained. And as colleague Petan said, they went to say in person that they did not want to gain this status as offered by the Republic of Slovenia. That is also why an individual approach is needed in order to establish, on the basis of writing, that is to say, documentary documentation or by witnesses, that it is a status or that it has been wronged. There's no other way. The way in which this problem has been addressed is, however, more than clear from these recent decisions coming from Slovenian courts. On the basis of a document that these people can obtain, they claim compensation. Some claim damages in court even when they were working when they were employed. However, I wonder how someone in court can claim compensation if the same court writes to him in a statement or in a record that he was working at that time and does not open proceedings because he did not pay his income at that time. It is said that not only did he work in black, this also means obligations to the country in which he was not settled, and now for the time being he is applying for compensation with large late payments; it is said, a threefold reward. And I believe that the coalition's decision to reject the constitutional law was unreasonable, unreasonable and also extremely dilettarian. It is interesting that the number of deleted persons increased in January, a month after the famous statement made by one of the fellow Members in Belgrade, which in fact shows that it is likely that the number and probably also for the people who will receive this status has been negotiated there. Maybe. And that's why it's such a panic because we've asked to actually have a debate on this topic. Colleague Cernač said that it was essential that, for every case of the exercise of the right to compensation, the right to redress was regulated to regulate the legal standard of the amount of compensation. For example, for postwar victims, campers, for example, or interwar exiles, interns, labor deportees, stolen children, prisoners, exiles, we've perfectly regulated this in law and prescribed compensation of between 1.25 euros per month for accidents. In the case of so-called deletions, the courts set about five hundred times the standard, as they imposed a tariff on the price of lost wages for that period. And if, say, the victims of post-war or post-war war and post-war period 2nd World War get a few euros in compensation, these people claim damages that are five hundred times higher for the same time unit. Given that the number of these people is known after the last entry, which we believe is probably not accurate, it can also be calculated how much it will cost. I think the numbers we're talking about when we're talking about a little bit more than billions of euros are actually standing. That is how much this country will use to solve the artificial problem posed by the so-called deleted. I think it is still time that we, in one way or another, in particular by adopting the law, regulate this area and standardise the area or payment of compensation. The fact is that the citizens of this country probably do not deserve to be treated in the same different ways as the coalition has now established in this case. I don't think that's appropriate and citizens don't deserve it. The basis for determining the Commission of Inquiry, when the number of deleted persons has changed substantially, is justified. From 18,000 to 25,000 without justification and justification, we have not yet experienced this in this house, indicating that it is a speculative measure of the coalition. And each such measure of the current coalition requires verification. This is not only a duty to those who have submitted this request for an act of parliamentary inquiry, but also to all Members of the National Assembly. It's a duty. And maybe just a brief leap in time. It is incorrect to report to our party's Members that we have not gone about this problem. We have proposed a constitutional law, we have also proposed an interview and offered the coalition, the current coalition and the previous opposition to solve this problem in such a way, but it has never been accepted. However, if there were any other options to solve this problem since 1992 or 1991, the current coalition would have made it easy and easy to resolve. People's problems must have been known. We knew who led the governments after 1992 until 2004, which was a 12-year period when all these people lived or wanted certain rights, and the coalition or Drnovsk's government did not give them this or listen to it. It is incorrect to refer only to the decision of the Constitutional Court, as the problem was also before the Constitutional Court. And it is interesting that in 2003 it was established and with banners presented to all Slovenia number 18.305. In January 2009, this year, this number jumped enormously, without justification, without justification, without justification of any appropriate reason. The area could also be regulated in previous periods, in previous cases. That governments were aware of this problem in 1992 also shows this letter signed by the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mirko Bandelj. This was done on September 3, 1992. And here, I will read to you what this Decision says: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the independence laws of the Republic of Slovenia in the area of internal affairs have taken the utmost account of all the rights of citizens of the republics of the former Yugoslavia arising from international conventions and interstate treaties." Article 40 of the Law on Citizenship and Article 81 of the Law on Foreigners made it possible to decide the status of such persons freely. So these persons, who are now supposed to be given a different status, freely decided on the basis of a document signed by the former Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Mirko Bandelj, on 3 September 1992. And to talk about someone moving these people somewhere at the time of their independence, with Drnovsk's government taking this decision, is the least of which is deplorable. At the very least, it is insulting to those who have implemented the self-reliance project. And some who are on this list of so-called deleted are also those who have not responded to the invitation of the former Slovenian Presidency of 27 June 1991. You know who made up the Presidency at the time - Mr Kučan and four others were the President of the Presidency; and then this letter was provided to all who would leave [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] An army of the Yugoslav People's Army to preserve all acquired status and social rights in accordance with the law. [[...]] And now for those of you who haven't used it, you're trying to solve it in a different way, which is inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the proposer? Please, Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u165	Your Honor! At the end of today's debate, I am very pleased to find that, with many legal and other facts, it has shown that this Commission is indeed justified, even in the public interest, absolutely necessary. This commission of inquiry will deal with the very core of the problem, which today burdens the whole of Slovenia. This is the incompetence and ignorance of the existing government and government coalition. There is certainly no greater problem for Slovenia at this time than the lack of expertise and ignorance of the ruling coalition, as can be seen from its effects. In just a few months, the number of unemployed has increased by half, which is a real disaster. Imagine the fates of these people and their families - because of ignorance and incompetence, as well as the greatness and arrogance of the government and the rulings, who have rejected the opposition's timely and well-prepared proposals, and now the additional proposals put forward try even in the debate, unlawfully, contrary to the Rules of Procedure. That's not even what we're talking about. In doing so, they try to conceal this ignorance and incompetence. But this will be followed by this commission and it will, I hope, to the best of its ability. Because here the situation is clear. Not only has the number of unemployed so dramatically increased, in a development where, in years, the entire last mandate, we have been several percentages above the European average and we have become the real concept, the European Union's development tiger, the ignorance and incompetence of the ruling coalition has pushed this far and today Slovenia is going back more than most in the European Union. What kind of disaster is this for the next generation?Oh, my God! We are moving away from the average of the European Union. You know, the last predictions made by the government are even minus six, now even a few percent, but it doesn't really matter. Where are those results that were before? If they had been adopted, the measures submitted by the opposition would not have happened in time. Employers, including trade unions, are united in this regard, including economic experts. In addition, this Commission is urgently needed because it will reveal the ignorance and inexplicability that has led to a mysterious increase in the number of so-called deleted: from the completely undisputed, long years of undisputed 18,305 to the suddenly 25,671, when, at the time of the reign of the same political force, the same methodology, based on the same database, was counted twice by the same persons. Against this census were even the votes of the coalition itself. They did this twice, and they certainly know why and how this could have happened. It is in the public interest to make this public. Because it's about money. It's taxpayers' money, it's a responsibility, not just to the present one, but to future generations. This coalition, the ruling coalition, has in just a few months also drastically increased public debt, indebted future generations, sentenced them to repay debts, now standing in employment and lowering wages for those who have kept their jobs. These are catastrophic results that are the result of their ignorance and incompetence. And when I talk about incompetence, you need to know how to understand it. I stress this because this is not incompetence as such. It's a lack of expertise in connection with ignorance. If you say nothing but incompetence, then people understand it as if someone does something that doesn't matter to him, but this coalition of their ignorance and incompetence is vehemently able to force and thus lead Slovenia into disaster. That's why this difference is so important. I'm warning you because one of the main televisions I've seen before, when I've looked at the Internet, is still using this expression for myself. The essence, the core of the problem is the ignorance and incompetence of the ruling coalition in combination with their scale, with which they rejected all the good proposals, all the legal arguments, they were questioned, they were ashamed, and here we come to arrogance. Pooh is one of the chief sins. And, unfortunately, because of the vastness of ignorance and incompetence of the ruling coalition, this poor Slovenia will cost so much that Slovenia will take a breath. Under these catastrophic economic conditions, when a number of unemployed people are increasing when wages are reduced, when a social gross product is reduced, when the drastic decline of all standards in that country is suddenly a ruling coalition after a Serbian minister proposes to do so, finds that the number of so-called deleted, which were once counted in power, is significantly higher by half. But in the right light, this ignorance and incompetence is only radiating if we combine it with the value madness that this coalition has pushed Slovenia into, and best shown by the example of compensations, those that we can already talk about in numbers at this point. Because you need to know, and this shows a valuable disorientation, and in terms of the values followed by NATO or the European Union, it is literally a valuable madness if we look at specific numbers. Look, the damages under our legislation, by our legal order, when it comes to someone who has suffered for a year in a concentration Nazi camp, are limited to over a thousand euros. Death is a disaster. It's a loss to humanity, which means family and individual. And life, human life is supposed to be the highest value. But when it comes to the murder, the unlawful, unlawful murder of a minor after World War II, in those incomprehensible mass crimes that don't get older, the death of that man under this legislation, which was enforced by this ruling coalition in previous mandates, is limited to EUR 800. 800 euros in compensation is for the death of a minor who has been killed out of court. When it comes to the life of the person who gave the most he could give to this country, when it comes to the life of a man who fought for Slovenia and fell in the war for Slovenia, the death of a fallen man in the war for Slovenia is limited to a maximum of EUR 3,200 in compensation. But when it comes to the man who calculated it during the same war, he gets $55,000 per hand. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a valuable disorientation or worse than you have created in all your years of rule. And we could have avoided this a long time ago, and we should have avoided being honest with ourselves, with all citizens and citizens, including the 180,000 and more who have properly regulated their status in accordance with the legislation of that time, if we had adopted a constitutional law of course. But whenever we talk about constitutional law, they go about ruling hair up. But that's a premier term. They just don't want to talk about it. Perhaps we could most sum up why they do not want to discuss constitutional law if I use the words of the Prime Minister of the Government and the SD, who said that the Constitution should be amended with a shivering hand. But look, this comes from the same party that once shook the Members' pants because of the possibility of introducing the majority electoral system, voted in full and amended the Constitution just so, overnight, contrary to the clearly expressed human will and contrary to the direct judgment, even the multiple judgment of the Constitutional Court. What difference does it make between words and actions? In the words of SD gentlemen, they change the Constitution with a shaking hand, in practice with shaking pants. This, ladies and gentlemen, is actually the state in which we live. How is it possible, as I have pointed out several times today, that the Minister of the Interior and the President of the Government himself, as well as virtually all Members and Members of the coalition, have stated that, I quote, "the issue of compensation by issuing complementary decisions has absolutely no connection at all." Those of us who have pointed out that by issuing such decisions, we create a legal basis, that the deadlines are running again, that we are allowing further damages, but we have been confronted with the Goebbels and with some worse terms, attacked by the public media by means of hate speech and even by physical attacks. This has all been happening, ladies and gentlemen, and will also be subject to legal proceedings, be free of worry. But what we have to worry about is that the Maribor court has ruled that the hands, ladies and gentlemen, with the issuance of these decisions, begin to run on a new one. And that any claim, regardless of what the outcome of this judgment will be, is still an interim judgment that the issue of compensation decisions has nothing to do with it, can only be the result of lack of expertise and ignorance. We are back to the key problem facing Slovenia today. In practice, this means that the interpretation which has been rejected is precisely by this argument that the issue of decisions with any deadlines for compensation, with any possibility of action for damages, has nothing in common. And according to political propagandists, the triumph of the Minister of the Government and the Coalition of the Transition Left of the SD, LDS and Really, after the judgment of the Court, was now lit up as a triumph of ignorance, incompetence and fraud of the SD, LDS, Really and DeSUS, since this judgment was actually issued on 3 November 2008. Vehemence and arrogance, even insults, personal insults in the exercise of incompetence and ignorance, and of course this is not an isolated case, since yesterday we witnessed when a law, a concrete amendment to the Penal Code, showed that even the government law department had warned that such a law was harmful because it introduced additional legal confusion and was unnecessary. The same parliamentary legal service. The Supreme Court has challenged the crucial argument of the coalition that it is necessary to rush because it is a legal void. That is not the case, the opinion of the Supreme Court, which clearly expressed this position, is in writing. And this incompetence and ignorance have stood for a great deal, for they have been associated with the entire colloquial, with complications similar to that of the so-called deleted story, which will be extremely expensive because it is not connected, as someone might imagine, only by issuing decisions. But at least there are four elements that will stand extremely large. The incompetence and ignorance of the ruling coalition will lead to the cost of issuing the decisions themselves, which, due to this double count and a significantly higher number of decisions, will be drastically higher. They will cause costs due to the possibility of legal proceedings which will be unlimited, as things are unfortunately taking place so far. They will give rise to compensation costs which, in view of the crystal clear interim judgment, are a practical fact. Finally, costs will also be incurred due to the possibility of exercising certain social rights back, with interest. You know what interest means for a decade or more. This means three times the basic sum, which means something that, at the moment when it is necessary to cut budgetary resources, is something that threatens people's well-being dramatically. More money for court proceedings, for so-called deleted, for lawyers in the name of free lawyers, which, of course, is paid out of our pocket by taxpayers. It means less money for schools, it means less money for children, it means less money for the health of these children, it means less money for the elderly. Where are the human rights of our citizens and citizens? Now that's what I'm asking you. Under constitutional law, we could find agreement on where the real measure is. It is not true what some of you have said that in this case those would not be entitled to anything. You know, when you were looking for consensus, it was an agreement to go to a minimum rate. If this flat rate is cheaper than the cost of one court procedure, without compensation to be understood, then a solution more favourable to taxpayers from the point of view of national welfare than to allow these proceedings. But then lawyers wouldn't get rich, because we're crystal clear about what this is all about, because the question is how much of this money is going to end up being erased, but lawyers are going to get rich, some sure, and I'm pretty sure. Besides, there's gonna be another problem. This problem is that those who seek their right in court, and this is also a constitutional right, will be faced with the fact that these courts will deal with these problems, so they may not be able to wait for their rights because either things are absolutely obsolete or they simply will not experience their rights as a servant of Jerne. This, ladies and gentlemen, has been caused by your ignorance and incompetence. And that's what we're dealing with. And who's it really about? Here I have another extremely interesting paper, which I have not quoted today, but it deserves to be requoted, because this thing actually needs to be kept in mind, because the chronic evidence of that complete value disorientation that I had already shown with compensation, at the cost of a year of suffering in the concentration camp in Dachau, Auschwitz, Rab, Bergen-Belsn, anywhere, a thousand euros in compensation. Something over. The death of a minor, criminally killed after World War II, when it came to the winer's drunkenness, eight hundred euros. The death of a man in the war for Slovenia, who fell in the war for Slovenia, is three thousand two hundred euros. The one who calculated and said publicly that he did not want to settle his status because we are Slovenians is uncultured, and that is worth fifty-five thousand euros per hand! Yeah, it's a great state of law! And the law is supposed to come out of the word justice, but it is not the courts' fault as such, it is the legislator's fault, it is the founder's fault, so you bear the responsibility of those of the coalition that you are today with the honorable exception of one Member, and of those who, by the official duty here and leading the session, have already escaped, because here the mass means nothing to you, here you cannot finally vote yours and declare that now the sun is red, sky red and grass red, which, by the way, you have already done several times, but here consider only the arguments because there is no vote. And when it comes to facts, legal arguments, precise quotations, then the ruling coalition escapes through the door. From this point of view, I must say that, once again, I very much agree with Mr Yuri's comment and it is very justified. No one in the ruling coalition of those who have already fled deserves a salary today because of their ignorance and lack of expertise that has caused harm to this country, and with their laziness, he has shown that he cares little about taxpayers and their money. It will come up with an account for so-called deleted by the Balkan system: "Pay" - "Pay". This is the principle of the ruling coalition, of all those who are there in the chairs who shout out loud in the silence of those who are not here. I said something else had to be quoted earlier. In fact, this debate should end today. This story here has a beginning in something that may have been spoken to someone other than a meeting of the Constitutional Commission. But what's interesting is -- everyone who was there when this member of the Constitutional Commission was talking about it from the kind of transition left, they were sneezing about it: representatives of Really, representatives of SD, were representatives. So they rushed away from the excitement of these words that the man was truly afraid, so that no one’s head would get stuck in sneezing. And what were those words? And those words are worth preserving for history. This was a reaction to the warning that anyone who calculated at the time of Slovenian independence could not be entitled to any compensation under any legal or human ethics under this title. Where else in the world did you see this?Oh, my God! Do you know what the reaction of this Member of the Transition Left was? And this MP reacted and said, "What I think is at issue in your argument is that you always say that these people speculated. What, then, is the issue if people think about their own benefits? Why should people not think about their benefits, why should they not decide that foreigners should be citizens instead? Is that something illegal? You seem to think someone's been thinking about their benefits, Mr Grims, that's something, I'll say, badly depraved. All people have to take care of their own interests. And you now tell them that because they thought differently than they did in the end, they can’t get anything now. I don't understand that." This, ladies and gentlemen is a quote that you can read in the megagram of the Constitutional Commission on the website. Does anyone then wonder at such a valuable disorientation that we are in such a position that suffering in a concentration camp is worth 1,000 euros, the death of a juvenile who was killed in the 800 euro crime, the death of a fallen war for Slovenia, 3,200 euros and compensation for the one who calculated with Slovenian autonomy and publicly insulted all citizens and citizens of this country, including new citizens, and that one is worth 55,000 euros. Once again, when this gentleman said this, all of the types of transition left that were with him were so quick to nod that it was right to watch them, I must say, from a medical point of view, interesting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u166	Watch your mouth, Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u167	I'm careful because I used the term "medical."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u168	Mind your words, Mr Grimes, if I don't take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u169	It's not a problem, because I understand that in the facts that have been presented here today, it would be best to see that this debate would not be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u170	Mr Grims, you can argue with colleagues who are here, and also with those who are not, but be careful not to say individual or group insults to groups or individuals. You've been doing this systematically for a while. And now I warn you - you have another 2 minutes 24 seconds - that in these two minutes and a half you don't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u171	Mr President, to conclude, I will only say that when it comes to ignorance and inexplicability, the reflection of this ignorance and incompetence is also reflected if the meetings are held in conflict with the Rules of Procedure or if the debate is limited in contradiction with the Rules of Procedure. One such case, when it comes not to these topics, but to those of key importance when it comes to the development of Slovenia, will be in a few days' time when we will discuss in the general debate on the proposals for measures, draft laws well prepared by the opposition to mitigate the effects of the current economic crisis. You, in the College, took it unlawfully against the Rules of Procedure to limit that. Just as you are always trying to limit every debate, which exposes what is really the key problem of Slovenia, the key problem which I hope this Commission will nevertheless present to the public in the full dimension, because there is no problem in Slovenia, with all the responsibility I claim, is no greater than this problem, and if it is reflected in the drastic increase in the number of so-called deletions from 18.305 to 25.671, and if it is reflected in the fact that the whole Government and coalition claim that the issuance of decisions has nothing to do with the deadlines, with the possibility of damages, with nothing, and then they are lied to even the court by its ruling, which I have quoted several times today, because it states that this decision triggers exactly the new course of all age and provides the basis for the submission of additional lawsuits. In any form, therefore, this biggest problem for Slovenia shows a single name: the ignorance and incompetence of the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u172	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. He does. I request an application for further discussion. Five panellists signed up, each with five minutes to discuss. Please, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u173	Thank you. At the end of the day, I would just like to draw attention to this new element, which was presented today and which puts things in the right light. The scope and public interest of the investigation that we are pursuing with this Commission of Inquiry. This is an interim judgment on behalf of the people of 3 November 2008, in which the court ruled in its sentence that a legal basis had been given, i.e. the basis of the applicant’s application, one of the so-called deleted, against the Republic of Slovenia for compensation. That's in the saying. In explanation, however, the court has yet to add precisely to these matters. It states that the Court has specifically assessed the elements of the State's compensation liability and thus the occurrence of injury. The damage was caused by the exercise of the powers of the State authority and the unlawful conduct of the body which carried out the activity. And, most importantly, according to the Court's assessment, the unlawful conduct of the defendant, i.e. the State, has caused damage, whose heights have not yet been determined, and will be judged by the Court below. This is crucial because it lies about everything that has been said about the so-called deleted and their number in the past by the ruling coalition. More. The key where it has always become entangled as to when the limitation deadlines begin to run, followed by everything: the possibility of a complaint, the possibility of enforcement of compensation, everything related to the conduct of the State itself and, of course, all the procedures that can be initiated by one of the so-called deleted after the decision has been obtained, on the basis of that cumbersome decision of the Constitutional Court. In fact, even at the time of the interpretation, as I said to the Minister, for Mr President of the Government, I can also list the key people of the coalition from a number of Members and Members, but probably already the President of the Government and the Minister are sufficient, they argued at the time of the interpretation that the issuance of these provisional decisions, i.e. also the indirect number of so-called deleted, had nothing to do with compensation at all. It's a citation. And when we warned that it still has a connection, because it can create a new legal fact, and this new legal fact triggers the flow of deadlines, we predicted for five years that this is a key problem. For five years we were not only taught that we had no idea, but we were also resentful because we warned. And we also offered solutions, specifically a constitutional law that could avoid this trap. And then the court decided that the time limit for the expiry of the claims of so-called deleted persons would begin to run from the date on which the decision on permanent stay was issued. Since the Court considers that it is only by this means that the situation to which the dispute has been raised by its decision has ended. This is also legally logical. There are no specific new elements here that would significantly deviate from similar assessments in the past. But why did the ruling coalition have to claim for five years that there would be no new claims, no new claims that these decisions would never be able to constitute any basis for any further action that was long overdue? Do you know how many times this term has been used? That, above all, what is most controversial for me, legally has nothing to do with it. The court found out he had a connection. It doesn't matter what the end of this story is. Even in this case, no concrete compensation has been made, judgment, compensation is not yet legally binding. But the fact is, it's got something to do with it. And to warn in heaven of the inexplicableness and ignorance which, when it comes to running the country, can have extremely severe consequences, devastating consequences for the well-being of people, for the country as a whole, for development and for future generations. It's the current government. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u175	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues of the opposition! I stayed in this hall because I wanted to hear the whole discussion. I'm interested in the subject, of course. But I also very much understand the other colleagues who left the hall, because I have noticed that in your explanations you repeat yourself for several hours. Repeat and repeat. So from an interesting debate you have managed to make an extremely interesting debate, and it has actually been a pain in the ass to stay until the end. But it was some commitment I made at the beginning to listen over and over again to the same thing. No, no, no. But something was interesting. Your contradictions. Mr Grimes, you've been talking about 50,000 euros in compensation and you've compared this sum to those low sums that go to the victims of this or that violence. Now in the end, you said, "It's not yet legal, because there's no payoff yet, but it only proves some trend and that." You know what, it's speculation. It's speculation with nonexistent facts. The fact is that, for the first time, the decision is illegal, secondly, there are no 50,000 euros paid. Let us say this to the public that there is no bankruptcy, no catastrophe to our financial system under this heading. And that is why, Mr Petan, I have previously linked myself to the disastrous forecasts of the Spanish compromise. Let us now leave the details and background of that compromise. I mean, I allow myself to say that I know him much better than you do, because at the time, I was involved in the matter as a diplomat. And I know exactly what we really paid for - nothing, nothing at all. We have not changed one internationally valid act, one international treaty, we have not changed anything. We have changed the Constitution, which we should change to join the European Union anyway, like all the members of the candidate. If we look at this cataclysm that is characteristic of your client when you are in opposition, clearly when you had the government, there were no negative predictions. When you attribute alleged injustices to others, you are very catastrophic. And this is where you trap yourself, because then you can't prove it. You didn't prove it today either. In the end, you have demented everything you say for hours and hours. And that's why it was interesting to stay all the way here and listen to you. I'm not sorry I'm still here to tell you. Amnesty International, as I said, is a respected organisation, I pay regular membership fees every month and would advise everyone to join Amnesty International. But she's not the only organization that's warned about these injustices. You know that there were representatives of the Council of Europe, and they also spoke about this in the UN Human Rights Commission and so on. Many factors that have been very accurate about the matter have found that it is something that needs to be resolved in a legal and constitutional way. Today another continuous misinformation was sold - that these people were informed that they could obtain citizenship and so on. You know, it's not about citizenship, it's about taking away their basic right to stay. They have lost the status of residents in Slovenia and thus the rights that go to foreigners. They weren't even foreigners, they were gone all of a sudden, they were gone, they were tolerated, because we didn't want to drive them out of this country, of course, no, it would be a big scandal. But they were nonexistent foreigners and no foreigners, no status. That was the key problem. And it's not true that everyone was informed. My mother wasn't informed. I went to ask around and arranged papers for her. If not, I would [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] became deleted. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u176	There's no replica. Thank you very much. The word has a Black Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u177	Your Honor! With regard to this dilemma - the power, the power of the judiciary and the harmful consequences that come from it and will arise - let me illustrate with one statement by the President of the General Assembly, Mr Gantar, who gave it when he was the Minister of Environment and Space when he said, "As Minister, I am not only responsible for the services, but also for the abandonment. Leaving what I have to do as a minister to prevent such or other harmful consequences." And this is about something like that. The Minister of the Interior and the Government are responsible in accordance with the oath they made in the National Assembly, not only for what they do, but also for what they do not do, and they would be obliged to do so. And here's the question. There is no reason to avoid harmful consequences. Even if this moment has not yet come. So much for that. The second issue that has been raised today with regard to the transfer from one to the other register. That's when the new state was created. The new state was created and it is perfectly normal that those who have been in a relatively long period of this status, in accordance with this new legislation of this country, have not settled, even though they knew they had to arrange it, have been transferred from one register to another register. This time in the register of strangers. And this matter was carried out in accordance with the Constitutional Charter, on the basis of the legislation in force, so that people were informed through the means of public information and also individually. Anyone who wanted to get their status back on track. Some, unfortunately, did not want to settle it because they fled to other republics or countries together with their partners or in any other way, or because they did not want to accept the citizenship of the new country, because they thought it was not such a serious matter and that this country would never be born in full, so why risk something that was not necessarily necessary. There have also been cases at the border of this one, which were subsequently regulated. In any case, as has happened with us when we have a new country, it is perfectly normal that there will also be cases which cannot be fully and fully covered by any formal provision and with no yet 100 per cent activity. And all these cases were settled and settled. And also those on whom decisions are now being made and those issued by the former Minister of Bohinc are cases that were subsequently settled in a relatively short period of time. And in the case of a specific judgment, it is the case of a lady who had six months' status after 26. 2. 1992 done. And yet it is entitled to compensation because the country itself found that it had done something wrong in April 2004. And that's what we're talking about. I think it's a big problem, and it's a mistake to solve it the way it's solved. Unfortunately, however, you do not want to settle this problem in such a way that it will be settled once and for all, as I said earlier, that any cases that have been wrongly committed would be rectified, prevented from speculation, and once and for all, this issue will be closed. It won't close. I'm sorry we won't, because we're repeating ourselves. I looked here at the magnetogram when the then Minister Bohinc was intertwined, and found that the current Minister is not entirely original because she found out what he found in his response to the interpretation on 30 March 2004 in the National Assembly, former Minister Bohinc, when he said, "Interpellation to the Minister because he respects the constitutional order is unprecedented in European democratic tradition," and so on. Here, see, she wasn't the first minister to be intertwined. There was someone before her who respected the constitutional order. That's not what this is about. We all respect the constitutional order, all of us, but we must respect it in such a way that we respect it fully. And if the constitutional order says that a decision can be made on the basis of law, it is necessary to do so. It is not permissible to act in contravention of the Constitution and the constitutional order. And [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] an example of mistreatment took place a few days ago in the National Assembly, when you prevented a referendum established by the Constitution in the same way as that commission of inquiry. A third of the Members demanded that. The referendum should be the same as [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u179	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! This deleted problem has been dragging for 10 years. By 1998, we weren't talking about deleted, but we were only talking about records. However, in 1998 the concept of deleted by Helsinki monitoring was created. I think it's, is it a respected institution, a person of one? I don't know. But that word Helsinki reminds me of another lie from last year. I don't know. I'm just looking at the ones that are here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u180	I'm asking for peace in the hall! [[...]] The messenger has the freedom to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u181	I apologize to my colleagues if I look at them. It's not important to think of them, but I like to look at the people I'm contacting. These Helsinki girls are strangely connected. That's when this Helsinki monitor somehow came up with the idea of being erased. It wasn't there before. Interesting. Because they haven't been deleted either. That is why this concept could not have been formed earlier. The name's made up. Let me confirm again. In 1990 the government informed the congregations that had to continue to inform all those concerned. "We inform you that your parents have so far not agreed on your nationality, although by law you would be obliged to do so until then and then, and the state will automatically enroll you in citizenship. However, if you do not agree with the registration of this nationality, within fourteen days of receipt of this notice, please report in person and say you do not want to." Now I ask you, how is it not possible that someone did not come into this list? The state said, "we'll sign you in if you don't want to come." It's a certain category. And now I'm going to answer you, Mr. Yuri, how did it happen that maybe your mother didn't get it? That's possible. Because this was the case that I was saving in the congregation there. A citizen who was about my age but was born in one of the other republics of the then Yugoslavia. She was convinced that she was so old that I would automatically become a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. She didn't come to her senses. When she came to the Home Office, they told her. Yeah, now what? Then she came to me, too, and she said that. It's all settled very quickly. But these were individual cases. In Slovenija, there were twenty-two thousand people living in the municipality, which means 100 people. It happened, but it was solved, it wasn't any problem, it wasn't erased. In the SDS we began to warn that playing with so-called deleted was dangerous, we were categorized, we were smiling, but that was the case. Today, when we talk about compensations that are not yet legal, but the point is that the way it is going is no longer a dilemma. When we started warning us about the damages, you laughed at us again, if we were to, I don't know, start demagogies and everything. At the time of interpolation, recently, it was said that the alternative decisions had nothing to do with compensation. That's not true. Today, it has proved to be the basis for compensation. This is how we say today that this thing is catastrophic for the Slovenian state, and you laugh at us. I'm just hoping, and I really wish I was wrong here. But if that happens, then we're all in the same boat. Okay, the question is, maybe one little less, the other a little bit more. Because those we warn will probably get more hurt. This is what Comrade Grims had previously warned how with compensation for certain categories, those who died violent deaths received eight hundred euros or were worth eight hundred euros, and those so-called erased some tens of thousands of euros. I hope and I wish I was wrong here. This illustrates the case of these judgments from Ptuj and Maribor, which show exactly where they will go. So don't take our warnings lightly. It is necessary to agree on this matter to the end and not take it with your left hand with arrogance, not to say anything else. If we talk about billions of dollars worth of compensation, this will no longer be a joke for Slovenia [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And it will come to that, if we don't do something about it. [[...]] That's why we have to do it together, and this debate we're having is that we do something together not to look from left to right, but to do it together for Slovenia. [[...]] [[Exclusion of the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please, Mr Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u183	Thank you, Mr. President. See, if we both go to the Rules of Procedure now, we can make sure that, as long as the debate is ongoing, everyone has the right to a replica according to the Rules of Procedure, even if that additional time has passed. From this point of view, I can only regret your actions and ask questions about the freedom of Members. However, if you have not already given me the floor, at least you could warn your fellow Member of the importance of case-by-case judgments in the legal order. Especially when it comes to a principled one [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u185	Which is what I was really talking about when I warned [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u186	This is a violation of the procedural procedure. [[...]] I took your word for violating the procedural question. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Please. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Look, we're still in the debate phase, Mr President of the National Assembly. Although we have taken advantage of the time set for the debate. Since the time for discussion has remained, you have shared the time for discussion again. And from this additional time-sharing, all Members' rights, including the right to a replica, are derived through the Rules of Procedure. And in fact, in this process, you violated the right of Comrade Grimes and you did not give him to replicate the incorrect or incorrect statements of his fellow Member in a timely manner. In this case, it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure by the President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u188	The right to a replica shall be given to each Member when there is a common time of discussion for the Group of Members. This time of discussion has come to an end. Each of the Members who wanted to have their own five minutes in this case. Therefore, there has never been a replica, not in this mandate, nor in the previous time-sharing mandate, nor will it be today. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Government may announce time to all items of the agenda of the State Assembly even when it is not a candidate. And I must say, I'm not impressed, I'm not satisfied, because the government has not announced at this very important point in its time. At the same time, the Minister has found a lot of time to comment on the debates of MEPs in the National Assembly in the media. It is said that the government does not want to face members of the National Assembly, to communicate and to hold a proper debate, but to do so indirectly through the media. I must say, this approach makes me very sad. Another thing about today's agenda. I must say, at the previous point, the government had an hour and a half to discuss. This was the Prime Minister of the Government, who is also the President of the Energy Section, is said to be an area that we have dealt with earlier. And despite the fact that, as I found out later, he was here all the time among the MPs of the National Assembly, he never once applied to the debate to answer the Members' statements, to replicate or anything. What my colleague Grimes was saying about expertise, it's hard to say. There is no courage to communicate with members of the National Assembly. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say what is the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry. The aim is to determine by whose order and by what methodology the figures so-called deleted were made in 2003 and 2009 and why there were substantial differences in the number of persons. Secondly, to determine whether the result of the figures so-called deleted was officially published in 2003 was tailored to the political needs of the then authorities or whether the result of the figures so-called deleted in 2009 was formally published or whether, depending on the political interests of the public function holders, both results were falsified. Thirdly, to determine the liability of the holders of public functions for the grave misappropriation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the public with regard to the number of so-called deleted and the amount directly linked to the sum of the costs of issuing decisions, the potential costs of court and the costs of compensation to the so-called deleted and the apparent threat to the public finances system. Fourthly, to find out what interests and clienteleistic connections are behind the current conduct of public function holders responsible for issuing decisions to so-called deleted in a way that would further significantly burden the work of the courts and increase judicial backlogs and enable lawyers to be rich at the expense of taxpayers while creating obvious inequalities before the law. Fifth. Identify the degree of involvement of individual public function holders with a political impact on the selection of the calculation methodology so-called deleted and the political impact on the choice of the method of implementation of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision number U-I-246/02-28. And six times. Identify the level of responsibility of public officials with the apparent abuse of the Ministry for political purposes between the beginning of 2003 and autumn 2004 and the period from 22 November 2008. This is the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry. Now I am also a little hurt, Mr President of the National Assembly, to have you smile at me when I read the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u190	A few minutes later, I'll read that too. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u191	The purpose of the parliamentary inquiry. This is our right, the duty of Members, given that no one has spoken about this purpose today. Fellow Members spoke of Mercator, of Luka Koper, not of Intereuropa, but of the purpose of the parliamentary investigation, so I considered it necessary, as a duty to repeat what we were actually deciding and what the purpose was. I also think that the presidents who chaired today's meeting of the National Assembly should limit all the omissions of Members who have talked about everything possible to the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry, not just what we want to achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-15-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u192	Thank you very much. I smiled because I'm going to read the same thing in the order of course, a second later myself. I'm closing the debate. Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Chamber of State on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly does not vote on Parliamentary Investigation and therefore I note that the Parliamentary Chamber ordered a parliamentary inquiry in November to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions who were responsible for the preparation and execution of the figures so-called deleted in 2003 and 2009, with the suspicion that the findings were officially published were adjusted to the political needs of certain holders of public functions, the determination of the political responsibility of the holders of public functions due to the alleged inadequate enforcement of the 8th paragraph of the Decision of the Constitutional Court of Justice U-I-246/02, the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, number 135/3, during the internal period 2003 to October 2004 and in the period of the period of 22 November 2008 due to the suspicion of the holders of public powers with the political influence to the selection of the number of the so-called and political powers of the Court of Slovenia, number 135/2002, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice in the Court of Justice in the period 2003 to the Court of Justice in the period 2003 to the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice in the Court of Justice in the Court of Justice in the year 2003 to the year 2003 to the Court of the Court of Justice in the period of Justice in the year 2003 to the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice in the Court in the Court in the Court of Justice in the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice, the Court of the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court in the Court of 23 the Court of June 2008. The purpose of the parliamentary inquiry is as follows. Firstly, to determine by whose order and by what methodology the figures so-called deleted were made in 2003 and 2009 and why there were significant differences in the number of persons. Secondly, to determine whether the result of the figures so-called deleted was officially published in 2003 was tailored to the political needs of the then authorities or whether the result of the figures so-called deleted in 2009 was formally published or whether both outcomes were dependent on the political interests of the public function holders on each occasion. Thirdly, to determine the liability of the holders of public functions for the grave misappropriation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the public with regard to the number of so-called deleted and the amount directly linked to the sum of the costs of issuing decisions, the potential costs of court and the costs of compensation to the so-called deleted and the obvious threat to the public finances system. Fourthly, to determine what interests and clienteleistic connections are behind the current conduct of public function holders who are allegedly linked to certain legal offices due to the suspicion that the public finance system is being compromised in connection with the alleged inadequate execution of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court. U-I 246/2-28, this is the decision of ZIODLUS 246/02, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No. 135/3, and are responsible for issuing decisions to so-called deleted in a way that will further substantially alter the work of the courts and increase judicial backlogs and enable lawyers to be rich at the expense of taxpayers, while creating obvious inequalities before the law. Fifthly, to determine the degree of involvement of individual public function holders with a political impact on the selection of the methodology for the calculation of so-called deleted and the political impact on the choice of the method of implementation of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision number U-I 246/2-28, that is ZIODLUS 246/02 Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 135/3. Sixthly, determine the level of responsibility of public officials for the apparent abuse of the Ministry for political purposes between the beginning of 2003 and autumn 2004 and the period from 22 November 2008. The scope of the parliamentary investigation is to identify the method of carrying out the figures so-called deleted in 2003 and 2009 and why there have been significant differences in the number of cases. Secondly, whether the official publication of the outcome of the figures so-called deleted in 2003 was tailored to the political needs of the then authorities, or whether the political current authorities had formally published the outcome of the figures so-called deleted in 2009 or whether they depended on the political interests of the public function holders on a case-by-case basis. Thirdly, the identification of the liability of public function holders due to the grave misappropriation of the public in relation to the number of so-called deleted and the number directly linked to the sum of the costs of issuing decisions, the potential costs of the court and the costs of compensation to the so-called deleted and the apparent threat to the public finances system. Fourthly, the identification of interests and the suspicion of customeristic links, which are behind the current conduct of public function holders who are allegedly connected to certain legal offices due to the suspicion that the public financial system is being compromised with regard to the alleged inadequate exclusion of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision, number U-I 246/02-28. This is the decision of ZIODLUS246/02, Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, No 135/3, and they are responsible for issuing decisions so-called deleted in a way that will further significantly burden the work of the courts and increase judicial backlogs and enable lawyers to be enriched at the expense of taxpayers while clearly creating inequalities before the law. Fifthly, to determine the degree of involvement of individual public function holders with a political impact on the selection of the calculation methodology so-called deleted and the political impact on the choice of the method of implementation of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision number U-I246/02-28. This is decision ZIODLUS246/02, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, 135/3. Sixthly, the determination of the level of responsibility of public function holders for the apparent abuse of the Ministry for political purposes between the beginning of 2003 and autumn 2004 and the period from 22 November 2008. The Parliamentary Commission is hereby designated. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and to refer it to the Council of State for a decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the fifth session of the National Assembly. Thank you very much and very much. Good night!
