ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Please take your seats. We begin with the continuation of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Victory by Jelinčič Nobleni, Joško Godec, Roberto Battelli, Janja Klasinc and Janez Ribič. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the continuation of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. Under this item, Mr Borut Pahor, Prime Minister of the Government, will answer four questions from members of the opposition and from the ruling coalition. The first question will be posed by the mag. Andrej Vizjak, Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings from the Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers! As we monitor developments in the economy and in the financial sector, we are faced with increasingly sad, poor statistics, economic growth, the army of the unemployed - now more than 82 000. Then very poor data on the drastic decline in industrial production, exports and investment activities of the Slovenian economy are worrying. Those of us who get to know this statistics a little bit more, we are very sad, and in some ways it gives us some kind of pro-activity, I want to help, we want to solve the situation. But when there are concrete cases, when we talk about concrete factories, about concrete people, about concrete human destinys, about families, and things are also broader, obviously, dramatic, worrying and demanding quick, effective action. That is why both the opposition and the Slovenian economy, and not least Slovenia and Slovenia, expect the government to act effectively, proactively, quickly and in a coordinated manner, the whole government when these problems arise. The government has quite a few tools available to help businesses in difficulty to help those companies that have not yet gone into trouble and can emerge from the problems with some development programmes can also help those who have not somehow been overcome by the crisis and seen in the crisis as an opportunity to jump away for some faster development policy. For all of these, the Government must, of course, have appropriate measures and must respond. Unfortunately, we see this, not only in the opposition, but also in the public eye, as all tests, public analyses show that the public is actually facing an inefficient and inactive government in this area, but show that the government is dealing very, very unevenly with these problems. The Minister of Economy is even running for office, and the crisis minister is running for office in the European Parliament. The Minister's statements are very inconsistent. Moreover, we have even problems and crises in the coalition. So, this isn't a good way to solve the accumulated problems. And I ask you, Mr. President of the Government: [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] What will you do in particular to reduce these problems, bankruptcy problems, forgiveness problems, problems facing the Slovenian economy in the future? [[...]] So we're gonna do what we can without serious damage. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr Borut Pahor President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u4	Mr. President. First of all, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to this high assembly for understanding my absence yesterday and for being able to answer your questions today. Mr Member, I am coming from a meeting of the crisis group of ministers and will return there immediately after the end of my duties in this high house. The crisis group of ministers is preparing a final third package of measures. I do not think that it is necessary for the National Assembly to tell again what the Government has achieved by adopting the first and second package of measures and the national budget rebalancing. Slovenia is not an isolated island in a global recession. We ourselves cannot defeat the crisis. My assessment is that, as far as possible in these four months, the Government has done everything necessary to deal effectively with the crisis. Of course, neither we nor our people can be satisfied with the circumstances in which we live. The government responds proactively, looking for all the ways that are needed to deal successfully with this crisis and to successfully overcome it together with the developed world. I want to assure you that the government is acting as a team. I would like to remove any doubts in this high choir that the Government is also in no trouble because of any differences in terms of what is right and what is wrong - these differences are, after all, also in this high house. On the contrary! These doubts are needed to make it easier and better to decide what are the right decisions. The government is therefore trying to continue its pro-active policy with the third package of measures, Mr Member. We have decided that this third package - this has as many as 17 measures of a practical nature and a series of structural reforms - should be aligned with the social partners. I think this is the right thing to do, and this will help bring the necessary reforms into line with consensus or public understanding. In short, I think that Slovenia is one of those countries that are successfully facing the consequences of the financial and economic crisis; now it is also a social crisis. I think that, within the framework of its powers, the Government has done as much as it can to ensure that Slovenia faces these consequences as little pain as possible. We understand that the burden of this crisis cannot be borne by those who are not responsible for this crisis. We want the burdens of this crisis to be shared fairly, given the social situation and the power of the people. I would like to say that this is why we are trying to do everything, including with a third set of measures, that people who are at work and those who may be in this position will get all the help of the state to get through this situation as easily as possible. You have mentioned families who are victims of this crisis; the Government is aware of these situations and is also aware of the appropriate action. As we say, we will now soon have three packages of measures, probably two budget rebalancings. As a matter of fact, I'm coming and going to a crisis meeting of ministers. The government works effectively, works uniformly, there are, as here, some differences in what is right and what is wrong. This is perfectly normal in these situations, it is only necessary to weigh the arguments and decide on the right ways.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u6	Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, numerous bankruptcys, the meat industry Primorska, Pomurke, Beti Metlika, Elkroja, Swan, LTH, the leather industries Vrhnika, Svilanita, Siemens Technology Systems, Glass New, Carrere Optil, Novolesa and so on, could still list, including Swan, the obvious result of this efficiency, pro-activity and speed, i.e. these in some way rapid action. Consider an eclectic example of how the government could have done something, perhaps even with one phone call, this was the case of Pomurka. In the case of Pomurka, there was economic damage due to the power failure. And because you're so busy on the phones, why hasn't someone called the state distribution company to prevent this damage caused by the melting of these meat stocks? We were faced with television recordings that remind us of war situations. Meat was distributed to people, economic damage was caused by the uncoordinated operation of companies owned by the majority state, as an example, by the electricity distribution company and also by the Bank. In fact, the Bank was not aware of the situation at all, as an important creditor who had a flag right on the movables, acting irresponsibly. The largest individual owner of Abanka is Triglav, which is owned by the state and by others. So if, somewhere, we would need coordinated action by ministers, governments, and we could prevent economic damage, and perhaps with some help we could also resolve this system, which I think is perspective, but has been experienced because of the demonstrated uncoordinated and inactive functioning of the Government of pogroms. So, this, Mr President of the Government, is the actions that we would like, not a series of promises, some vague measures that are in the future and that are not here.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u8	Let me be very frank with you, Mr Member. Like other countries, ours has not been prepared for this global recession. This government has assumed responsibility for the leadership of this country at a time when the conjucture has shifted to this recession. And when I talked about the time of economic uncertainty, there was a lot of people in this room who said that I was overreacting. The economic crisis is here, the consequences with it and the Slovenian government with a pro-active policy of action, in accordance with the circumstances in which we are, in particular, a Member of Parliament. As soon as he found out about this problem, the Minister of Agriculture pointed out the possible consequences at the government meeting. Thus, because of the threatening danger of economic damage, electricity has been reactivated several times, so there was no damage to what you are talking about. We have also been actively involved in discussions with employees on how to resolve their situation. The economic damage could also have been caused by the power cut in Pomurka, but the electricity supplier who terminated the supply due to unpaid obligations was not a state-owned company but was a private company of GEN from Krske. The closure was a result of the failure to pay the network and the outstanding agreements on the repayment of outstanding liabilities. Both in Pomurka and in Mipo have been warned in accordance with legislation for a week in advance to prepare technology so that there will be no economic damage. Upnik Pomurka, this is the Abanki you mentioned, and also to Pomurka, Elektro Maribor offered to avoid any economic damage the lease of the aggregate of the appropriate capacity, but did not decide on this offer. Nevertheless, in the case of Pomurka, the government actively participated in solving the complication by means of an electric company as a bank that seized meat with a notary record, as you know. The government also assumes responsibility for workers who, despite their long-standing loyalty to companies today, have lost their jobs. Social work and employment centres are closely linked in cases where bankruptcy or dismissal of workers are forecasted in certain areas of the country, even when actual job losses occur, the Government, Mr Member, take action. In particular, through the lever of emergency social assistance, it immediately helped 30 of the most affected families affected by the bankruptcy of Mipa. Yesterday, the company was also visited by the Minister of Labour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Procedurally, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Of course, I would like this High Council to decide on the proposal to have a broader discussion on this response in accordance with the rules of procedure, which is why. Because I believe that the government has actually acted too late in this case, after things have happened and when the disaster was on the horizon. And it's not true that there's no economic damage! As a result of the unsold quantities of alienated meat, which is likely to have ended, I do not know where, in some destruction, the economic damage was estimated at about half a million euros. Of course, I would like to point out very clearly that several state-owned companies have been involved in solving this, including the company that he mentioned when it supplies electricity, is state-owned. That's not true, it's a private company. Someone could have been receiving this call and prevented the outbreak of disconnection and, as a result, of course, damage. So also to visit such a company, the minister responsible for social affairs is, of course, what we always read to this government is that it is too late. It is necessary to respond at the outset, then to prevent the problem. From the media, it was even read that about 12 million Euros were available to the company to cope with this crisis, and that the Bank, as the main creditor, did not know anything about it - again a state-owned enterprise. I want to say: unconnected, uncoordinated action has brought this story, this calvary as far as it is. We always hear that these are economic operators operating in accordance with some economic corporate principles and that the Government can only, I don't know, monitor here. This would, in my opinion, be the necessary heart of debate to determine what impact, what leverage, what instruments the Government as a majority-owned operator has, as the one responsible for this effective exercise, on the real sector of which it owns. Here there must be concrete connections and effective management; here we must not excuse ourselves that we wanted to do the same, but in the end it was a problem. Any company that gets in trouble will have to work individually. I welcomed the measure in the balance sheet, where a lot of resources are provided to help rescue businesses in difficulty. I don't know a single case to deal with the government's problem-solving case so far! All of this, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to clarify a little in-depth in this debate as to the response of the President of the Government, which I propose.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u11	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Andrej Visiak, that the National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the government's response to his question of the delegation, will decide today, in the framework of the votes. Mr Srečko Friend, Slovenian National Party, will put a question to the Prime Minister of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable President of the Government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. At a time of crisis, rising poverty in the Republic of Slovenia and at a time when over 250,000 poor people live on the edge of poverty in Slovenia, and at a time when young people, full of knowledge, should immediately get a job, we know that because of the stupid decisions that will be taken later than before in the National Assembly, they will not get it as quickly as we did, and at a time when we are experiencing such crises, that even those working full-time do not have enough resources to survive, so at that time some questions are asking a very clear answer from you, respected Prime Minister of the Government. I therefore ask you: Are you sure that the conclusions you have written in the information on the classification of the decisions on austerity measures 6 are clear? Four, are you sure? Are they really high-priority? Before I touch what is very important, I would like to read to you what you wrote in these conclusions. So, it's classified material, you didn't post it online. And the government says that it has adopted amendments to the wage regulation and that it will reduce the salaries of directors in the public sector by 1%, directors and officials in public institutions - and here we are - by 4%. You also say that in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia you will take measures to reduce student work by 50%. You think that's right? Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! If I look at who will pay for these accounts of recession, poverty and general crisis, then I can sum up the words of Mr Hribar Milic, who says it will be work. His words say that workers - 10% tighten their belts. I'm asking you, are your priorities right when you're handing out the million-dollar prizes? And last but not least: Are your priorities true when you give support to those who were not on the side of the Slovenes and the Slovenians when they were at the time of the attack and aggression, wars, fled or were on the other side? Today, legal judgments are coming. Legal judgments on behalf of the people and these people will be received, according to your Minister, who defended and successfully defended her position, over a billion euros from the state budget. So at this time you have priorities that are, of course, somewhat conflicted and I believe you are a good conductor, but at the same time, I can also say that you are playing to conduct a very uncoordinated orchestra. You're not united in the government, you have different views. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] I ask you, Mr President, are you offering a good enough vision for a solution and a way out of the crisis? I would like a clear answer, and Slovenia and Slovenia would also like a clear answer to this question. Are they yours? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u14	The vision of the Slovenian government is to drive our country through the crisis by getting out of it more solidarity and more competitive than we have entered it. This is a vision of the Slovenian government, which sets out all the practical measures necessary to achieve this great objective. We know that the Government itself is not up to the extent and volume of problems that we and the whole modern world face. That is why we have included the social partners in the action, so we have decided to engage in a development dialogue. Surely, trust between the coalition and the opposition will need to be reconsidered in the future regarding cooperation in response to the economic crisis. From day one - you need to know that the first meeting called a crisis group - solves the problems we face and solves them successfully. Not without mistakes, not without the need to take new steps, but in the right direction, international experts also assess. As for your warning, Commissioner, I must repeat the starting point that is always before my eyes and the eyes of the entire ministerial assembly. It is that the burden of the crisis must be shared fairly. And secondly, we need to create conditions to create more and better, while we are careful about how to distribute what is created more fairly. Because only if we have a development-oriented policy can we count on not only keeping jobs, but also opening them up again, that they will be competitive jobs and that we will aim at one of the most important ambitions, this is high employment in Slovenia. We are now facing the problem of employment, unemployment, and the Slovenian Government is solving this in an appropriate way and in dialogue with the social partners. Let me assure you that the Slovenian Government, despite the fact that it also has different opinions on what would be appropriate at the moment, is a good team, a motivated team, a dedicated team; that the Slovenian government is also trying to set an example of economic and political elites in order to try, as I said, the burden of crisis fairly and correctly to share. And I don't think there's any need for us to look at the roadway with some bad conscience; it wasn't without any mistakes, it wasn't without the need to maybe do any more of them, but if I look at politics in these four months, it was very active, and I think it did, if I look at the comparable countries, good results.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Friend? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u16	I'm not entirely satisfied with what Mr. Prime Minister has told me. Dear Mr. Borut Pahor, we're both coming from Primorska. In this part, your party has received almost all MPs on the National Assembly bench, except for one, this is Mr Krapež, who failed to get through this Shivanka's ear, but we do have the greatest unemployment in the area. The directors of the state-owned companies set up by this government have five times your salary, a respected prime minister. Are you going to relieve the directors with these salaries? Or at least you'll tell Mr. Cwickle that he should also reduce his salary to State Secretarys because he's reduced them by 0%. And last but not least, Prime Minister, I ask you: Are these measures really sufficient? First, second, third package of austerity measures. As a matter of fact, the government's unanimity. I'd like concrete results. You will not justly divide this burden into all citizens and citizens. Unfortunately, we all find this in this country, except for you -- maybe you don't see it. But I'll tell you again. As long as directors receive such salaries, directors of public institutions, directors of those companies whose majority ownership is in the country; then as long as you tolerate such filth, someone will receive one million euros for their prize and you cannot invite him to return this reward; as long as you allow companies with no results, 13th salary, 14th salary and directors who also have a payment card to buy clothes, work cars and everything else, until then the workers will not listen to you and will not believe you. You invite the students to obey, the workers to patience, but you can't make peace. Let's tighten the belt, everybody. Let's make the order. And, Prime Minister, if there's any honesty in this country, then we'll go where the problem is the biggest. Solve the problem by size. The first are directors - to return their wages or to adjust their wages to your level. That's my question, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u18	And my answer, Mr Member, is very clear from the first day of my term. When I made a call to make a decision about the team, there was a laugh in this room. I hope that's not when I tell you that my ministerial assembly has an 8% lower salary. I hope that the National Assembly supports the decision taken by the Government through its decisions on limiting awards in state-owned enterprises. Now we've decided to file a 90% tax bill. So I would ask you to understand the many measures that this government is taking in order for political and economic elites to bear much of the burden on the situation we are in. From day one, my message was clear: I am ready to give up on myself, I expect this from the ministerial assembly I am leading. Part of these measures have also been taken here by the National Assembly. We have imposed economic elites through the government's conclusions, and now, through the law, we have ordered them to take over part of this burden. The Slovenian government has not paid a million awards to Mr Kramer, but it will do everything to get this million back - one way or another. And with the other actions we will achieve that this society will prevail in the view that those who have more in this situation must bear a greater burden on the crisis than those who have less if we are to maintain social cohesion, Mr Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u20	You know what makes it possible for me to make a business provision of Article 246, so I'm just going to give an explanation so that I don't waste my time. Dear Prime Minister! You've really reduced your wages to ministers, but you've already raised their wages to the highest possible level. You forgot to say that. If I could continue, I would say why such a discussion in the National Assembly, why so much anger on my part to the government. The National Assembly received this letter through the President of the National Assembly, probably because you didn't get it because he didn't put it in your hands. This letter reads: "Dear Members, honourable Members! When I look and wonder what you're doing at the sessions and so on, I'm assessing your work as extremely inappropriate and so on, bad. And then it says here that they can't see, the viewers just, the concrete results, and that what we're doing here is only deeper and deeper into the ship that's sinking into the sea. And this viewer who wrote to us, she knocks on our soul and says, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u21	A friend like you said. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u22	Be aware that we too have [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u23	Like you said, an explanation for the voice. Please, no more controversy, can't be answered by the Prime Minister, no one else [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u24	Can I explain why I demand an extended debate? How much? Finally, this viewer points out that she is aware that we ordinary mortals have children and probably we, but that these children do not have fur and hooves and that we should be aware that these families must survive from 400 to 500 euros. While some of the people you privilege receive, even if their salaries are reduced by a third, still have 4 to 5,000 euros. Pays go up by percentage and down by percentage, which is wrong. Take to those who have too much, and give to those who do not have, and you will make order. Because there is such an unfair situation in this country and because banks also finance fraud, as we have seen in the last decision separating the Government, I demand that an extensive debate be held in the National Assembly on this subject. And that ministers will also be able to say what they're doing, in a different way from what the government thinks. I support Mr Lakhovnik in his decisions - at least one man left standing.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u25	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Srečko Friends to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide today in the framework of the votes. Mr. Contic procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! It is not the first time today that this is actually a violation - not to use a worse term, for example abuse - of the rules of procedure. Complementary issues are usually raised with regard to the enlargement of the question, but not with regard to the supplementary question, which is intended to explain the answer of the President or the Minister when the ministers answer. Not to speak in this second part when a procedural proposal is proposed which the Rules of Procedure allow, but this procedural proposal must be of such nature as to propose a decision by the National Assembly to hold a debate on the reply of the Prime Minister with a view to clarifying the matters on which the President or the Minister was responsible and the Member was not satisfied with the reply. However, this must certainly not be an opportunity, what has been happening for some time now in the National Assembly, in other words, is called a complementary question, when the President or the Minister is no longer able to answer the question, this part of the procedural proposal is being used to debate, to make new claims and to ask new questions that cannot be answered. That is why I propose to you, Mr President, as well as to all the Presidents when they are holding a meeting on the questions sent to limit this debate to a procedural proposal, in fact, that there are no discussions, but we only have a procedural proposal or a request.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u27	We are certainly trying to do this, but, you might say, this question has been left to the President's mind. Please, procedurally, Mr. Barovich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u28	According to the predecessor, I am making a procedural proposal to allow the President of the Government to also respond in third. Because last but not least it's a democracy - or change the rules of procedure! Don't laugh! We're not popular here, we're asking the president of the government, and we're happy to have him answer us. And let him answer! We don't mind. Do not report if someone has the right to ask a question and justify a business decision. I am in favour of enabling this or changing the rules of procedure, so that Mr President of the Government can also respond to the third. Do your best, we see it, we respect it and let him answer. Not to say you're gonna shut us up. This is still a democratic institution. I hope you know that!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u29	Of course, I will not allow this because the Rules of Procedure do not allow it. I will be careful, however, to try to influence that the explanation of the proposal will really be just an explanation of the proposal. Procedurally, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Listen, I am dismayed to see that they are proposing here, especially members of the coalition, violations of the rules of procedure. Indeed, the Rules of Procedure make it very clear [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u31	Sir, allow Visac, you're in violation now. You have a procedural proposal or anything, there is no controversy with other proposals. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u32	the decision-making of the debate. [[...]] Let me finish! Procedural! No, no, procedurally. I merely ask of you, Madam President, procedurally, that you respect the rules of procedure and that you do not allow debates which lead to breaches of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u33	Thank you very much. This was a violation of the rules of procedure, but we're moving on. The question to the Prime Minister will be posed by a mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In recent times, it has been virtually impossible for the media to report on the closure of an economic society and a hundred new unemployed people, although many say that the financial and economic crisis has not yet reached the bottom. It could be listed, but today it has already been listed, IJV, Mip, Pomurka, STS, Svilanit, Mehano Elkroy, Betty, Labor, etc. According to Part of the Annex FT, the economic groups that have so far forgiven workers are 88. At the same time, I am extremely concerned about the extent to which this forgiveness of workers and companies' bankruptcys will continue. I am of the opinion that, for Slovenia, every economic society is extremely important and valuable and that everyone has to be given all the attention and responsibility. The easiest thing to do at this time is to shut down or allow them to close, make it much harder, and open new factories. Because I come from a province where according to the Employment Institute, the highest unemployment rate in Slovenia was 14.4% in January 2009 when the average in Slovenia was 7.8%, I do not really hope to think about what can happen to these incomes in the pomur region, where we have the biggest problem of the past, called Mura. In Mura, there are still around 3,500 employees and unemployed people in Pomurje, as I said, there are just over 8 000. In the case of a black scenario, i.e. bankruptcy, unemployment in Pomour could rise by almost 50% and exceed 20% of unemployment, which is, of course, unacceptable for Pomuri. On this issue, I have already asked you a written question, Your Honor, Mr President of the Government. Since things have been complicated lately, I ask you, Mr. President of the Government: What will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia do to ensure that the black scenario in Mura and in some other important companies in Slovenia will not happen or happen? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr President, I ask you for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u36	Your Honor, the National Assembly. The government and this high house have different powers. The government is aware of its powers, and so are you. Together as representatives of those responsible for running this country, we know that in this situation, which is very difficult, we must do our best. And about that, the well-intentionedness of our aspirations is probably beyond anyone's doubt. Whether we are always doing the right thing or not, this is also a matter for controversy in this high house, and I, as Prime Minister of the Government, am always available to exchange views on this. I think that there is no need for excitement because of the vigour of the exchange of arguments; now is the time for sober reflection, for a thorough assessment of the arguments and then for decisive action. I think that is how the Slovenian government works and, as far as we are doing this together with the National Assembly, I would like to express my gratitude for such conduct. Last but not least, when mentioned earlier, we have drawn up a Regulation on the conditions and criteria for issuing guarantees together, regardless of the different powers we have here, on the Committee on Finance, when we worked with the Minister of Finance together with you. This prevents these loans - or guarantees - from being earmarked for the reprogramming of credits that function as buy-in managers instead of money for development programmes in companies in crisis. So, I want to say that there is now a need for reasonableness, some sobriety, good and bad arguments and a decision for the right ones; and as much as possible together. There's no need for too much excitement. As far as Moore's concerned. Yesterday I was visiting Bratislava, and I was also accompanied by an economic delegation in which he was also a member of the administration, Mr Ban. At the end of this visit, we discussed the problems faced by Mura more thoroughly, and we decided to visit Mura in early May. As far as Moore is concerned, let me say a few things that the National Assembly needs to know about the assessment of our further actions. Due to its importance for the entire region, in 2002-2004 the Government of Muri offered short-term rescue loans and granted maximum possible state aid of EUR 10 million under the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in difficulty. Such assistance, ladies and gentlemen, is unique and can only be re-allocated after 10 years. Such State aid also requires the consent of the European Commission. Nevertheless - and this is now, I think that the answer to your question - legislation allows Mura to run for funding from the European Structural Funds or all the current state aid calls. As I have said, the government is strongly aware of the importance of maintaining every job, in particular jobs in a region where not only one job depends on the fate of the company, but the whole family; and it is already so in Mura. We will try to help this company with a number of measures, even though you know that this company is not owned by the majority state. So in the end, I'd like to tell you this. It's not true that the government doesn't deal with individual cases. The government is now trying, in this situation at macroeconomic level, to regulate all the processes that are needed to come out in the medium and long term, as I said, more solidarity and more competitive. We also deal with individual cases. The Wall is one of those cases, and we're going to visit Moore in early May. I'll talk to the board about possible scenarios. What I heard yesterday from a member of the board, Mr Ban, gives me some hope that in some ways the Mura might have a future. Not in as many employees as he has told me as he is now, but a healthy core in it could be an opportunity for a new development. The Slovenian government will do everything in its power to keep you from being missed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Look, Mr President, this is not going to be understood as capricious. I, myself, in the letter I wrote to you at the time, suggested some initiatives on how to solve the matter. In the case of Moore, it's a terrible, as I would say, ownership of an unconsolidated structure. It's more than 40 institutional owners. And until we know how to solve this problem, Moore's problem will always be present. And one more thing. Let's be aware that we've had a lot of incompetent leadership in Mura lately. That's a fact, and everyone knows it. It would be wrong for us to now set up a new leadership in this difficult and difficult time that will not be able to deal with this problem. There are still 3,500 employees. We are all aware that these 3,500 people will probably not be able to keep their jobs, but certainly because leadership is incompetent, there is no need to shut down the whole factory. Surely a large number of them can remain in these jobs. I know the government is dealing with this problem; I know Minister Lakhovnik is dealing with this problem. The same is true, but be aware that in this case, but not only in this case, but also in all other cases, agility is needed, an update is needed and speed is needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u40	I agree with your grades and therefore, as I say, I am preparing my visit to Mura. As you yourself said, so I was informed yesterday in a discussion by a member of the Ban administration, probably all employees will not be able to keep their jobs. For them, the Government is already preparing measures to bridge their short-term problems, while at the same time looking at what can be done to perhaps solve their situation by further education or by re-employment in the longer term. The Wall is one of the largest such textile companies in the area. There's a healthy core in it, according to the management's instructions. That healthy core needs help. The government will explore all the options that we have at our disposal in the light of the formal legal conditions in which we are doing so. The government has an interest that Mure's healthy core means a new start for this textile company. It has a brand that must have a new and shiny meaning, which it once had. I think the administration, as I was told yesterday, is trying to do so, the government will come to Muri's aid in this case. So I'll see you in a good fourteen days at Murski Sobota.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The question to the Prime Minister will be posed by a mag. Borut Saiovic, LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word, a kind greeting to the mandate-holder as well. I am pleased that a ministerial team and a number of colleagues are behind the mandate holders. My question concerns what we have read many times in the media recently, namely that the Slovenian police have stepped up investigations into the perception of the suspicions of crime, particularly in the field of economic crime. In recent times, criminals have also significantly increased their activities in the field of investigation and detection of economic crime. I estimate that this is important and good, that the things that have been falling under the carpet for a long time, let us move on energetically and decisively. Financial and economic crime and corruption are carried out in practice through complex business events, most often with international dimensions. Antitrust benefits increase significantly compared to the past, with the development of high technologies, mass use of networks as well, parallel development and expansion of the so-called crime of high technologies used for the execution of different types of crime, and the existing organisation of detection and prosecution bodies is not adapted to existing changes. The analysis of the situation has shown that, in the area of detection and prosecution of crimes, we are not sufficiently successful and effective, not yet. The reasons for this are different. We will find them both in inadequate legislation, inadequate organisation, human rights policy, material resources, education and training, and in poor interinstitutional cooperation. Criminal police have only 170 criminals in the field of economic crime who, after reporting to the media, work at the edge of their capacities. Of course, if we are to continue at this pace, in times of economic crisis, when increased criminal activity is expected, it is of course necessary to strengthen the criminalist species, in particular personnel and equipment, knowledge, material and infrastructure. The strategy of the Ministry of the Interior in combating the most difficult forms of crime, particularly economic crime, is also the establishment of a National Investigation Office. As Prime Minister, I ask you: But. do we not doubt that, as Prime Minister of the Government, you stand for these measures vigorously, decisively and also express your full support? Above all, I ask you: Are you sure that we will be able, in order to ensure the effectiveness of these measures, to provide adequate financial and material resources, so that what is well-started, we can continue, implement and complete even better? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u44	So, on your question, Mr Member, whether the Government will provide funds for the National Investigation Office to carry out its expected tasks, the answer is yes. I visited the Ministry of Internal Affairs a while ago and talked to a group of people who are preparing a project to set up a National Investigation Office. As you know, this will begin work on 1 January 2010. Not only in this house, but also because of the increased scale of economic crime and organised crime - we all know that the absence of an effective response to this problem undermines people's confidence in the functioning of the rule of law, that we have faced the dilemmas of how to deal with this problem. Here were ideas about the financial police, here were ideas about a strengthened criminal police office. At the end of the project, the group presented a proposal from the Investigation Office. I looked at this project, and I have to say that he convinced me. That is also why the government will do everything it takes to prepare it for human resources, finance, and otherwise to meet our expectations. Our goal is to get a national investigative office, which will carry out its work impartially by successfully pursuing economic crime in order to face corruption problems in order to prevent organised crime. It is our job and our desire to create all the conditions for the country's called institutions to meet the expectations of the people we all represent here, and this is that those who have gone to the other side of the law will also be adequately sanctioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS FOR CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE AIRPORT LAW, IN THE FIELD OF THE COMPLETE PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr Igor Jakomin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, has the floor. Mr. Secretary of State, if you'll take the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u46	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which found partial non-compliance with Article 7, paragraph 8, of the Aviation Act with the Constitution, the Government has prepared a proposal for amendments to the Aviation Act. The proposed amendments aim to align the area of civil aviation security verification with the findings of the Constitutional Court. The following solutions are proposed. The regulation referred to in Article 128, paragraph 7, of the Aviation Act, which provides that, in addition to the personal data listed in Article 128, paragraphs 7 and 8, of the Act, other personal data shall also be processed. More specifically, the offences and offences that the applicant must provide in a more detailed CV are defined. The basis for the verification of the past, the scope of the security check, the personal data processed in the process of verifying the past and the security check, the offences and offences, and ongoing criminal proceedings, which are grounds for refusing the authorisation of movement or withdrawal of the movement and retention permit at public airports. Furthermore, the requirement to provide data on the disciplinary measures imposed has been lifted. A requirement for the use of only one unique identifier of an individual shall be taken into account. The requirement for a single national home number has been retained and the requirement for the submission of a tax number has been deleted. A new provision has been added which, as a reason for refusing to grant a movement permit or withdrawal of an authorisation, provides that the information provided by the applicant in the application for authorisation has not been realistic. A circle of bodies is extended to which certain specificities apply under certain conditions. With regard to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, it was found that the proposals covered lead to an improvement of the text and we also support it. The area of civil aviation protection against unlawful interference is a very complex area. Almost every measure of protection also refers in some way to the information privacy of the individual. In practice, many combinations of information privacy requirements as well as requirements for the benefit of the community and general security are possible. The solutions proposed on the one hand follow the established standards in terms of protection of human rights and the protection of personal data and also provide adequate safeguards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the President, Mr Janko Webr, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! At its 2nd meeting, on 8 April 2009, the Transport Committee carried out an examination of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Aviation Act. In addition to the representatives of the proposer, the Committee of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also participated. In the opening presentation, the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič, presented the reasons for amending and supplementing the draft law relating to the harmonisation of the field of security checks in civil aviation with the findings of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, the law itself also dealt with the legal and legislative service, examined it in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technique and made comments to the bill. Article 1, which specified more precisely the evidence underlying the verification of the past in the procedure for issuing a movement and retention permit at a public airport and in the air navigation service facility, points out that the purpose of the provision after the removal is to rehabilitate the perpetrator of the offence, which is that the offender is no longer able to be dealt with more severely or can no longer be affected by the previous offences. Thus, the right to equality before the laws laid down in Article 14 of the Constitution is exercised, and also in the law of offences as a fundamental principle, the restriction of repression is stressed, since, if not duly assessed, it can be transformed into its contradiction. It further points out in an attempt to specify offences that the proposed specificisation is appropriate, but the new fifth indents proposed should be defined more clearly. The Aviation Act, in the section of the Penal Code, defines all offences as air violations, while it does not specify which of them are related to the protection of civil aviation. The Legislative and Legal Service also drew attention to the field of illicit drugs, highlighting an appropriate definition of the area governed by the Law on the production and trafficking of illicit drugs. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the text of the amendments to Articles 1 and 2 have been prepared together with the expert services of the Committee and the representatives of the Ministry of Transport, which have also been put into the procedure by the members of the coalition. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee held a debate and a vote both on the articles of the bill and on the amendments tabled, and adopted its amendment to the amendment to Article 1 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. After a discussion on the articles of the draft law and the vote on the amendments and amendments tabled by the Committee in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Aviation Act is particularly relevant because it introduces greater concern for the protection of passengers and also eliminates the harmonisation area of security checks in civil aviation with the findings of the Constitutional Court. This gives a more precise definition of offences and offences; this law also specifies the basis for the verification of the past; it also examines the scope of security checks; in short, it also specifies personal data that have not been monitored in some way so far and thus reduces the possibility of various abuses, terrorist activities and other factors affecting passenger traffic in aviation. We support this proposal in the Slovenian National Party. In some ways, however, this has been complemented by an emergency, to which the Constitutional Court also reminds us. As has been said, just as a complement and amendments make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. In the parliamentary group, we welcome the fact that a bill has been tabled in due time to harmonise the provisions of the current law relating to civil aviation security checks with the Constitutional Court's decision. Nevertheless, we believe that it is essential to take into account the comments and proposals made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and we therefore support the additions on the basis of these comments. We've studied the law in two ways. Firstly, in order to harmonise the need and method of verification for obtaining or refusing a movement permit by constitutional provision, so as not to be overly defined in general or to unduly interfere with privacy. Security is one of the most important values. At the same time, we believe that other values, such as freedom, human dignity and respect for human rights and freedoms, which are equally or even more important, must be taken into account and respected, so that extreme measures, verification of personal and other data, and verification of the individual's past, do not cross borders between the necessity of control and verification and the violation of human privacy, dignity and freedom, should be defined more precisely. Secondly, in view of the appropriateness of the definition of powers to the competent authorities. Article 128(4) provides for the police and the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency as the competent authorities for carrying out security checks. The security check shall be carried out by these two authorities in accordance with the powers conferred on them and their authorised persons. Some of the questions raised remain: which powers are involved, whether the powers of those authorities are different from those of their authorised persons, or whether any other powers other than those of the police and the Slovenian intelligence and security agencies under the rules on the protection of classified information are involved. These dilemmas will also need to be clarified, probably in the next novel. We believe that while the law is improved and more precisely defines the verification of the data, we will also support it in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u54	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Members, Members of Parliament, Honourable Secretary of State with Fellow Members! The amendment under consideration does not prejudice the fundamental principles and substantive solutions of the applicable aviation law, but merely harmonises the provisions of Article 128 of the applicable law, paragraphs 7 and 8, with the decision of the Constitutional Court. The proposed amendments aim to align the area of civil aviation security verification with the findings and requirements of the Constitutional Court. Among other things, the novel specifies the offences and offences that the applicant must provide in a more detailed CV, which is an annex to the application for a movement and retention permit at public airports and air navigation services facilities. More specifically, the basis for the verification of the past, the scope of the security check, the personal data processed in the process of verification of the past and the security check, the offences and offences and ongoing criminal proceedings, which are the reason for refusal of authorisation, the movement or withdrawal of the movement and retention permit at public airports. A new provision is added in the proposal for amendments and additions which, as a reason for refusing to grant a movement permit or withdrawal of an authorisation, provides for the fact that, in the authorisation procedure, the information given by the applicant in the application for authorisation has been found to be unrealistic. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we welcome the timely preparation of the amendment of the law and the respect for the deadline of the Constitutional Court. We note, however, that the law in force no longer fully meets the challenges of time, since it was adopted in the longer term in 2001, even before Slovenia became a full member of the European Union. In addition, our regulations in this area, despite the adoption of the amendment of the law, differ to some extent from the regulation or legal order of the European Union in this area. This is why the Minister has probably announced, at the meeting of the Transport Committee, substantive or more fundamental amendments to the Aviation Act, which are to take place this year. In spite of this, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we would also like to point out the unacceptable fact that, despite the eight-year application of the Aviation Act, some important sub-legislative acts have not yet been adopted or adopted, such as the rules on the total noise and emissions of aircraft engines at airports and in the airport zone, and the level of the environmental damage charge, which prevents the effective resolution of conflicts between our largest airport and those of the smaller and surrounding population. We therefore expect the Minister of Transport to resolve this issue as soon as possible. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the amendment of the law and, as it is said, we especially welcome its timely preparation. We will also support the two amendments of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats, Res and Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, both to Article 1 and 2 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Aviation Act, which also summarizes the comments of the Legal and Legal Service. We will support both the proposal for a new law and, of course, both amendments to Articles 1 and 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us changes and additions to the Aviation Act. The applicable Aviation Act was adopted in 2001. However, in 2004, when Slovenia entered the European Union, a series of EU aviation rules were in force and applied which deal with the same or similar issues as those covered by the Aviation Act. Due to overlapping issues, administrative procedures have created an opaque situation as the rules of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union differ in technical terms. On the basis of these problems, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a new law in 2006 which has re-ordered several substantive areas, but the Constitutional Court in its constitutional assessment procedure has found that this is incompatible with the Constitution of Article 128 of the Aviation Act. Therefore, the aim of the proposed amendments, as the Secretary of State has already said, is to align the area of civil aviation security verification with the findings of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law repeals the provisions of Article 128, paragraph 7, of the applicable aviation law, which provides that, in addition to the personal data listed in paragraphs 7 and 8, of Article 128, other personal data shall also be processed. Further details are given on the offences and offences that the holder must provide in a more detailed CV, which is an annex to the application for a movement and retention permit at public airports. A more precise basis for the verification of the past is defined and the scope of the security check is also clearly defined. The request for the submission of data on disciplinary measures has been removed, and changes are also taken into account after the application of the unique identifier of the individual, namely the EMSO. A new decision has been added which, as a reason for refusing to grant a movement permit or withdrawal of an authorisation, provides that the information provided by the applicant in the application for authorisation has not been realistic. There is also an extension of a circle of bodies which are subject to certain specificities under certain conditions. Very briefly and most importantly, the amendment of the law therefore seeks to improve the situation in the field of civil aviation security verification. Therefore, we will support the proposed amendment of the Aviation Act in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, as we will support the two amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u58	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Aviation Act. The European Parliament Regulation lays down common rules in the field of civil aviation security. The Regulation lays down a background verification framework, without a precise set of data to be verified for the individual identity of the person. The criteria for negative security checks are defined very differently in the Member States of the European Union. Therefore, such an arrangement allows for a very wide range of security checks. Such a general regime in the Republic of Slovenia is not in accordance with the Constitution, and therefore the proposed regime is modelled on the arrangements in Germany, Cyprus and other countries of the European Union. The aim of the amendments and additions to the Aviation Act is to align the area of civil aviation security verification with the findings of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which follows from the Constitutional Court decision. Some key points: the text is drawn, which also allows the processing of other personal data that the law did not explicitly specify. This is an amendment to Article 128, paragraph 7, of the Act. More specifically, the offences and offences to be reported by the applicant in a more detailed CV annexed to the application for a movement and retention permit at public airports and air navigation services facilities are defined. More specifically, the basis for background verification is defined. The scope of the safety check shall be specified more precisely. The data to be verified and the competent authorities to carry out the security inspection are the police and the Slovenian Intelligence Agency. The personal data processed in the past and security verification process are more precisely defined. The request for the provision of data on disciplinary measures has been removed. The requirement for the use of only one unique individual identifier is respected. Only the requirement for the submission of a single national home number has been maintained and the request for the submission of the tax number has been deleted. The requirement for a more precise safety reservation regime is also taken into account. More specifically, criminal offences and ongoing criminal proceedings are defined which are grounds for refusing to grant a movement permit or withdrawal of a movement and retention permit at public airports. A new decision has been added which provides, as a reason for refusing to grant a movement permit or withdrawal of a licence, for the authorisation procedure to establish that the information given by the applicant in the application for authorisation has not been realistic. In order to prevent unnecessary duplication of security checks for staff in the State authorities for whom security checks are already carried out for the performance of their duties, an extended circle of bodies subject to exemptions is extended. The amendment of the law follows the requirement of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia to eliminate non-compliance and fulfils the commitment to harmonise Slovenian rules with the rules and technical requirements of the European Union at all levels of civil aviation. We will therefore support the law and amendments to this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u60	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Government. When Slovenia entered the European Union on 1 May 2004, many European Union air regulations entered into force and applied on our soil or in the air. These differed in many ways from the provisions of the Republic of Slovenia, as a result of which the National Assembly adopted amendments and amendments to the Aviation Act in 2006 and thereby re-arranged several substantive areas. Two years later, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision ordering the National Assembly to abolish certain discrepancies with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia within 1 year of the publication of that decision. That is why these amendments and additions to the Aviation Act, which follow the decisions or findings of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia on the field of civil aviation security verification, are proposed here today, while at the same time ensuring compliance with the European Union's legal order in the field of security. Yes, I would not repeat myself too much with the views and arguments of the predecessors, in these amendments to Article 128 of the Aviation Act on movement and retention at public airports and in objects of air navigation services, and in the context of the amendments to the grounds for refusing to issue a movement permit and other restrictions, we agree unanimously in the National Assembly of the Group of Members, which we will, of course, be pleased and also in the Group of Members, will indeed follow the Constitutional Court's decision and the proposed amendments and amendments and the amendment we support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u62	Dear Mr. President! Dear Members and Members. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposed amendment to the Aviation Act. Amendments and additions to the basic law, which are necessary for the elimination of non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which was established by the Constitutional Court on the basis of the request of the information officer for the assessment of constitutionality. It is mainly about amending provisions relating to the collection and processing of personal data. The law currently in force, both after the assessment of the information officer and the Constitutional Judges, has a grave impact on the information privacy of the individual as it allows for the excessive collection of personal data which is not proportionate to the benefit of the community and general security in the country. Furthermore, the law does not provide for the purpose of collecting or processing such data with such clarity that the individual is provided with the necessary legal certainty provided by the Constitution. The bill, which has also been partially remedied by the amendment of the working body, according to our assessment corresponds to the requirements of the Constitutional Court, since the formulation of the provisions in question will not allow for overcrowding which would allow for unconstitutional interference with an individual's personality. The Constitution prohibits the use of personal data contrary to the purpose of their collection. However, an intervention in the constitutional guarantee of the protection of personal data is permitted only in cases provided for by the Constitution or for the rights of others. Members of the DeSUS believe that the amended bill is drafted in a way that follows a constitutional requirement for the protection of personal data. At the same time, it guarantees the rights of others, the security of passengers, persons, property, so that public benefit is achieved by eliminating potential terrorists and other improper persons. The protection of air traffic is undoubtedly in the wider public interest. Therefore, the legal determination to collect or process certain personal data is necessary. Of course, this should not overly or disproportionately affect the rights of others, even in the light of public benefit. These principles, according to our assessment, are followed by a complementary proposal for the amendment to the Aviation Act. That is why we will contribute Members of the DeSUS to the adoption of this law and thus to the abolition of unconstitutionality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 20. 4. 2009 I am putting to the debate first Article 1 and the amendment of the SD, LDS and Zares parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I do not see a desire for a debate, so I am concluding the debate on the amendment to Article 1. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SD, LDS and Zares parliamentary groups. Again, who wants to discuss this amendment? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding the debate on the amendment to Article 2. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Subvention of Student Food, Summary Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The government representative will be joining us in five minutes, so I'm adjourning the session in five minutes. We'll continue the session at 11.25. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u64	Dear colleagues and fellow Members! We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, the reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill, Dr Anji Kopač Mrak, State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u65	Thank you so much for saying that. First, I'd like to apologize for the delay, and because of us, you had to stop the session. I'll be brief. I will make an introductory statement to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation. The law lays down the right of students to subsidised food and the way and criteria for subsidisation. The proposed amendments and additions to the existing law do not constitute a significant interference with the student food subsidy regime alone, but in some ways they constitute significant additions to this system, particularly in the first instance in the work relating to the content of the records maintained by the subsidised student diet operator. A single parent number is added, which the contractor needs to implement the subsidised student diet in an smooth manner. The data exchange operator with the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance shall check whether the student is employed or not through a single home number. An employed student does not have the right to a subsidised student diet. The second point of the amendment is the obligation to report monthly to the Ministry the student food provider. The provider shall report to the operator, which shall report in accordance with the first paragraph of the Article in question to the Ministry. Both changes are related to amendment 8a. Articles of the existing law. The third amendment is a system of control over subsidised student nutrition providers; it is an amendment of 8b. Article 2 A sanction has been added to prohibit the sale of student vouchers for at least one and a maximum of three months. The direct transition from a written reminder to a ban on the implementation of a subsidised student diet has proved to be too harsh in practice, since the guest has received a ban on selling and also a ban on the cashing of vouchers following a warning. The student of the already purchased vouchers could thus not have been able to cash, but was counted as a monthly quota, which is why an instead penalty has been added. In addition to the three amendments mentioned above, a further amendment to Article 6 of the Act is proposed. This Article is amended by deleting the part which says that the beneficiary of the subsidised student diet is a student who is not registered with the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. A student can't be enrolled in this record. The new doctrine is that a student who is not employed is entitled to student food. We propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopt the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, thereby allowing for a more effective system of subsidisation of student diet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee and disabled persons to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the president, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u67	Dear Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is held at its fourth meeting, on 9. 4. 2009 was treated as a parent labour body by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, which was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government, proposing that the examination and adoption of the law should follow a reduced procedure. Representatives from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service and a representative of the State Council and representatives of the Student Organisation of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which also supported the proposal of the law. The Legislative and Legal Service has made comments of a nomotechnical nature to Articles 1, 2 and 3. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the Committee, after a short discussion and in accordance with the comments of the PSC, drafted and adopted amendments to Articles 1 and 2. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended amended law was prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The basic objectives of subsidising student diets in order to reduce the cost of studies for students during the course of the study, and, secondly, the important objective of ensuring and promoting as regular and healthy diets as possible must certainly remain in law. However, it is necessary to monitor subsidised food providers and to take appropriate action, but not to the detriment of students or larger offers. The changes proposed by the Government are supposed to follow the comments made on the home committee. We hope that the Government will keep its promise and will soon also draw up a regulation on amendments and additions to the Regulation on Student Food Subsidisation, with which, as promised, a certain amount of subsidies will start to be included in the maximum amount of the meal, and that it will provide that the guest chosen at the first opening of the tender must not apply to the second opening with a higher price at the same offer. The maximum amount of the instalment will be determined by a call for tender each time. We are thinking about this, and we agree with the proposal made by the Commission of the State Council that it should be examined whether the fine for the tenderer would not be more effective than the proposed new measure, and we are interested in why the Government has not regulated the sanction in this way. Prohibiting the implementation of food or the sale of vouchers deprives students, reduces supply and the like and penalizes operators. We will support the proposed changes in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u71	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the amendment of the Law on Student Food Subsidisation for a simple reason, namely, the basic objective remains, as has already been said, to support students, to ensure quality and healthy nutrition during the study, while reducing costs during the study. We would, of course, like to point out that practice has shown that certain content in the existing law needs to be amended and the amendment proposal of this law takes this into account. It thus specifies who are the beneficiaries of the subsidised diet by stipulating that they are only persons with student status who can no longer be registered in the unemployment records of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment. Of course, there is a fundamental change in the novelty under the basic principle that students do not suffer from the possibility of sanctioning the tenderer. Thus, in order to avoid the possibility of abuse by student food providers, a new measure has been added in the novel, which can be given to the tenderer after a written warning has already been given. By means of a proposal for a law, the proposer shall add a sanction to prohibit the sale of student vouchers for at least one and a maximum of three months, as the current solution has proved to be inadequate as it has established a direct transition from a written reminder to a ban on the implementation of a subsidised student diet. It was therefore a matter of preventing both the sale and the cashing of vouchers in the practice of the inn following a reminder. In doing so, they would be injured students who already owned the vouchers they bought and could not be cashed, with these vouchers counted as a monthly quota. With this law, of course, we would like to point out that at the time of the consideration of this law, we have addressed two initiatives to the Ministry, which we consider to be meaningful in order to study them in the future. One of these has already received a positive response and has been ahead of our initiative in some way in the ministry. It is therefore an initiative in which vouchers would be compensated by so-called electronic payment cards, as this would make it easier to use in catering establishments. According to the Ministry’s assurances, such e-mailing of student diet is expected to take place already in the 2009-2010 study year. Of course we want this to happen. The economic financial crisis has also led us to think about how certain groups of citizens and citizens have found themselves in an unenviable social situation, and given that we believe that certain solutions in other legislation have taken account of differences in relation to social status, of course, it seems reasonable in the circumstances in which we are in, to consider whether or not, in subsidising student nutrition, we would consider that not all students in the same social environment are not all in the same position. And it would also make sense to consider in this law that the basic objective is respected, and this is to help those who are in a more difficult social situation, living in difficult social conditions, to enable everyone to have the best quality studies. Therefore, of course, we are convinced that it would make sense to keep thinking about this solution. Quite in this direction, too, given that the Government is thinking that it could intervene in certain rights under other laws that are universal and that we would have some general principle of respect for the social state, to help those who need it more. But as I said before, in the Liberal Democracy, we will uphold the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. Student food subsidies have been taking place in Slovenia for almost two decades, although the European Union does not know such arrangements, and this is, of course, the way we support the Social Democrats, because they are the most vulnerable social groups to ensure healthy nutrition. The current law with solutions is based on a basic objective, which during the study enables all students to lower costs and, of course, a more quality and healthy diet at each study centre in Slovenia and thus, of course, contribute to a quality study. The law therefore provides for subsidised student diet regardless of the social situation of the student or his family. The legal framework maintains the basic objective of ensuring student diet, that is, during the study, to enable all students to lower the costs of study and to provide them with as regular and healthy a diet as possible. The basic principle followed by the proposal for a law is that students do not suffer from the possibility of sanctioning the tenderer, as has been the case in the past. Thus, a sanction is added to prohibit the sale of student vouchers for a period of at least one and a maximum of three months, in so far as the tenderer is sanctioned. It was previously regulated by the fact that the direct transition from the written note to the ban on the implementation of student food subsidies to students brought a lot of problems, as the vouchers purchased could no longer be cashed, while these vouchers were counted as a monthly quota, so of course we welcome the solution to the cross-border sanction. For this reason, at one of the meetings of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, we also addressed the issue of student vouchers. In the previous term, the tender set the highest price for a student meal, namely EUR 7. Today, in view of the time we are in, such imitation can present great problems. The students themselves expressed their disagreement with the increase in student voucher prices, so they simply did not choose the most expensive bidder, which ultimately led to some bidders being forced to lower the price of the meal. Thus, in the area covered by the University of Ljubljana student organisation, the average price of the student voucher is 2.65 euros, and in the area covered by the University of Maribor student organisation, the average price of the voucher is 1.98 euros, in the area covered by the University of Primorska student organisation, the average price of the voucher is 2.40 euros. On the basis of the opinion of the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, held at its 20th meeting, 1. 2009 has also examined the comments of the said Committee which will be included in the Rules on Amendments and Supplements to the Regulation on Student Food Subsidisation, which will be prepared at the end of the first half of this year. Therefore, we also support the solution to establish in the Regulation the involvement of the subsidy in the maximum amount of the meal, in order to establish that the inn chosen at the first opening of the invitation to tender must not apply to the second opening at a higher price at the same time. The maximum amount of the instalment will be determined by a call for tender each time. The law also provides for the electronicisation of student vouchers, which can bring a lot of improvements, especially with regard to the abuse of student vouchers, can reduce the current costs of issuing vouchers worth more than EUR 400,000 today, and will upgrade a system that will ensure full control over student voucher spending. So once again, the Social Democrats will support the proposed changes to the law, as we support the accessible and healthy diet of the student population, which is even more important in these times, not only for students, but also for students. We also welcome the move of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which has prepared an overview of the state of the student population in Slovenia, which will enable us to help young people to solve their problems in these uncertain times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u75	Thank you. Good-bye, everybody! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment of the Law on Student Food Subsidisation. These are minor changes that will further improve the implementation of student diet, especially for students. However, there is also an improvement in supervision or an additional ban on the implementation of student food subsidies for those who violate the contract or who are failing to implement subsidised student diet. In the time of the previous government, a new or subsidised student diet was also adopted, which we think is very important and good that we have also regulated our diet for this group. However, since the new government and its representatives are predicting whether or not they might even abolish the subsidized diocese diet, perhaps two more words. We believe that this would be very bad and that is why in the SDS Group we propose to a ministry that is not otherwise responsible for the student diet. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u76	Thank you, colleague. I'm very sorry, but it's really not dark. It'll be an opportunity somewhere else.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u77	I'm just finishing one sentence. However, it is the responsibility of the social sector that it is only delicate and insists on maintaining subsidised nutrition for this group as well. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In order to avoid repeating the arguments or extending this item to another issue, I would just like to say that the proposed amendment to the Student Food Subsidisation Act represents minor changes which, on the one hand, provide greater transparency for beneficiaries. We think that a similar principle, the inability to exercise two different social rights, is good. It is likely that another area of social benefits will require such a review and follow this principle, as in this case, that an unemployed person cannot be a recipient or beneficiary of student vouchers. On the other hand, effective supervision of the providers of these services is much more welcome. We will support the proposed amendment of the law, including the amendments adopted by the Committee. We are pleased that this area has been increasingly regulated over the years, that it does not come under question at all the purpose of this law and the whole arrangement, which may otherwise be possible in the world of uniforms, but we believe that it is better than many others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u81	Dear Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues. Our Group of Members will also support this law. This law preserves the basic purpose of regulating student diet. At the time of the implementation of the previous law, which was good, it has been shown that it has some shortcomings that are being addressed by the additions to this law, namely to reduce the possibility of abuse on the one hand and, on the other hand, to eliminate the sale of student vouchers with a different solution, which means that the students who have already bought the vouchers can also spend them. Our Group also asks whether it would not be better to impose a fine instead of a written warning, but nevertheless, the law goes in the right direction, improves the system and has our support. We are also pleased that a regulation is being drawn up that will specify certain things and will be prepared this year. We think it's necessary to preserve the purpose of the law. Surely, though, in a time of severe crisis in which the country is a country, there is no exaggeration in the thinking that has also been initiated today to consider the right to a student’s diet in relation to the material situation of the family or student. If someone is very well provided, then there are many questions as to whether it makes sense to receive this subsidy on the one hand, and on the other hand, such a solution might increase the subsidy for those who live on the edge or who are having difficulty studying. In any case, we think that the law governing student diet is the one which, however, provides all students with better, not to say, healthier diet, and in doing so to improve this novelty, is also supported by our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We fully support the law or proposal of the Law on Student Food Subsidisation in the Slovenian National Party. After all, it is a matter of adding a sanction to the temporary ban on the sale of vouchers to violators. And that's very important. And let's say bob beans, very simple, we'll also stop the reselling with this supplement. We know there's been some of this in practice before. While the country allocates €1.142.000 to subsidise student nutrition, it is the same. Anyone with a non-employable status, with student status, also this novelty is good, can get a voucher, which offers him that a warm meal is subsidized for up to three euros if we take it to cost on average a warm meal in the 5.5 euro restaurant. Why give students student vouchers if we assume that the average price, as already said, is 5.5 euros, so the price of the average student voucher is 2.5 euros at a meal, it is 60 euros per month, it is not such a negligible amount, it is 720 euros. The fact is that in this time, time of recession, crisis and so on, which Slovenia has also felt, this is a necessary measure. The main objective of the proposed law is also to ensure this regular diet. If I touch more of what most teenagers do. Analysis in Slovenia shows that 42% of boys and 37% of girls go to school without breakfast. So they don't have breakfast, and 80% of them don't have regular hot meals. Diabetic diet is questioned. I know this isn't the agenda. I'd like to appeal to a respected secretary of state. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u84	Please, Mr. Friend, this really isn't the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u85	I know, but on this occasion, I can appeal. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u86	You know, I know, so today we're not gonna talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u87	You have an abnormal desire to interrupt today. When presenting the views of the Group of Members, I can afford this sentence. Just one sentence, please. I would ask you not to remove what has been adopted recently, because 45 million euros in universal Slovenia will not save. As has already been said, we fully support the proposal of the Law on Student Food Subsidisation in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u88	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 9th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on private protection under the framework of the shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. We'll ask you immediately, Your Honor, whether the government's representatives are already here. So, as I heard a voice from the hall, they're coming. We'll wait for them to hear us predict them. So, as I have already mentioned, the proposal for a law was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Ms Katarina Kresal, Minister for the Interior, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, the President. Dear Members and Members. Security is a human right defined in Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and has a special place between human rights and fundamental freedoms. We can say that ensuring security, order and peace is a fundamental task of the state, as only people in a secure environment can exercise other rights and fulfil other obligations and duties. In addition to public authorities and institutions, security personnel and legal persons engaged in private security activities contributing to the internal security system shall also be involved in ensuring security. Given that security personnel may interfere with the human rights and fundamental freedoms of an individual in providing security, it is imperative that this area be regulated by the State. At the beginning of this year, 107 legal persons were registered in Slovenia who have a licence to carry out a private security activity. Together, they have 220 licences to carry out various forms of protection and more than 6 000 security guards are employed in the industry. In 2003, the Act on Private Protection was adopted, which re-organized the licensing system according to the forms of private security activities that are still in force with individual supplements today. The changes to the law were followed in 2007, due to alleged extraordinary events in front of nightclubs. The amendment strengthened the conditions for obtaining a licence and obtaining a service card for security personnel, made it possible to control them more effectively, and also strengthened the conditions for temporary and permanent withdrawal of the licence. The Constitutional Court, by decision of 2008, found that the individual provisions on the temporary and permanent withdrawal of a licence in non-compliance with the Constitution and that the law should, in accordance with the principle of clarity and determination, refer to a specific standard. The reason for non-compliance with the Constitution was also retroactivity, as the law in previous decisions did not provide that the procedures for the withdrawal of licences could only be introduced if the companies committed an infringement after the entry into force of the novel and not before the amendment. The Court also ordered that, pending the harmonisation of the law with the constitutional provision of the temporary and permanent withdrawal procedures, licences should be introduced only if the companies had committed an infringement after the entry into force of the novels and not before the amendment. The Ministry has already taken into account the general legal principle in force before the decision adopted by the Constitutional Court in order to take the minor rules into account for the party, as confirmed by the Administrative Court when the action was brought in the proceedings. The G7 and VIP Security are examples of this. On the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of the Interior has also prepared a proposal for amendments and amendments to the law. The draft law does not derogate from the principles which were taken into account when the law was drafted in 2003 and the novelty in 2007. The proposal fully takes into account the Constitutional Court's decision, the legal principles of clarity and certainty, as well as the legal principles of proportionality and the safety of public interest. This also satisfies the principle of efficiency, taking into account in particular the constitutional principle of the right to individual security. In the light of the constitutional decision, the conditions for temporary and permanent withdrawal of the licence are defined more precisely and more precisely. In view of the possibility of stepping up the measures, a new Institute for Conditional Withdrawal shall be introduced in the event that relief circumstances or a minor impact on human security and property are identified in the withdrawal process. Compared to the previous provisions on the withdrawal of a licence, the number of infringements which may result in the withdrawal of a licence is reduced. Notwithstanding the current changes and additions, the Ministry of the Interior has already launched procedures for a comprehensive regulation of private protection activities in November 2008, as this activity needs to be continuously developed and taken into account new developments. To this end, a project group was appointed at the beginning of the year for changes in the area of private protection, in which representatives of the Ministry, police, chambers, inspectorates and the Faculty of Social Sciences were appointed. We expect the work to be completed on August 1st, and on the basis of this adopted strategy, we will approach the preparation of a new, comprehensive Personal Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Anton Kolaric, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister, colleagues, colleagues. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice is at its 3rd regular session. 4. 2009 as a parent labour body was considered by the Government's proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection for consideration by the National Assembly following a reduced procedure. Amendments to SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS were tabled within the time limit. 4. 2009 and amendments to the amendments to Article 8 of the same proposal. 4. 2009 and amendments of the SDS Group of Members of Parliament of 1. 4. 2009 Government representatives stressed at the meeting that there were minor changes to the Law on Private Protection. The amendment to the 2007 Act strengthened the supervision of the conduct of private security activities and the conditions for temporary and permanent withdrawal of the licence. The Constitutional Court found that the provisions on the temporary and permanent withdrawal of the licence were inconsistent with the Constitution and ordered the National Assembly to remove the finding of non-compliance within six months. The draft law takes into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court, specifying the conditions for the temporary and permanent withdrawal of the licence and the infringements for which those measures may be imposed. The purpose and scope of the free-thinking are also defined in order to take account of the principle of proportionality and the protection of public benefit. In the event of temporary withdrawal of the licence, the Authority is given a new possibility of conditional withdrawal of the licence. It was also pointed out that they had collaborated with the Slovenian Private Protection Development Chamber and with external experts in the drafting of the bill. Representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service and the President of the Commission of the State Council for State Regulation also participated in the committee. And he stressed that the Commission of the State Council for State Regulation supports the proposal for a law. In the debate and decision-making, the members of the Committee agreed with the proposed amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1 of the draft law, which was deleted from paragraphs 3 and 4, since both paragraphs restrict the free economic initiative of economic operators. I would like to point out that the Government has also agreed with this amendment. The amendments of the SDS Group to Article 1 and the amendments of the coalition, SD, Really, DeSUS and LDS to Articles 3 and 8 were adopted in subsequent votes on the Committee. However, the Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 3 and 4. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u92	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u93	Mr Vice President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Private Protection, which is being examined by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia following a reduced procedure. Security is one of the human rights defined in Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to public authorities and institutions, security also involves security personnel and legal persons carrying out a private security activity that contributes to the internal security system in this respect. Given that security personnel may interfere with the human rights and fundamental freedoms of an individual in providing security, it is imperative that this area be regulated by the State. The activity of private protection is therefore an activity that we both consider to be of special social importance in the European Union and in the European Union. According to this definition, this activity itself requires the system regime represented by the Private Protection Act, which was adopted in 2003. This law lays the systemic basis for the legal and quality provision of private protection services. Since private protection activities concern a specific activity requiring the State's particular attention, the State has the possibility, through its authorities and in accordance with the law, to impose administrative sanctions on those private security operators which infringe the provisions of the rules governing this activity. It is possible to issue a withdrawal, revocation or suspension of a licence or to suspend a licence. Such sanctions also included the original law on private protection. After a tragic event in front of the Global Discotheque, the former government proposed a new law adopted by the National Assembly at the end of 2007. This amendment of the Law on Private Protection has strengthened the conditions for licensing and security personnel. However, it has also ensured effective control over the performance of private protection. An effort is being made to achieve effective and immediate action against lawbreakers. The conditions for temporary and permanent withdrawal of the licence have also increased. As it has now proved, the then minister and the government are desirous of making private protection companies the most advantageous and forgetting the need to take care of reality and legality. For the Constitutional Court is by decision of 25. 9. 2008 found that the provisions on the temporary and permanent withdrawal of a licence under Articles 40 and 41 of the Law were inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The amendment to the Law on Private Protection, which we are considering today, is therefore a retrial, which is being carried out instead of the previous current government. The proposal takes into account the decision of the Constitutional Court, the legal principles of clarity and certainty, as well as the legal principles of proportionality and the protection of public interest. This also satisfies the principle of efficiency, taking into account in particular the constitutional principle of the right to individual security. At the LDS Club, we will support the proposed solutions covered by the complementary proposal of the mother's working body. We are convinced that the Ministry of the Interior has prepared and proposed such solutions as will, on the one hand, eliminate the unconstitutionality of this law and, on the other hand, allow the State or its competent authorities to act promptly, effectively and constitutionally against those who break the law. In this regard, at the LDS Club, we support the initiation of a procedure for the comprehensive regulation of private protection activities by the Ministry of the Interior. This procedure shall include both internal and external experts, licence holders, chambers and colleges. On the basis of an analysis of the existing situation and comparative arrangements, the Strategy for the Development of Private Security Activities in Slovenia is being prepared. The strategy will be used as a mandatory basis for appropriate regulatory arrangements for private protection activities. We believe that this will create a framework that will, to the greatest extent, prevent the events we have witnessed in the past at a systemic level. This is our duty and obligation, so we will also support the proposed law at the LDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Anton Kolarič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again a nice greeting to all who are in the hall! The aim of the amendment of the Law on Private Protection is to amend and supplement the law in areas that have proved to be under-defined or inadequately defined in practice and are therefore unclear for users and providers of security services. More precisely, the conditions for temporary and permanent withdrawal of the licence are now defined and the competent ministry can, in accordance with the provisions - I hope that this law will be passed - also declares a conditional withdrawal of the licence. The amendment of the law implements the Constitutional Court decision of 25. 9. 2008, as a result of the adoption of the new Private Protection Act of September 2007. From the year when, due to the famous events, a number of things were done quickly, without reflection and then, the then government introduced a law that, according to the profession, also by certain Members and also by Members who then represented the SD in the then Parliament and did not support it. The Chamber then tabled a constitutional assessment request and this time followed this constitutional decision of 2008. The Social Democrats support the adoption of the amendment, and we do not support the amendment to Article 3 tabled by the SDS Group again. We believe that the Law on Private Protection needs to be updated and modernised as soon as possible, and we expect it to be attached to the National Assembly as soon as possible, even this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Let me start by saying we'll support the marriage. However, when we have reviewed this law, and we have clearly observed one serious thing in Article 1, I will say, a restriction of competition, which is already the custom of this government, especially the justice minister, when we speak of some lawyers, notaries and similar. However, we have tabled an amendment to Article 1 which the Minister has supported. We believe that this has removed all obstacles to support this law, since Article 1 now clearly allows competition on the market. It was simple that large companies that have their own security services that meet all the conditions can do so today. However, the previous provision in Article 1 was such that this was impossible, and we are therefore glad that this amendment has been supported. As for our amendment, which has also been tabled, I will say so, we still believe that the conditional withdrawal of the licence does not bring about anything to complicate anything, so we have tabled this amendment. However, the adoption of this amendment is not conditional on your final support for this law. So we'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek will present his position on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the proposed amendments and additions to the law on private protection are necessary. In 2007, as we have already heard, we were faced with unloved events. The media was further dramatically dramatic, of course it was necessary to raise ratings, to react to policy and to quickly adopt some provisions, for which the Constitutional Court found that, in violation of the Constitution and the National Assembly, it had ordered that non-compliance should be eliminated within six months. The proposal for a law before us has taken this guidance into account and has more precisely and definitively defined the conditions for temporary and permanent withdrawal of the licence which may give rise to such measures. In particular, this takes account of the principle of proportionality and the protection of public benefit. A new option has also been added for the temporary withdrawal of the licence where the possibility of a conditional withdrawal of the licence has been granted to the authority. Secondly, it is also important that the principle followed by the proposer of amendments is the principle of protection of public interest, where the conflict between an individual and public interest is resolved. The amendment tabled by the SDS Group was adopted on the working body. The amendments set out the reason for this amendment to remove restrictions on the free economic initiative of economic operators and on competitiveness and the possibility for individual entities to take part in the private protection market. We are truly skeptical of this solution in the Group of Messengers. We believe that such an important dilemma must be resolved in an appropriate manner within the entire system. Above all, the Ministry of the Interior will have to approach the comprehensive amendment of the law as soon as possible. The principle must be followed that security guards serve what they have in their name, i.e. they are security guards and not dangerous. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure the normal conditions for the various organisers who need these security guards, not to exhaust them and it is necessary for, for example, the New Year's Retirement Meeting to provide security services or for the 50th anniversary of the graduation to provide five security guards and so on. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support these additions and amendments, taking into account the findings of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u101	Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. The Government has submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on private protection, which eliminates the unconstitutionality of certain provisions, as pointed out by the Constitutional Court. Thus, a more precise and precise definition of the conditions for the temporary and permanent withdrawal of a licence for the management of a private security activity is proposed. The infringements which may result in the imposition of these two measures are specified in more detail. However, the possibility of a conditional withdrawal of the licence is also given. It is therefore not a major breach of the basic law, since the anomalies are virtually eliminated, as adopted in the previous term following a rapid procedure, which is the result or response to tragic events that have also taken place in young people's lives. The alarmingly poor state of control of private security companies, which resulted in unprofessional, illegal and sometimes life-threatening conduct of private security activities and then in the Constitutional Court decision, contributed to the drafting of a new basic law. We will support these amendments and additions in the DeSUS Group, as the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service are also taken into account from a nomo technical point of view. This is how we assess the complementary proposal as suitable for adoption. We are also pleased that the applicant also had a hearing for the public concerned, through which he prepared the text on the basis of prior coordination in accordance with the guidelines of the Constitutional Court and provides a basis for effective insurance for both people and property. Members of the DeSUS will be supported by a complementary proposal for a new law on private protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister. The third paragraph of Article 3 of the Law on Private Protection has rightly provided that private security providers shall exercise their private protection solely as their main economic activity. The proposed amendment amends the third paragraph of Article 3 of the Law by arguing that it is an unacceptable restriction on the free economic initiative of economic operators. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group, the security of individuals, as well as the wider public interest that is present in private protection, is certainly a legitimate reason for such a restriction. The third paragraph provided that legal entities shall carry out a private protection activity as the main economic activity. The provision was included in the Act with Amendment A. The amendments emphasise that the practice has shown that the Ministry by such regulation restricted legal persons engaged in other activities such as the sale and implementation of technical means, computer, gaming, telecommunications and so on, and they wanted to organise their own security service, but were disabled by the decision on the main activity. In this regard, competition and the ability of individual legal entities to take part in the free market were also limited. They include legal entities whose activity is sensitive and would not be in line with their security policy to be protected by other legal entities. In the first draft of the text, the Ministry carried out restrictions on the main activities, but the Chamber for the Development of Slovenian Private Protection objected. The Chamber commented that, without a wider discussion, the conditions of the main activity should not be deleted, which we also agree with in the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, and alternatively proposed a text which was originally also in the proposal of the law that the entities referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article exercise private protection as the main economic activity, with the exception of entities carrying out a private protection activity for their own purposes. Therefore, in coordination with the Chamber, its proposal was adopted to add to the existing text a text which provides that the restriction of the main activities does not apply to entities carrying out private security activities for their own purposes. These entities could provide protection to their own facilities without providing services on the market to other entities. Subjects who are licensed for their own protection are also under the supervision of the Internal Affairs and Police Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, compared to entities which are protected only by internal regulations. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice then adopted an amendment from the LDS Group, which simply deleted the third paragraph of Article 3 of the Law on Private Protection, which means that private protection can be carried out as a foreign or complementary activity in a new way, which, according to the Slovenian National Party Group, is unacceptable and extremely dangerous. It should be borne in mind that the implementation of private protection is extremely sensitive and responsible, as has recently been the case in the recent past. The regulation of the implementation of the activities should therefore be as restrictive and precise as possible and its monitoring should be continuous. Currently, there are 107 legal persons registered in Slovenia who carry out a private protection activity. However, after the adoption of the proposed novel, we can expect that their numbers will increase dramatically. And how the Inspectorate will even be able to control such a large number of legal persons who may be engaged in precisely other activities and private protection is just a side activity for which they may not even have enough qualified people. In the light of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Personal Protection in the Slovenian National Party Group, we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Private Protection, since it is a minor but necessary intervention into the law adopted in 2003 and amended in 2007. Prior to this, the regulation of the area of private protection was weak and inadequate. Tragic events have also occurred and future maintenance would result in violations of regulations, ineffective controls and threats to security and property. In 2007, we supported amendments to the law, which significantly tightened the supervision of the operation of the security services, notably the temporary and permanent withdrawal of the licence. The Constitutional Court then decided that certain provisions were contrary to the Constitution. We will support the proposal for amendments and additions because it respects the principle of proportionality and because it redefines the possibility of temporary, conditional and permanent withdrawal of the licence. While we believe in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that there are comments by the Legislative and Legal Service and that they would be better taken into account. We therefore hope that this law will indeed enable the Ministry of the Interior to act even more effectively against violators of private protection rules. We wish to ensure a higher level of safety and that there are no more anomalies that have had serious consequences. In the hope that the proposed law will prevent some of the irregularities we have witnessed in the last period, we will support this bill in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u106	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since an amendment is tabled under Article 3 of the Law, we are moving on to a debate on Article 3 and an amendment tabled. Anybody want a word? Please, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The proposed amendment removes the link to the Institute of Conditional Licence Withdrawal, simply on the grounds that the proposed arrangements of the Institute of Conditional Subtraction do not specify in which cases this institution could be pronounced. In the opinion of the parliamentary group, it is unacceptable to delete the Institute of Conditional Withdrawal in view of all its positive effects, since it would be more appropriate to specify more precisely the cases in which this measure could be pronounced. In the practice of criminal policy, it has clearly been shown that a conditional measure is one of the most effective measures, in addition to being one of the milier ones at the disposal of criminal policy. Even in the light of my experience so far, I can say with certainty that the conditional punishment has always been the most effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 9th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. POINT - PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF THE THIRD PARAGRAPH 157 F MEMBERS OF THE AUTHORITY AND COMMUNITY RIGHTS LAW. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted to the assembly by the MEP. Andrej Vizjak. I give my word to the magician. To Andre Visiak for further explanation of the proposal for the adoption of an authentic explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members! With the amendment of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, the real latest novelty was introduced by the so-called Copyright Council, whose main purpose is to fill one gap that was or is supposed to resolve conflicts between collective organisations, called SAZAS, with ZAMP, IPF [[?]] and users, in particular economic operators, linked by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Joint Employers and the like. The main goal of this world is to fill out something that was not there. What was going on? It took place on the principle that the author should determine, or that relative or the holder of a related right, a tariff for a particular matter, and such a rate. However, economic operators are ahead of the decision to take or not to use this. This means that, for example, if we simply watch, in a restaurant or in a hairdressing salon, where music is produced, owners or those who manage these venues can either turn off music or agree to tariffs set by collective organisations. This seemed to us in some way unsustainable, unacceptable, and in fact the Copyright Council was also set up. The whole coalition of various developments in this House in the previous term was in this regard, but in the end this solution to the introduction of this copyright council, which, as an expert body composed in a balanced manner between users and collective organisations, with a certain person in the position of president, decided the fifth member on this dispute and would then cut down some practice from the past. This has, of course, been established, but the problem has arisen as to whether this Copyright Council is named from case to case, so to speak, I do not know if we have, for example, the issue of ZAMP tariffs, that the Council, given the specific nature of the problem, is different from that of some authors' rights under SAZAS. When adopting legislation and adopting this solution in Parliament, an amendment was adopted at that time, which makes it very clear that the purpose of this Council was to be made up of ad hoc is to refer to the case, since these cases can be very different. In view of some relatively modest composition of the Council, it would be difficult for representatives, although experts are independent and so on, to represent themselves universally from all areas. Therefore, it was also then the idea that it was an ad hoc body that dealt with the case after the case. And even when I suggested authentically, I had it in mind. In particular, I had in mind how to protect users who have been neglected so far, not to face a situation of 'take or leave', but to represent their interests in the event of certain conflicts. However, in the parliamentary procedure phase on the subject of this authentic interpretation, we have actually experienced a relatively sharp criticism of this authentic interpretation by the Legislative and Legal Service, and at the same time the problem has arisen that such solutions have also been denied by those associations to which this was intended. It's called users. And that's why, because no one felt that this authentic explanation would mean some added value, some benefit to the users, and the basic purpose was to benefit the users, I also gave up and separated myself from this solution. I also said that to the Committee on the Economy at that time, but due to the procedure and due to the business arrangements, this procedure must run out today and here as well. And that's why again. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] These solutions of an authentic interpretation, mainly because of the failure of users to support this, are the employers' organisations I do not insist on any more. [[...]] I'm not going to support her anymore, but I'm going to hold on to her.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was considered by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I give the floor to President William Rezman for the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Indeed, the Committee considered this proposal for an authentic interpretation as its parent working body, after adopting a whole series of written opinions, views on what was, in fact, so professionally substantiated that it was not later decided on the text of the authentic interpretation itself, but only whether the authentic interpretation was necessary or not. As we said, the materials were quite substantial. Representatives of those who proposed the materials were also present. It was noted, however, that representatives of all collective organisations did not participate in the meeting. For example: IPF and SAZAS are not. The Legislative and Legal Service has assessed that, with regard to the formal conditions, the request made by Mr Andrej Vizjak is entirely correct, but that there is no need for an authentic interpretation, and it was also clear from its written report. As we have just heard, the proposaler himself later decided not to pursue this debate at all, which was not possible because of the reasons he has just stated and will not repeat them. The opinion of the Government and others who wrote down their views was negative. Similarly, the position of the Commission of the State Council was similar. And when it came to voting on whether a debate was needed, it was decided not to. Nevertheless, we believe that the debate was of good quality, that it also brought some new solutions. And although the vote was nothing for and nine against the authentic interpretation and the mother working body adopted a decision to propose to the National Assembly not to support the proposal for an authentic interpretation, an additional decision was adopted, which we consider to be a surplus of this meeting, that something is added, namely a decision to propose to the Government that a thorough action be taken in this area, which was addressed at the meeting of the home working body, and that it should therefore approach the preparation of an amendment or a new law on copyright and copyright. The home labour force, the Committee on the Economy, hopes that the Government will take this proposal into account and prepare such materials. Of course, we are counting on all those who are most involved in this area, including representatives of collective organisations and economies and those who are in direct life. [[I've got company in mind.]] It's the best thing to do. The proposal of the parent’s working body is that the authentic interpretation is not supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Since the Government's position on the part of the applicant and the working body was fully supported during the discussion, the Government informed us that it would not present its position at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr. Luka Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for an authentic interpretation seeks to solve the problem created by the poorly defined provisions introduced by the copyright council in the amended Law. For the provisions of the law implicitly provide for the establishment of only one copyrighted council, which should be responsible for all matters falling within its domain under that law. This is also the case with the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Given the real situation, such regulation is problematic, as we cannot expect only one copyrighted world to solve a variety of unresolved issues, especially tariffs related to various collective organisations such as SAZAS, IPF or ZAMP, and various users, such as innkeepers, other entrepreneurs, culturers, concert organizers, representatives of radio stations, etc. Therefore, the Social Democrats understand the proposal of an authentic interpretation as an attempt to resolve this issue, but we are also aware that this attempt is inadequate, as it is only possible to express explicitly the importance of the legal provisions by authentic interpretation, but not to amend them. Moreover, such an authentic interpretation would lead to practical difficulties in implementing the provisions of the law, since in many cases these are incompatible with the solution envisaged by several copyright councils. We join the opinion of the committee responsible that, instead of adopting the proposed authentic interpretation, it is preferable to approach a comprehensive amendment of the Copyright and Related Rights Act. This proved to be inappropriate in many of the solutions. We believe that it is necessary to approach such a amendment to the law, which will significantly facilitate procedures for the acquisition of exclusive copyright by users. It is inappropriate that users of copyright and related rights today have to pay multiple bills, causing confusion and lack of transparency. At the same time, we believe that it is wrong to settle the dispute over the use of copyright and related rights mainly on a judicial basis. It would make sense that the new law would give more emphasis to negotiations and agreements and that it would not, as is the case now, only cause lawsuits in the Slovenian courts. It would also be appropriate to allow the new law to prevent non-profit and, in particular, charities from paying such high compensation for the use of copyright and related rights. As arranged today, it is senseless and harmful. At the same time, it will be important to note that the novel does not harm the main users of this law, i.e. authors and contractors. Slovenian national identity is based on its cultural basis, both literary and musical. Our main interest must therefore be to enable users to make the simplest and cheap use of copyright and related rights, while at the same time allowing authors and performers to provide deserving bread with their artistic creation. Therefore, we will not support the proposed authentic interpretation by the Social Democrats, but at the same time we expect the Government to submit its proposal for a new Law on Copyright and Related Rights in a short time. However, social democrats will engage proactively with their ideas and values in the legislative process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group of Members will be presented by the mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u115	Your Honor! The Slovenian Democratic Party will abstain in this vote for reasons which I have already pointed out as the proposer. However, I do not think that we have solved the fundamental problems in this law, which have led to the proposal of this authentic interpretation. In practice, we are dealing with unacceptable cases. We are faced with cases where, for example, a humanitarian, charitable event is conducted with a cultural programme, which is later charged with the use of works of art, although it is a humanitarian event. We are also faced with cases of some casual events that have nothing to do with profits or meetings between elderly, pensioners or exiles, for example, and we have a cultural program. And again, an account has been issued by copyright holders and related rights. There's a lot of cases like this. There are also cases where more accounts are played and also published in European terms and compared to other countries. Similarly, collective organisations have so far failed to make this effort to, for example, issue uniform accounts for their services or for what they stand for and thus make it easier for those who pay for it. There are many open questions on this subject, and in particular the most open issue has always been the question of arbitration or the decision-making of the dispute between users and holders of these copyright or related tariff rights. That was always in the foreground. In general, collective organisations set these tariffs and users had a choice or pay it or not. And that is why the previous Government has dealt with this Copyright Council and it seems to us that it would be inappropriate for certain collective organisations or certain lobbyists to abuse certain, read, experts in this Copyright Council, and this would in some way be sealed for one term, for five years, to raise a big question as to whether the decisions that would then have even more weight are correct. Therefore, it was the idea to call it ad hoc from case to case. However, once again, if not users, neither authors feel with this proposal, of course not in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, this was an attempt to open up this issue and also to call on the Committee on the Economy to consider trying to close some of these issues by this current government. Therefore, in some ways, I am satisfied with the debate, because at least what it is, it responded to one possible solution that was being offered. In fact, I want a solution to the problem at the end. Even if it will be different, even if it will be in the context of a new law, but this situation in Slovenia is not adequately resolved in this area, so it needs solutions. This has been shown several times in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u117	Dear President! Colleagues and colleagues! Copyright is a regime to promote creativity and is carefully protected and shaped by every nation. Some countries have raised this right to a constitutionally protected value, which, of course, protects individual authors, individuals. The collective exercise of rights is, however, a more than a hundred-year-old model that has a rich tradition and an effective mission in some developed European countries. In Slovenia, this collective exercise has not gone beyond some of the initial problems. According to some or many, the business of collective organisations is poorly transparent, it has various shortcomings, and their members themselves point to them, which you probably already know. On the other hand, they are also interlocutors of collective organisations, these representative user associations, in fact poorly educated users of works of copyright, which are often unjustifiably overturned by the payment of compensation. The situation is difficult and for many years the customers have failed to negotiate the level of tariffs that are supposed to be acceptable, appropriate to our economic situation or, above all, that users should pay them regularly and that their owners could live from them. The Copyright Council is therefore this new body provided for in the Copyright and Related Rights Act, which is intended to bridge the failure of these negotiations and to set appropriate tariffs. For its successful operation, the law lays down certain conditions which are, for example, experts as independent experts in the field of copyright. Much has already been said today about who it can be, whether we have such people, or whether there are people who can learn about various forms of copyright. I think we have many other advisory bodies in this country that cover so wide or even wider areas. And even in this case, I believe that such people could be found. Of course, it is always true that there are various material interests in the game, but trust in a certain profession is still necessary. However, we believe in Zares that in the composition of this Copyright Council, the then Minister did not have a very happy hand when he appointed him. It is true that there is a disagreement in the law between paragraph 3 of Article 157.f. and the other law. I do not want to speculate as to what the then drafter of this article, SDS Member of the former Rugl, has led to the fact that in the second reading he has proposed such a dictatorship of this article, which, despite the opposition of the Legislative and Legal Service of the then State Assembly. However, in the current opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, it is clear that the purpose of the law, although it has been said otherwise here today, could not have been the creation of an ad hoc world, because, on the other hand, if that was the purpose, it should have provided that such councils could be more, since there are also more user organisations and organisations protecting collective rights of authors. I think it is better for us to remain in the opinion of the assessment of Article 157.f. that it was a linguistic error which was overlooked, because any speculation about other purposes might be exaggerated. We agree in Zares, as the Committee on the Economy has said, that this area is not sufficiently well-founded. The problems cited here regarding humanitarian and similar concerts, of course, exist, and the law did not foresee this exception at all. If it had been, collective author organizations probably wouldn't have sent these bills, because they wouldn't have the legal basis for it, but now they have it and they're doing it. As has already been said, the copyright users themselves, their authors, did not agree on the proposed solution and this explains that it is ad hoc even in this case. We will not support the proposed mandatory interpretation in Zares, but we will be very actively involved in any changes to this topic that will follow in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u119	Thank you again, Mr Vice President, for the floor. The position of the Member State of DeSUS is favourable to what the Law-Legal Service has been very professionally elaborating and, in essence, not professionally, but also to all the other positions written by either the Chambers or the Government or the Council or the Commission of the State Council. Therefore, the view is that this authentic explanation is not necessary, but that does not mean that the law should remain intact. We also assess the need for novelties. Some even believe that it would be good to write a new law, which we do not fully agree with in the DeSUS Group, because any article or provision has been assessed as inappropriate or, perhaps because of the sub-laws, regulations and others that have arisen on this basis, it has not been determined as expected, perhaps not necessarily to amend the whole law. We do not believe that this is necessary either, because if we accepted the authentic explanation as proposed, perhaps this could mean more arbitrariness, it could mean or certainly would cause inconsistentness and non-coherence within the law itself. This would probably also increase uncertainty and reduce legal certainty. We estimate that the proposaler himself has agreed to this, and therefore we believe that the second decision adopted on the home labour body on the Committee on the Economy is more important and should be approached as soon as possible. No one today is particularly satisfied with what is happening, nor are the authors themselves, nor are all collective organisations in the same way and societies certainly are not, and many who represent our economic sphere have many and serious concerns. It is interesting and very welcome, however, that representatives of the authors, and I have spoken with some of them myself, have agreed that a new amendment must be approached, with great emphasis, and I am in favour of them, as well as our Group of Members, that they want to be partners in the creation of new legislation from the very beginning. I would therefore like to appeal to the Government to listen to this and to prevent what might happen from happening, because according to the information we have, alternative proposals or drafts of this law are already being prepared in individual parties, which is not necessarily the best. Perhaps it would be better for the Government to approach this and involve all relevant partners to cooperate, so that something would not then arise that would be written in political parties and submitted to the authors for admission or rejection. That's probably not the best way to make this marriage. We in the DeSUS Group support the amendment of this law also from the very well-known, many-listed problems encountered in the implementation of this law. Let me say that the authors, including representatives of SAZAS, have trusted us that they quite agree with the fact that pension, humanitarian, charitable and I do not know any other society that cares about culture or any other form of socially acceptable work forgives the full payment of any contribution. They even see this as some kind of donation and support for the development of Slovenian culture. It is true, however, that there will be quite a variety of interests and that conflicts and complications may arise in the emergence of new legislation when the rights of authors with the rights of those who represent the economy are faced. A lot of patience and wisdom will have to be in order to be able to come up with such a proposal that will be acceptable to all concerned. In this regard, our Group also renounces its support for the need to continue this process and hopes for the preliminary draft of the novel as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u121	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! Two of the contents are two points which are attached to the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. The first is legal and is a clear authentic interpretation of a law eases an instrument that allows the legislator to legally address the content of the legal provision already adopted within the framework of the original meaning. Such an interpretation of the law has legal effects, i.e. since the enactment of the law further, but the authentic interpretation does not affect the pocket of the legal solution. Unfortunately, the authentic interpretation cannot be intended to amend or supplement the law, but it may refer to the interpretation of the legal provisions which have proved unclear in practice in the context of the content given. Compared to the proposal we are talking about today, we are assessing in the Slovenian National Party that, in fact, the law is expanding by authentic interpretation, and therefore we believe that we cannot accept this proposal on a legal basis and we will vote in favour of the decision. That's point one. Point two is very clear. This authentic interpretation was intended to draw attention to the many vague and vague content that this law offers to various consumers and to the various entities and facilities that are bound by the Copyright and Related Rights Act. I have witnessed many years of different attitudes and views. On the one hand, operators, on the other hand users. The fact is that the Law on Copyright and Related Rights needs to be corrected. Here the motioner is right. With this proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation, the Government warns any government that the law must be rectified as soon as possible to remedy the injustices. As far as I know the performers, on the other hand, the users, are all dissatisfied. Those who should receive the benefits from the law receive too little, and those who are obliged to pay such things pay too much. Let's ask ourselves, what's the difference between this money? In the Slovenian National Party, we will vote in favour of the conclusion that the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of the third paragraph of the Copyright and Related Rights Act is not suitable for further consideration or adoption. But we also warn on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, and we support in this part of the proposaler that the Government should, as soon as possible, go to the Copyright and Related Rights Act and wind it up and make it fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u122	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will decide on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 9th item of the agenda. We're moving to seven. At the outset, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Economic Companies within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the group of 16 Members and Members, with the first signed by Mrs Cveto Zalokar Orazem, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. There are no government representatives to explain. Given that we have saved a lot of time on time and that this may be the reason, I suggest that we wait five minutes and continue the meeting at 13:00 and 5 minutes. Mrs Radič, I'm sorry, there's no need to interrupt. We'll wait for them to come to the speaker stage in peace and accept the word. I give the word "magic." Darji Radič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy to present the Government's views on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the company law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u123	Thank you very much. First of all, I'm sorry I'm late, it's really not appropriate, but there's been a communication misunderstanding and unfortunately I haven't been informed about it. Introductory presentation of the Proposal for a Law on Economic Companies is my task. The proposal ZGD1C implements Directive 2007/36 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 July 2007 on the rights of listed shareholders in Slovenia. The main purpose of the directive is to remove obstacles that deter shareholders from voting and to facilitate and promote the cross-border exercise of voting rights. There is therefore a need for certain harmonisation at European Union level. In addition to these amendments and additions, the proposal also contains provisions concerning the regulation of the remuneration of members of the management or control bodies and the addition of provisions to the settlement committee. The main solutions relating to the implementation of the directive are as follows: first, the proposal complements, the content and publication of the Assembly’s call, then establishes a single cut-off day for participation in the Assembly. The Assembly will be able to attend and exercise its voting rights only by the shareholder who is registered as the shareholder in the central register of intangible securities at the end of the fourth working day prior to the meeting of the Assembly. Furthermore, the proposal will allow shareholders to participate and vote in the assembly by electronic means. The provisions on the shareholder’s right to consider an additional item on the agenda at the assembly and to put forward a counter-proposal and to inform the company thereof are also complementary. Shareholders of a public company will also be able to appoint an authority using electronic means. A person offering to represent an indefinite circle of people will be obliged to disclose conflicts of interest. The results of the vote will also have to be published on the Society’s websites within two days of the Assembly meeting, following a proposal for amendments to the law in the Assembly. The proposal, by supplementing the provisions of the obligations of the management of the Assembly, also lays down the obligation for the management of the Assembly to disclose all receipts of members of the management or control bodies for each member individually. This is another such big change. It will also be necessary to disclose the remuneration of members of management or control bodies in subsidiaries. All information will have to be updated in the annual report and will also be subject to an audit review. The proposal also provides that a remuneration policy may be decided in the Assembly. If the Assembly adopts a remuneration policy, all benefits will have to be in line with this policy. The proposal also newly prohibits members of the Supervisory Board from participating in the company's profits. The deadline for implementing the directive, which introduces certain rights of listed companies into Slovenia's legal order on 4 August 2009. We therefore expect these changes to be confirmed in time in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mrs. Radich. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak. [[He's not here.]] Mr Villa Trophynik will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u125	Nice greetings to all present! Thank you for your word. The Government forwarded to the National Assembly a proposal for a new Law on Economic Companies, which transposes the European Union Directive on the exercise of certain rights of listed shareholders into the Slovenian legal order. The main objective of the amendment to the Company Act is to complement or strengthen the principle of equal treatment of shareholders. However, during the main news in the Group, we would like to draw attention to the disclosure of the remuneration of members of administrations and supervisors and the restriction on the payment of awards to members of the supervisory boards from the profits of the company. The members of the Supervisory Board will not be entitled to take part in the profit after the new. Let us only draw attention to the unacceptable practice so far when there has been an absurdly high increase in meetings and the payment of prizes based on the profits generated by companies. Only supervisors of five large state-owned companies - Nova Ljubljanska banka, Posta Slovenije, Telekom Slovenije, Luka Koper and Nova banka Maribor - earned over EUR 200,000 in one year from this title. Not to mention the prizes that are to be paid to the supervisors of the New Ljubljana Bank and should amount to around 250 000 euros on informal information. The aim of the amendment is therefore to ensure greater transparency in the remuneration of members of administrations and management. According to the proposal, the management of the company at the meeting, at which shareholders will decide on the consumption of the balance sheet profit, will have to present the remuneration received by members of the management and control bodies for the performance of the company's tasks in the previous financial year. These data will also have to be included in the company’s annual report, which will be subject to an audit review. The information will have to include the remuneration of each member of the management or control body individually and be broken down into different remunerations, from participation in profits to other awards and reimbursements of costs and any other payments. The management will also have to provide the shareholders with information on the remuneration acquired by members of the management or control bodies for the performance of tasks in subsidiaries. The proposed amendment allows shareholders to determine at the Assembly the remuneration policy of the members of the management and control bodies. If the members of the congregation receive a remuneration policy, all benefits will have to be in line with this congregation’s policy or decision. As a result of the increasing rewards and high management salaries, in most countries the world has opened up debates about the eligibility of these benefits. Especially in these times of crisis, when rewards and wages do not depend on how good or bad the company operates. In addition, the professional public has found that the current system for regulating the award of managers stimulates some specific management behaviour, which is short-term, risky and promotes moral gambling, rewards success and does not punish failures, in our case in particular some of the leaders in financial institutions. It is therefore necessary to disclose the remuneration of managers and determine the procedure for determining their height. For these reasons, we will truly support the amendment of the law in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I'm asking you if anyone objects to my decision to give the word mags. A visionary who had an obligation in the lobby while he was supposed to be on his way? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Vice-President for your kindness and your Members and Members for your kindness. Unfortunately, I misjudged, I thought he'd be out in one minute, according to the prognosis, the case is over, and the press is increasingly interested in what one thinks. So, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this opportunity to present the position of the Group of Members on this novel act on companies. As you know, during the previous mandate, all economic legislation in the Republic of Slovenia was recast, and a new company law was adopted, which, for the first time, brought economic, legal regulation fully into line with the directives of the European Union. However, we also knew at that time that in the field of company law in the European Union there are constant changes in the meaning of some single market operation, that there are differences between national solutions and that, in order to ensure the smooth functioning of companies, no matter where they are established within the European Union, they want to operate, they have businesses. It's some kind of economic law unification. The solution is before us and there is always a need for readjustment. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not see any problems with this part of the law relating to the implementation of European Union directives into the Slovenian legal order. We have also observed some other ambitions of this law in one way or another, in a happy or unhappy way. Our economic law is becoming more and more shaped in some way as well as some anti-crisis, anti-Takkun law. It is right that we are also dealing with some of the current problems, some of the deviants and try to eliminate them through laws, but we must bear in mind that this does not harm those companies that have never dealt with so-called Taiwanese businesses or with any abuse and do not intend to deal with them. Here we need to weigh whether some regulation through the Company Act is mostly restricting or liberating, or is an exaggerated norm of more problems than benefits. As a result, there are still a lot of these things that we can fix, upgrade or even eliminate in the follow-up procedure when we talk about this part of the law that is not related to the implementation of the Directives. An interesting provision where awards are limited or restricts the possibility of the Supervisory Board participating in the division of profits. This is a very attractive solution in view of the current time, but we must be very correct, whether we expect responsibility from the Supervisory Board and responsibility to be fulfilled also by appropriate participation, or whether we expect only one side from the Supervisory Board and from the administrations of both salaries. I think that both administrations and supervisory councils must be very accountable to their societies and to their mission and that they must not be differently rewarded for this. This is where this different approach is introduced. So if the Supervisory Councils have nothing to do with participating in profit, then they probably don't have much to do with the responsibility to create just that. This is actually one such dilemma that I kind of open up here, although, of course, the solution is to limit these awards, liked and exactly written on the skin of the time that we are in. The second thing to be pointed out is that some standards are relatively unclear, that the Legislative and Legal Service is also likely to be aware of this and that several amendments will need to be adopted more or less editorially. However, it is very interesting that what we have been informed by all the members of the Group of Small Shareholders on this proposal, some of the provisions which are in this law have nothing to do with the Directives, but have a significant impact on the rights of shareholders, small shareholders and are, in fact, in some ways incomprehensible. For example, I will count three of these: limiting the liability of third parties that cause harm to shareholders is Article 264. Then, the intervention in shareholders' rights, particularly when we talk about their information, is actually making it difficult to inform shareholders. In particular, small shareholders are the most vulnerable. There is also transparency between transactions or transactions between related persons of one company. So, these are one thing that is likely to be highlighted by the next procedure of this law, and it is right to try to respond properly here, to find arguments for such solutions as they are now. So, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will undermine the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration, but in this initial presentation I have already indicated the fields where further explanation of the solutions will be needed, perhaps also to correct them and to go against the Association of Small Shareholders, which I think the quality texts have also proposed some good solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor to present the views of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u129	This path, too, is our attitude towards the proposal that the Government has put into practice. We are only wondering, by the way, why a general debate was needed when there are some more fundamental differences in the reasons, principles and objectives that we want to achieve in this regard. This is probably not to be observed, and perhaps today's debate will also show that there are more details of differences than in the principle of rejecting this amendment proposed. It is true that what we see in the proposal for amendments somehow corresponds to the current situation, both with us and with the world. However, it must be said that the weaknesses we see in us and elsewhere are not the reason for these changes. The directive that we are going to follow has, in fact, been created almost two years ago, and therefore there are reasons for this to be done in the European Union a long time ago, and that, in fact, we are only following it if we are not even a few. If we had previously made such amendments to the company law, perhaps even less disturbing today, less abuse and less political accusation between different political parties, which are not necessarily just the opposition-coalition. In the DeSUS Group, we will support this proposal for several reasons. One reason is for sure that we assess the need to implement and comply with European legislation as soon as possible. The second reason is to assess that once it is changed, now, in view of this way, as is now suggested, we will have only a few better conditions for working in companies, in companies in shares, to decide and direct the operation of these companies, and that we will have more opportunities and more corrective information options. Information always provides better control. However, there is also a slightly more competence for the Assembly, i.e. for representatives of owners, and thus we can also solidarity in the DeSUS Group. So far, there have been some weaknesses, so to speak, so to speak. As small shareholders have already been mentioned today, we feel that this unequal situation is improving with these proposed changes. We estimate that there will be more opportunities for information and for impact on decisions. We estimate that if these proposals, which are proposed, are to be expected to be slightly more regulated, but that this additional regulation will not result, with its administrative and other negative consequences, in the harm to the improvement of this legislation as a whole, and in the choices made by individual authorities, in particular the management of these companies. The overall positive effect, we estimate, may be greater than some weaknesses which, due to additional determinations, may show additional reflections. What will be most noticeable to the public is not the new competences that shareholders have, not exactly the information procedures, but the new deadlines set by the proposed amendments, but in particular the impact on the disclosure of the remuneration of those who run individual companies. We also consider this to be right, we support this, and we feel that it can also have a little impact on what the Government wanted to achieve with its recommendations, but on the most fruitful soil, these recommendations, or seeds, which it has not achieved this year. So, if this helps to make what the Government already has to do with self-restraint, with regard to taking into account some moral values, ethics, business responsibilities, then the changes to the Company Act will certainly have an impact on the future, which we will be able to see as positive. Therefore, the DeSUS Group will also support these proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u131	Secondly, thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we will support, in particular from a moral point of view, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Companies in First Instance. From a moral point of view, because Article 8 is laid down and the provisions of Article 9 are fair. We all know that these are unfortunately political decisions at this time, but they are fair. However, we note that the medal always has two rewards; it is really inappropriate for members of the Supervisory Boards, the Supervisory Boards to be profited and rewarded with a share in the profits. But it is also true that they must be rewarded honestly for their work. That's how we all have to be honest. Not only are we looking at a digital picture, 01, but the supervisors used to share profits and have huge revenues, deserved or not, we're going to judge ourselves, but today we're going to take everything away from them. For the first time, this is not the case because they are and are supposed to be members of the boards and boards of directors, people who have some knowledge, people who are not their employees. These are the people who, in my opinion, are honest people, according to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, who are supposed to do their work honestly, whose aim is to oversee the work of the institutions in which the supervisors are, for the first time, and for the second time, to care for the good functioning of all these institutions. And they must be rewarded for such a work. Rewarded with certain definitions, not rewarded with a share in profit. We also assess in the Slovenian National Party that Article 9 is meant and written well, but we note that we will support the first reading, the Government, the drafter, that he should be very careful in this article. In fact, the key question is what? We can now have more scrutiny, more control with Article 9. We can regulate the principle of fairness with Article 9, but I ask the proposer, what about the contracts, these contracts in Article 9, namely contracts concluded with the Presidents of the administrations? Article 9 does everything, but we will not be able to refer to retroactivity, which means that we will be in the same condition as it is today. So, we all know that something is wrong, we all know that in these times it does not work that way, but it is a contract that was concluded with one of the gentlemen, I will not say the name and surname, because it is not the only one, I am sorry that we are only getting on it, there are a lot of them that have got the same or more money, but the contract has just been so determined and the reference to retroactivity, today is Wednesday, jalo's work. This provision on what contracts should be with the Presidents of the Administration to be included in Article 9 is missing from now on. I hope you will respect, I may not be right, but I believe I am right to regulate the status of this contract. Then there will be no more problems, because we can make transparency 100%, as it says, I will not read it, because you have seen it in Article 9, as now in the assembly that decides on the consumption of the profit balance sheet, the management must inform shareholders of the receipts of the members of the management or control bodies that they have received in order to carry out their duties in society in the past year. Information shall include benefits for each member of the supervisory authority. It must be broken down into fixed, variable benefits, participation in profits, options, other awards, reimbursement of costs, insurance premiums, etc. But we say nothing, either in this article or in this law, what is the matter with contracts and nothing helps if a contract with one member of the administration is signed for a million or two euros, if we have this article. Otherwise, we also assess in the Slovenian National Party, because, in fact, the assessment and purpose, the assessment of the situation and the reasons and the purpose of this law is clear, it is a matter of adapting to European legislation, even though some of us have here, we are obliged to look at what others consider, especially the Association of Small Shareholders, the big comments when they have also taken a look at the review of this law and have found that a large part of the coordination with European legislation in this law is summarised under Austrian law, but that some of the content that the Austrian legislation has clearly linked to small shareholders is: we have some of these articles from the Austrians in particular, and some of them have been released and some of them will also complain about, of course, that they have, clearly, all the right. However, since our objective and our desire to have this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Companies in the second reading are to be prepared in a way that achieves its purpose with all the comments or wishes they have, and to be adopted as uniformly as possible and thus regulates the transparency of content that is very critical today, it is also imperative to listen to all the actors that are bound by this Act. The Slovenian national party, as has already been said, will support the first reading of this bill, in particular through a proposal to regulate Article 9 and to regulate the issue of contracts, which will also be reflected in the magnetogram, with the hope and desire that the Government will include this comment, as well as the comments of colleagues and colleagues who have already submitted them and who will still be included in the second proposal. I am also sure that the Law-Legal Service will add itss. At the same time, we support all those comments by others affected, I have already mentioned small shareholders, and who else will show up, and we expect the Government to understand and take due account of the comments if they are justified or we will understand that some also cannot be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! European company law is very dynamic; new or amended regulations and directives already adopted are constantly being adopted. All of this, of course, also affects national legislation. This year, the deadline for the implementation of Directive 2007/36 on the exercise of certain rights of listed shareholders. The main solutions to the amendment relate to the content and manner of publication of the Assembly and to the introduction of an electronic way of doing business, namely the publication of the Assembly's calls and materials on the Internet and the participation and voting of the Assembly by means of electronic means. Important news, which does not stem from the requirement for the implementation of the European Directive, relates to the payment to members of the Supervisory Board, the further introduction to the Assembly of the remuneration of members of the management and control bodies, and the possibility of setting a remuneration policy for members of the management and control bodies by the Assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the direction and solutions provided for in Articles 8 and 9. The participation of the members of the Supervisory Board in the company's profits may be in conflict of interest with the tasks the Supervisory Board as such has, and we therefore support this solution. It is right that the Assembly or the Statute of the Supervisory Board is allowed for their work to arrange the provision of payment to members of the Supervisory Board for their work, as this makes it possible to professionalise the work of the members of the Supervisory Board. It has turned out that reflection in this direction is more than necessary and this extension is considered a good opportunity to achieve higher standards of operation of the supervisory boards. Given the strange state of the spirit, some of the excellent receipts of members of administrations in the SLS Group support the proposed solution that the public should be informed of the receipts of members of management and control bodies and that this information should be published in the company's annual report. We also support a solution that gives the Assembly the basis for shaping the remuneration policy of members of management. Thus, it will be possible to prevent many of the unreasonable imbalances that we are witnessing today. Such a solution also strengthens or strengthens the owner’s responsibility to operate the company in some way, as its responsibility does not cease with the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board, who then act independently and have no formal influence on them. A little greater responsibility in the SLS is required and defended all the time, and this solution will avoid situations where responsibility is transferred from the owner to the supervisory board and vice versa, so when no one knows who is drinking and who pays. Next. We welcome a more precise and clear regulation of the powers of representation in the Assembly, but in the case of the authorisation of a natural or legal person by the shareholder in the case of the acquisition of powers through the offer to an indefinite range of shareholders, we ask whether an arrangement which does not provide for a time limit on the power to exercise voting rights is indeed the most appropriate. I ask the representative of the Government why the content of Articles 21 and 22 in relation to the governing rules is, as regulated in Article 23, in the case of financial organisations? Does it, in itself, take into account that the Commissioners referred to in Articles 21 and 22 and 308a, respectively, have to obtain powers and instructions for each congregation individually, or can they collect powers for indefinite periods without mandatory instructions? At this time, let me call on the Government, the coalition and all those who have supported the amendments to the First Treatment Insurance Act at the previous meeting of the National Assembly to consider resolving the issue of the Commissioners at the Mutual Insurance Assemblys, in terms of the reference to the provisions of the ZGD, which we are currently discussing and adopting. We do not see any obstacle in the SLS Group that the problem would not be solved in the same way. In the SLS Group, we will support the proposed law as a suitable basis for further consideration and, according to the Government's answers to our questions, we will also propose possible additions and changes to this novel if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the LDS Group or Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u135	Nicely greeted. Economic status law is only one of the uninteresting and dry legal areas for most people. However, economic law is one of the hearts of the capitalist system and is still somehow linked, for example, to the various anomalies that have been particularly revealed during the global financial and economic crisis. Even in Slovenia, where the crisis is likely to close the transition period. For this period, however, due to objective reasons, it is also characterized by a lack of preconceptive and sophisticated company law, which, which is good, has evolved evolutionaryly to a better end until today. Thus, legal inconsistencies and shortcomings within this legal area and the potential for their misuse are becoming less and less consistent. In the LDS, we are also assessing the proposed amendment to the Economic Companies Act as an evolutionary improvement of our economic status law, while introducing additional elements of economic law bonification within the European Union. In the LDS, we welcome the paper under consideration, which strengthens the principle of equal treatment of shareholders, awareness of shareholders and minority rights of shareholders in the exercise of voting rights in shareholders' assemblies. The novelty shall, in particular, bring the added content and manner of publication of a reference to the Assembly, the publication of a reference and other relevant information for the assembly on the company’s websites, the establishment of a reference day for participation in the assembly, the possibility for participation in the assembly by electronic means, the possibility of voting by post before the assembly meeting, the addition of provisions on the right of the shareholder to consider an additional item on the agenda at the assembly and the setting up of a counter-proposal, and the publication of the results of voting on the company’s website. According to the LDS, the new law introduces a significant improvement that will overcome the conflict of interest, which has often led to the presence of existing managers. The new law provides that persons who are offered as an agent but are not proposed by the shareholders themselves must disclose in writing all the circumstances which are relevant to shareholders in assessing the risk in order to enable the authorising officer to act in an interest which is different from that of shareholders. The novel sets out when this conflict can occur when the proposed authority is a majority shareholder of the company and the supervised person, when it comes to a leading employee of the company, an auditor or a smaller family member. Officials who may be in conflict of interest must provide information and a statement on this to shareholders in writing. In short, if such Commissioners do not have guidance on how to vote on a particular matter, they will not be allowed to vote at their discretion. It is this present inadequacy that has often been exploited and abused. In the LDS, two other solutions are highlighted by the new law. The Novela removes the possibility of members of the Supervisory Board participating in the company's profits. Such a solution is also shared in the professional public and is likely to receive attention and further consideration of this novel. In the LDS, however, we are inclined and assess that the second solution that gives the Assembly the power to determine the remuneration policy of the members of the management or control bodies in society. The remuneration policy of members of management or control bodies may mean to set the limits of salaries, awards, departures, other remunerations, options for shares, etc. It is in this area that the current financial and economic crisis has also revealed great anomalies in us. It is certainly necessary to give the owner an additional opportunity to determine the remuneration policy for managers and members of the Supervisory Board, if they so wish. In the LDS, however, we expect the country to use this option as its owner or shareholder. In addition, in the LDS, we agree with the Government's assessment that such a solution does not prejudice the powers of the Supervisory Board or the Management Board in finalising the total remuneration of the members of the administration or the Executive Director. The bill brings so much important news that in LDS we want their implementation as soon as possible. As we assess that the bill is more than appropriate for further consideration, we will also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Group of the Social Democrats agrees with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Companies. The law introduces changes in the legal order of Slovenia, which work in the interests of small shareholders and protects them to a certain extent. This is the most important and true goal for us. Amendments to Directive 11/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council Seven. In particular, 2007 is a way of citing a shareholder assembly, facilitating the voting of shareholders, talking about voting via mail or electronic media, and facilitating procedures for the appointment of an authorising officer. Since all these measures introduce only greater clarity in the Assembly’s own call and progress and are already limitedly added to the interests of small shareholders, they are undoubtedly positive measures that will increase the influence of small shareholders or, more importantly, reduce the dominant influence of large shareholders. In addition to the law being transposed by the directive, the proposal also imposes a ban on the participation of members of supervisory authorities in the company's profits. This proposal is undoubtedly in line with the current situation in the economy, as it has been shown several times over the past period that members of the supervisory authorities have received enormous and unjustifiable awards which were not conditional on their work. All right, for this reason, and for the sake of greater transparency, the proposal also imposes the obligation of company management, to report on the remuneration of the management and control authorities in the company. The fact is that this Regulation will force all members of the management and control bodies to be more exposed to the disclosure of their remuneration in order to carry out their functions. And, with due respect, if this regulation had been in force before, there would probably not have been some controversial rewards for individuals permitted by the law so far, and probably even during this economic crisis there would not have been such bile debates, particularly by the opposition. For all the reasons mentioned above, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Economic Companies in the First reading of the Group of Social Democrats, since we are confident that, in addition to its harmonisation with European law, it will bring into Slovenia a more transparent functioning of the bodies of companies and will enable small shareholders to be informed and to participate in the meetings of companies and their share is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The first one has the word Mr Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State! In one word, I would like to take away the feelings we have today in the Really Group, and that is - finally! It finally happened. We are finally amending the law and allow greater transparency over financial transactions, especially in state-owned companies. If memory does not deceive us, it is in the party that at the time of the pre-election campaign we have been very much alerted to the unfair system of awarding, creating the income of managers, and even in our panels we have written some interesting and very eloquent data. Well, at the time we were getting some readings, cynical comments, czech, because you are all the same, because when the government happens and you win and you meet the supervisory councils and administrations, everything will remain the way it is. Well, today we can also prove to the public and to the voters that we have moved forward to finally end this practice. In fact, to incorporate into the law changes that strongly and clearly ensure the transparency of all transactions and also contracts, because once we disclose the revenues of managers and members of administrations, we are in fact pointing a new direction, and this is - transparency also in the preparation and conclusion of contracts. Of course, we had to await the European Union directive. The European Union expresses what the world public requires in times of crisis, a recession that fostered the very imprudentness of finances. From this experience, even at the recent G-20 meeting, it has been demonstrated that we cannot continue to do so. That this lack of transparency is actually the first factor in the financial crisis and economic recession. That's why it's a big day. The day when, at last, we make it possible not only for the economy but also for the public to be transparent and indirectly able to influence the further development of the system, either rewards, or to determine the remuneration of the members of the administrations. At the same time, this amendment of the law is a guarantee for equal treatment of all shareholders, and thus the first to be favoured by this legal amendment will be small shareholders. And of course, I understand the demand and the suggestion to take them into account in all further procedures. But it is in these changes that the mechanisms are in place to ensure this justice and equality. A few questions, some dilemmas have been raised regarding supervisors and the fact that supervisors will no longer benefit from the profit line. Clearly, look at what has been happening in our largest state-owned companies! I know I repeat myself, but look what happened in Luka Koper, what happened in Intereuropa, what happened in other state-owned companies! Were those rewards and profits shared among supervisors justified? Unfortunately, the Governing Council has such a role to play where any consideration of rewards based on the logic of profit borders on that very risky line of corruption, corruption and, in a number of cases, we could probably find something like this. Probably what is happening in some state-owned companies is not just a case, but it comes from the grey foxes of the previous reward system. And who supported that system? We must not make any special illusions here, because today all the parties to this House support such a change for hygiene reasons. Who, though, would dare to oppose such suggestions? No one: Of course, because at the next election we would have been burned. But in the previous term, things were going on that were at the border or that were "crossing the Rubicon" of morality and were extremely immoral. You know that only the supervisors of five large state-owned companies - Nova Ljubljanska banka, Posta Slovenije, Telekom Slovenije, Luka Koper, NKBM - earned €1.21 million in one year from this title. Not to mention the prizes that are to be paid to the supervisors of the New Ljubljana Bank and amount to EUR 250 000 according to informal information. Not to mention the famous Kramar Prize and probably other cases that we do not mention here because we do not know them. It is interesting to read some more information about how in the previous term awards increased from 2004 to 2007, even by 1,563% in the case of Nova Ljubljanska banka, in the case of Post Slovenia by 813%, in Telekom by 767%, in Luka Koper by 647%. I wonder how this could have happened, and if it wasn't the same behaviour that accelerated the financial crisis and economic recession, so was global and local behaviour. In fact, they received significantly more than the average salary of an ordinary worker from the meetings and awards that increased in an incredible way. There's still some interesting information that I could give here, but it's a back story. It is good to note this, for without this historical memory of what was actually happening, we would not understand why such a law or such a change of law is necessary. So once again as a member of a party that is, I don't know if it's the first, but certainly the most confident and striking point to these injustices, let me once again express my satisfaction, because this is the real shift. It is probably just a case of this happening right now when there is once again a public debate on transparency, transparency of business, reprogrammed loans that are controversial for the tycoons, while other companies, particularly smaller companies, probably do not have such bonuses and such privileges. So, this has to be done with your head up. We're not afraid of that. We have tried as a party and as a coalition to actually meet the needs, demands and expectations of the public, not because of populist or demagogic movements, but because it is a necessity in these times of crisis and recession. If this recession and this crisis are not addressed in this way, the war with the crisis is lost. The war on the crisis begins here, with these changes that must continue to be as transparent as possible and to the end of such shameful rewards and salaries as managers have brought some state-owned enterprises to the bottom. In Luka Koper, managers got between €15 and €17,000 a month, and they still get it today. I don't understand what and I don't understand why something like this can happen in the fact that these societies are now slowly going down or into a serious crisis. With these changes, we will instill a wave that could justify the resentment and even anger of workers, workers, citizens and citizens towards this coalition and to this government. Let them know and see today that this government is acting consistently and concretely. I will therefore vote with great conviction and satisfaction for the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Yuri. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I have to say, I'm almost laughing. I'm not going to talk so "triumphally" about this law, even though it's interesting. I support him, I said it in the introductions. It is also supported by the parliamentary group. But now the world will be overrun by him, and I don't share such hopes. Nor do I want to overturn this day, which is so important, is said to be because it seems from all those applicants of general treatment so historically this day only to one who has just spoken and others are missing, all of them. I would say, let's balance the enthusiasm of this law and maybe we can figure out not exactly which party she proposed and which will then cut flowers, but what does it really bring us. That is why I would rather draw attention to two, perhaps, flaws that actually relate to the argument that the Government has contributed to the explanations. The explanations, I think, are weak, but we'll probably be able to fix that when we're working on the bodies. For example, where there is talk, and today this has already been exposed several times to the fact that members of the Supervisory Boards will no longer have the right to participate in the division of profits. The explanation says, "That's right. And that's it. So there's no argument as to why it's necessary, what flaws, what good does it do? And that's probably what's necessary for the debate. It is necessary to say what we are promising with this and why we actually wrote it. The other thing that I also think is weak, and the debates on the committees will probably still need to be corrected, is that, although it is important for me that these revenues, public revenue, may not even be the most important thing. It is important that it also be revealed in connection with other subsidiaries, as one of our logs yesterday reported on the incomes of double officials, which is also right if it is about double officials, and if it is about multiple directors and supervisors, then it does not bother us, but more importantly what it says about proportionality. Also, this proportionality around these payments, these benefits are nowhere detailed enough to say, "Ah, now we have the criteria for this proportionality." That's exactly what I wanted to point out. If this is not already in explanation, perhaps later we will get it in the form of some rules, send and so on, that we will have the tool in our hands to think with and which will later serve us in assessing what we promise. And above all these two; those first sentences were more of a joke, I think a colleague won't get too angry; these two I had in mind, above all, that maybe the government representatives would somehow impress themselves with the memory and convince us on the committee what needs to be done in this area, so that we can safely claim that we are right when we support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u143	In view of the fact that I have already stated in the recital that, once again, I stress that the Slovenian National Party will support in the first reading the proposal of the law under consideration and that we will also support this and, above all, in a moral sense, I would like to help the Government with the next thought. I have already said several times, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, that I am very sorry that our business arrangements are such that the Legislative and Legal Service cannot interfere and participate in the first reading of the legislation. I think it would be very good to think about those who will reshape the Rules of Procedure. However, I am convinced that the legislative branch of the Authority will certainly, the Legislative and Legal Service, I apologize, be included in the novelty of Article 9, in paragraphs 5 and 6 of Article 9. These are the dots I read a little while ago. In fact, you will see that it is probably already, although it is of substantive importance, that other laws include other legal provisions, and I am sure that there will be a warning, which will say that the fifth and sixth paragraphs of Article 9, which are newly added to this law, do not belong to the law in this form. It's just my warning. Why? Because I've been asking myself a little bit, some people are already convinced that it belongs to the Law on the Guarantee of Secrets and Other Data, etc., and I'm not going to elaborate. This is just a warning and a help to the Government in drafting the text of the law for second reading. I would also point out to the Government that; when we do not work too hard; that the issues of expulsion, the design of control councils and the actual inputs are, therefore, those parts, on which some consider that they are forgotten in the context of the creation of this law on the basis of the European directives. I believe that you are much more taught about this content, that you have looked much more closely at compliance with European directives and European legislation. However, I believe that certain elements have certainly escaped and that a number of comments will also be made on these content. Once again, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I propose to the Government that, in drawing up the text of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Companies in the Second Reading, it examine the appropriateness or inadequacy of the new paragraphs 5 and 6 of Article 9, and to take note of the information we have given in the recital on Article 8, on the regulation of the transparency of contracts with the Presidents of the Administration and, once again, on the fair payment not to share profits, but on the fair payment of the work of supervisors. Because we need to understand that overseers care for good, quality and proper business and that they are rewarded for their work. I stress once again, not by dividing the profits, but by the reward for the work done. On the other hand, we may also become insensitive, reluctant to work as overseers, and of course with this bad business, and we will do nothing again. So much to help the government design a text for a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u144	Thank you. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Anton Anderlich. He's not here either. Mr. Franz Puksich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Nice greeting to the government's representatives! Amendment of the Companies Act is necessary. And with these changes, some things will change for the better, even if we know that members of the supervisory councils will not be able or have the opportunity to receive various awards and so on. However, as has already been said today, the real government has finally come and is now enacting legislation. Good morning. These are the colors of the government we have had in the last 12 years, we have had a different government for 4 years, and it wasn't all wrong before and not all four years, but a lot of this legislation, which has created so-called tycoons, which have created uncovered credits, which have created a lot of untransparentness, intransparency, was based on the 12-year legislation. The original sin of all this even stems from the 1994 amendment of the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, when the then ruling LDS policy at the helm said that all those who were convicted would change the law and not be punished, such as Uroš Aljančič, Elan and so on. Well, look where we got this today. This crime started at the time. Even with the adopted TAM Rehabilitation Act in this Chamber, I don't think the LDS and SD were in power at the time, and it was even 9 billion. Today, there is no need to give so much glory to this amendment of the Company Act, but it is necessary and it is good that it is. However, colleagues and colleagues, if you think seriously, those who are in power, who have scissors and canvas in their hands, should grab the bull by the horns, then we should have it slightly differently or slightly more extensively, namely, that you are definitely lacking in this package, and that is a shame, and I am only talking about preparing for the second reading a parallel amendment to the Tax Procedure Act, in particular to what I am warning you about; as I am already the previous government that I will not be unjust; to the origin of the property. No government wants to look, that is, through the Tax Procedure Act, the origin of property, except for Members, Members, Municipal Councillors, Mayors, etc., who have nothing anyway. But you don't understand them in Europe, because there are too many or too many political parties supporting you, too much co-financing, and maybe some of the colleagues sitting here in the hall are in some secret owner or paper owner, etc. Indeed, this law is urgently needed to correct or make such that, of course, the source of the property will be easily proved by the one who has it. But he proved that he paid taxes either in his country, here or abroad. And if he pays in one of the countries of duty, it's traceability and then, of course, it's not a problem. But if there's no trace, then there's either a theft or a cover-up. Stealing or embezzlement, of course, is a crime and it does not get a million rewards, but it gets a prison. And another marriage, the financial police - it's high time to come out with him: to have a chance, so one is classified data, to protect personal data, and the other is to protect the confidentiality of criminals. And I don't think that's necessary, and this is an option that needs to be given to the financial police in order to be able to detect all these shit that's going on. Above all, colleagues and colleagues, all those monopolistic directors of state-owned enterprises in which the state has majority ownership, must be brought to the table to show how [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. Mr. Alexander Ravnikar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. In today's moral case, it is about harmonising the Company Act with the European Community Directive, of which we have been members since 2007. So it's not all that time we've just listened to, and it's not about getting into this debate with stories of that guy, as we remember from the elementary school, what I know about horses, horses graze in the garden, there's vegetables and grass growing in the garden, there's apples and plums growing in the fruit tree. That's all I know about the horse. I have witnessed such debates now. I would therefore like to support the Government in its intention to harmonise the Company Act with this amendment to the 2007 directive in such a way that I will give up the discussion further because I have not heard any such proposal in it so far, which would require any input or addition of this proposed material. I hope that the Government will follow the objective of harmonising our regulation of the situation of companies within a time frame, in which case public companies will, in particular, be aligned with European Community legislation within the time limit set by the directive itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u149	Nicely greeted! It's true, threats across the board, all managers are dangerous, members of the control boards are "corrupted" and so on. We're not going anywhere with these statements. I agree and will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Economic Companies. The amendments are such as to facilitate the voting of shareholders, to facilitate the appointment of Commissioners, which introduces greater transparency and to increase the impact on small shareholders as well. In fact, it is high time that members of the Supervisory Boards were prevented from participating in the profits of the company and thus prevented the payment of awarded enormous prizes, which are by no means deserved. This order will also contribute, among other things, to the transparency of the remuneration of supervisors, says it is right to receive a reward for the work done, the meetings and the like. I've been in control of Hit for quite some time. A company that was once full of money and so on, but I assure you there were no enormous rewards, that there were meetings, that there were never any such matters that might have caused you to sleep badly today. This depends also on the administration and the management of such a company. As soon as the company started going bad at all, there were no awards and so on. This provision will, of course, also contribute to the transparent functioning of the economic authorities, which is important. I think that the law will contribute to the resolution of many such current conflicts in society today, and it will be possible to resolve exactly what I said earlier that not all those who work honestly in the supervisory councils, in societies, managers, etc. they are trying to make the company operate in these difficult times, which is normal, that they will not be treated the same way as those who deserve to play and act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Miroslav Klun has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u151	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. It's been given to me for a very short time, and that's why I can't tell you all about it. Otherwise, I would say: the amendment of this Act on Economic Companies - as much as it is important to harmonise with the directives of the European Union, it is important that some order, some transparency and some control over the performance of these companies are introduced into our system of companies. That's all I'd say. There are many things that will improve the system in this area. However, it seems important to me that all these comments, which were made at the last moment by the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders, should be taken into account, considered and very subtlely incorporated into the system in order to satisfy all these spheres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well welcomed, Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament. The update of the Economic Society Act is very important, which is what I have already proposed to the President of the Government, Mr Pahor, at the October session. For if this change were to take place immediately, there would not be such acts as have now been done. In fact, we later fix the law before paying off certain people high, fabulous rewards; but this is probably also an incentive to actually fix the law comprehensively. It is important that we actually fix it thoroughly, but by no means just some kind of inserts, because if we just fix certain inserts, then we will make a big win. Therefore, it is important that we all really step together and make a law that will, in fact, be properly guided for a long time in order to avoid the so-called tycoons who take taxpayers' money into their own pockets. It is also important to join forces to ensure that the Ministry of the Economy and its portfolio takes into account all proposals that will take into account the criteria for reduction. We must not forget the small shareholders, for small shareholders are somehow excluded in this work. Here it is important to look very wide at all things so that there will be no big comments again or found holes, where and how someone could take some money. But it's not right for all people to throw in one basket. I hope that people don't think or think that way when they speak in general, and that those people who act properly, who act well on purpose, don't throw themselves into the same basket. It is also important that we do not have bad overseers if we make a bad marriage again. I absolutely agree that the Supervisory Councils cannot possibly be involved in profit. Let them have appropriate meetings, have proper supervision expertise and then see no reason for these supervisory boards or administrations to operate poorly. However, it is important to make a legal provision so that those people who are in the boards and oversight councils are actually responsible for their actions. But there's no way that if you come into the control world, the company wants to protect your actions. This does not belong anywhere, but at least not in this country. I think anyone who decides who's capable of these things has to do these things on their own and protect them, not that these companies are protecting him from these things. That is why I believe that in the second reading, we will still fix certain things and make this law truly for a good law that will be properly adjusted in the long run. I am very proud and support that we have come to a change of law and that it will be done in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. It is high time to accept these novels. We have already pointed out this in the party before the elections, the highly paid meetings and also the abnormal awards that have emerged in recent times and even before. In fact, we can't stand to see that rich guys are doing each other favors. Where the state is the owner, it must intervene, and there is more than one mantra about not involving the state in the economy. The state must protect its property, protect the taxpayer's money and interfere with all legal means, from criminals, the police to the prosecution.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mrs Breda Pecan, Mr Ljubo Germič, Mr Tomaž Tom Mencinger, has the floor. You won't, you're giving up?Oh, my God! Daniel Krivec, Janko Weber, Mr. Janez Fish? Not at all. Damian Perne, mag. Borut Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I must say, I will be happy to support this marriage. It means that step from words to actions. We heard those disappointments who spent four years thinking, talking, and doing nothing. Every step in the right direction, if it is even smaller, is good and correct, so congratulations to the Ministry. However, it is certainly in the field of economic law, a living story where certain things will always be revealed, which we need to deal with in the future with legislation. One fact is that the wage-reward ratios in this country have already collapsed. There is nothing wrong with the management, the manager or the supervisor having a few times the average salary if only all of his employees have a job, a job, a regular salary and a salary that allows them a decent and normal survival. In these days, an article came to my attention in the media; the names of the more important Slovenian company, I do not want to mention, but the three-member management of the company paid over a million euros in gross rewards and benefits last year, which is about 3.5 times the gross profit of the company before taxes. It is also interesting that the Multi-Member Supervisory Board also exceeded the pre-tax profit for, say, 400 000 euros in gross rewards and benefits. It is simply things that are disproportionate and unacceptable, so I am glad that we have finally come from words to action. This is certainly the first small step in the right direction, but I am sure that it is not the last step in this mandate. And if I asked the President of the Government this morning, if we provide sufficient resources to establish a national investigative bureau, which will also deal with the second part of the economic story, and if we link all of this to this mosaic, I am sure that we will have a successful and wide-ranging euro, which we will still need in companies during the investment crisis, for development, instead of in bank accounts where it is necessary: either in production or in labour pockets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivo Wiggle has the floor. Dejan Levanic. Mr. Guido Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Look, in the Slovenian People's Party we will support this law, but we will support it because there are no other better options at this time, but we need to act. As far as controls are concerned, the question arises to me if we have inspections in our country, why we should not also have professionally supervised supervisors; supervisors who would be well paid in proportion to the country's income, in proportion to the rest of the developed world and Europe, in order to do this business, but not to discuss how supervisors could possibly be involved in profits and similar things. Also to prevent this network; the network, when I am a director in one company, is supervised in another and we work towards each other or work kindly, but you have seen this kindness where it has led. It has to be said that not all managers and supervisors are in one basket. It is also good to say that it happened that we had these quasi-good managers, quasi-good company leaders, especially in these state-owned companies, which were then exhausted to the end, did such damage, which I can say is also a damage which can also be reflected in the security situation of the Republic of Slovenia itself. Because I don't know how long people are going to put up with this, and it can also happen in Slovenia street. These entrepreneurs certainly cannot be reconciled with entrepreneurs who run or run such good companies as Krka. Krka is certainly performing on the world market, the farm is relentless and there will also be no way and it cannot be thought in this direction to limit wages, because there will indeed be a crisis for the good leaders of these companies. I would also like to experience in this country those thoughts and desires that were when we decided for a state of our own. I was young at the time and they said we were going to the Scandinavian type country, the country of Sweden, the country of Denmark with a great social sense with the right redistribution, but look where we brought this matter to Slovenia. Why we did not then decide that all wages, all matters will be settled as much as they are up; we would throw on the scale the gross social product of the Republic of Slovenia, the gross social product of these countries and here somewhere in the middle. At that time, we could have arranged this matter in a much different way. Today, though, it seems to me that what we are doing is what we are doing now, and it will take some time to water more or less on the ashes, on the slopes, but not to put out the quality of the fire that has ignited in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u160	Mr. Lois Posedel has the floor. Mr. Miran Jerič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State with a co-worker, honourable Member and fellow Members. I myself will support the amendment or the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Companies. The novelty is mainly due to the need to implement and harmonise our legal order in the field of status economic law with the law of the European Union, in particular through the Directive on the exercise of certain rights of listed shareholders. In part, the proposal for a novel is also due to the economic and financial crisis and the measures taken by the Government in this area, as well as to the problems the economic and financial crisis has brought with it. In my opinion, the amendment of the law is well established. Its main advantages are that it is strongly geared towards the interests of shareholders, in particular minority shareholders, which enable them to be better informed than it has been so far, in particular by means of technical and electronic means. The novelty also newly regulates the Assembly’s call, the publication of the agenda and the materials, and requires that it contain a reference and material for the congregation of shareholders also provide greater legal instruction to shareholders about their rights, and within what time limits both the extension of the agenda and the submission of counterproposals to the Assembly should be made. It also seems very important to me that it emphasises communication between society and shareholders, it is said, not in writing anymore, recommended via mail, but also through the use of modern electronic channels. It is also a welcome novelty that gives the Assembly competence if it decides to do so, but it does not need to do so to provide, at the principal level, for the remuneration policy of both members of the management or control bodies, which does not, of course, deprive the supervisory boards or management boards of the amounts of the members of the management or the remuneration, and these amounts or benefits must be limited or within the limits set by the assembly. The advantage of the novel is also the requirement that, from now on, both members of the management board and of the supervisory boards should disclose the level of all their remuneration, for each member individually and not as previously regulated, together. And this is revealed both in the annual accounts and at the shareholders’ assembly itself. Although this novelty has already been regulated in the Code of Conduct for Public Shareholders, the Code is not a legal act, and it is now better regulated in my opinion that it is regulated in the amendments and additions to this Act. Two things seem somewhat controversial or questionable to me: one is the legal prohibition of members of the supervisory boards from participating in the company’s profits. So far, it has been in force if this has been defined in the Statute or if the Assembly has determined that they could have been involved in the profit and now there is a legal prohibition. In some ways, this is an understandable measure in times of crisis, even in some ways like it, but it may also be questionable in some way, since it is taken away from shareholders, conditionally told the owners of companies to decide for themselves whether the supervisors deserved to participate in their work. Because of some way of bad performance of the tasks of some supervisors - what we have witnessed recently and when we read these stories - it is questionable whether it makes sense by law to prohibit participation in profits for all supervisors in all societies. Even in those private-owned companies, which I believe can also be the constitutionally controversial regulation of this area. Another controversial issue, which I find very topical, is the 41st article of the proposed novel, which speaks of the Assembly’s reference. You know that in these days and months our societies are calling congregations, and in some ways they do not know how the congregations will be able to reach out: according to old legislation or according to new legislation. In a way, all of these are in some legal uncertainty, and this shortest possible deadline for the enforcement of this law or fifteen days is in some way questionable. You know that this year these congregations can be carried out by the end of August. I believe that you will reconsider this and that this year's assembly will be carried out in accordance with the old legislation, then, of course, from August onwards, the references to the Parliament's legislation, which I believe will be adopted in the first half of the year. Once again, I'm going to support the new marriage. For these two comments, which I have made, I expect that you will also examine them in detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. East Crossbow. He's not here. Mr. Jože Tanko. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, mag. Andrej Vizjak. Would you like a word with the proposer? No, no, no. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I can see one hand. Anyone else? The debate is under way. Check-in is on. Mr. Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u163	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So I support the intent of the law, which is under consideration, in particular in the context of the fact that the law pays great attention in particular to small shareholders and protects small shareholders. Unfortunately, today, I think, together, it is a very well-known fact that this protection may have been delayed in some periods, when large concentrations of ownership have also occurred and, in relation to small shareholders, it has often been possible to conclude on some unfair behaviour and also on their injury. Above all, I would like to give my support to what the 8th and 9th articles say, which, of course, regulate what is a matter that is very public. Of course, I would not like the resolution of these issues to be connected through such recognised Slovenian envy. So it is not that someone, the legislator, has the feeling that he has to regulate this area because of the fact that someone receives unjustifiably or pays off certain benefits. Of course, it is a very important fact that many times in the public have been debated that both the administrations and the supervisory councils are not justified. Here I find it very important to note through this law that the sixth paragraph of Article 9 clearly speaks and gives the Assembly the opportunity to decide if that is what it wants and to draw up a remuneration policy for members of the governing and supervisory bodies. This seems to me to be an extremely important message, which does not interfere with the powers of the Supervisory Council, but gives the opportunity for the Assembly to define a policy within which the Supervisory Council must also define its decisions. Today we are saying that the economic and financial crisis is also linked to the values that we are often discussing. On the one hand, we are told that the great financial crisis was the result of greed, greed and these matters, and it seems to me that it would be unfair for all administrations and all the supervisory councils in Slovenia to throw in the same basket. Of course, many times it was possible to see that payments were made to the very large amounts for which there was public doubts about eligibility. In the context of the second reading of this law, it will be necessary to reconsider how those who cross all borders will be arrested. This issue is also very painful today in the context of the extremely large number of people receiving very low incomes. So they also receive very low incomes where administrations and supervisory councils in the past have paid extremely high amounts. Of course, these amounts become extremely high when we speak in connection with the awards in dependent companies. That is why I think it is appropriate for the Government to pay much attention to this issue. And if we link this to what has also been the question of today's mission, what does the Minister of Internal Policy do, then we will also create a body that will deliberately deal with the various, especially the most difficult forms of crime, particularly in the economic field. Thus, in this area, the Government gives a comprehensive picture of how it wants to regulate this important area, in accordance with the principle of justice, correctness, thanks to the work done and its success. For the very important question is how will the Slovenian society respect the principle of fair division between those who have a great or extremely large number, compared to those who face social goods many times. And here I think support for the solutions that this law brings is important, so I will vote in favour of the content of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On the day-to-day basis, this is a re-decision on the amendment of the value-added tax law. At its 7th extraordinary meeting on 2 April, the Council of State decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the National Assembly to re-judge before declaring the Law amending the Value Added Tax Act. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State, Mr Bogomir the Grandchild, to explain the Council's request.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u165	Mr. President-in-Office. Member of Parliament and Members of Parliament. The aim of the proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act was to improve the liquidity of the Slovenian economy, which is deteriorating due to the global financial crisis. In the world and, of course, even in Slovenia, this crisis still has a lot of mistrust between financial institutions, which have virtually stopped lending the economy, and the small one, which financial institutions are still lending under the essential conditions of the worse than a few months ago. In order to reduce the flow of liquid assets into the economy, companies are forced to extend payment deadlines or are no longer able to settle their obligations and this leads to a vicious cycle of liquidity reduction. The state can help to improve the liquidity of the Slovenian economy in these circumstances. One such example of measures in this direction could be a reduction in the time limit for the refund of the value-added tax in cases where the taxable person has a claim on the basis of the VAT calculation. This would make the economy more vulnerable to VAT, thus improving its liquidity situation. This objective was also followed by a proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act, which was introduced into the legislative procedure by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group with its first-signed mags. Andrei Vissiak. The bill provided that the deadline for reimbursement of overpaid VAT would be reduced from 60 to 7 days and that the law would enter into force the day following the publication of the Official Journal. During the legislative process in the National Assembly, the Government has proposed amendments that have substantially changed the purpose and purpose of this law. Thus, the Government's amendment extended the deadline for the refund of overpaid VAT from 7 to 21 days, which would still be acceptable. The amendment was also adopted that the law would only enter into force on 31 June - first. After that, the Government's subsequent amendment was adopted, but it did not enter into force until 31 December 2009. The Government thus based the change on the fact that the immediate entry into force of this law or the entry into force on 30 June 2009 would constitute a significant public financial outturn. This argument is not true because it is about returning funds belonging to Slovenian companies and not to the Government or to the state budget. It would be only a liquidity outturn of the state budget, which the Government, which has significantly better debt opportunities than companies, would be much easier to deliver. The purpose of this Act is to determine the date of application from 31. 12. 2009 so completely destroyed the law and, therefore, according to the Council of State, is unacceptable and has also been vetoed by the State Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Rad Likar, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 10th urgent meeting, on 15. 4. On the basis of Article 147 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as a parent working body, he considered the request of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia to re-decision on the Law amending the Value Added Tax Act, proposed by the MEP mag. Mr Andrej Visiak, adopted by the National Assembly at its 4th meeting, on 31. 3. 2009 The State Council based the request in conclusion on the finding that the initial purpose of the law in terms of State aid to improve the liquidity of the Slovenian economy by subsequently determining its application for VAT accounts relating to the tax period after 31. 12. 2009, destroyed. Since the reasons for re-decision on the Value Added Tax Act do not relate to the legal issue, but are of a substantive nature, the Legislative and Legal Service has not defined its business tasks to them. It follows from the conclusion of a preliminary presentation of the opinion of the Government at the meeting of the Committee that, following the reasons for the basic arguments, it is reasonable to adopt the law in an unaltered form, since any other decision could have a negative impact on the already established balance of public finances. However, opinions were shared in the debate. For the debaters who supported the basic text of the law and supported the decision of the Council of State, the immediate application of the text for economic operators would be the only and appropriate solution, and therefore, in the final text, the introduction of the entry into force would constitute a solution that is not appropriate. It is money owned by economic operators which must be reimbursed as soon as possible. During the parliamentary procedure, in the first place, due to the changing positions of the Government, the original text has been redrafted to the extent that the vote of the net of the State Council constitutes a clear message on the adopted inappropriate text or a departure from the properly established basic guidelines. This leaves it problematic to obtain liquidity money from companies based on the basic intent of the law, requiring the immediate establishment of an appropriate credit activity in the exposed area. In the opinion of the discussers, who agreed with the newly introduced solutions on the basis of the procedure adopted by the amendments or support the opinions of the Government, the adopted text on good law, which is worthy of support, and related to a realistic assessment of the public financial consequences, which will help businesses for a period of time, as the crisis from the date of the envisaged implementation is not expected to fall. Last but not least, it's a lot of these kind of returns. While it is not disputed that money is owned by companies, the text, based on an examination of the actual possibilities for VAT recovery in the current financial situation, can only be implemented on the scheduled date. In the meantime, the budget money is used to provide both emergency social transfers and the necessary assistance in restructuring the economy or in other priority areas. Following the discussion, the Committee voted on the view that the Law amending the Added Value Tax Act was appropriate. The Committee did not adopt that opinion because it was not voted in favour by the majority of all members of the Committee, that is eight, while the outcome of the vote was seven in favour and one in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Mag. Mr Andre Visiak as the drafter of the law for reasons of opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament. A nice welcome to the representatives of the State Council. In fact, the representative of the Council of State has taken key, important circumstances, information and also views about this law, which I have as my own proposal. In fact, I would hardly add anything except what I think is important to stress that this was the proposal of an important anti-crisis law. Because we were then faced with a whole series of visions, why it was not so far ahead. This is an anti-crisis measure that is simple and that works quickly and that is effective. And, as such, he has been subjected to such abuse through the government's opinions and the coalition's decisions that he is completely useless. The kind of man who is now depraved, as he is before us in re-decision, is unnecessary, makes no sense. It is not anti-crisis and can, in fact, be a similar solution on the table in six months when we take action for next year. However, this is no longer an anti-crisis measure, and the basic intention of this proposal has been to "complicate". Just as all the opposition's proposals, not only the opposition, but also the economies, chambers of commerce, chambers of commerce, chambers of commerce, which are efficient, simple and functioning. But there are some populism announcements of measures coming to the fore, what we are going to do, how we care about the Slovenian economy - that is, many empty words, and concrete measures that work are few. So a lot of money is being made on this subject, and the effects and effective measures are being tackled a little. In fact, this is one of the problems of the current government and the current space, and that is why this measure, which I have proposed as first-signed, has been rejected because it has been effective, simple and clear and would have been taken immediately. And in return, we're hearing about some of the measures that they're going to take when we do, I don't know when we're going to see them. So I am in the position that the law was as proposed, this is said to return overpaid VAT relatively quickly and that this solution will enter into force immediately counter-crisis action, which in my view would represent one but important element in counter-crisis measures. I'm sure it's not enough, but it's important. As such it was not accepted, it was complemented in key solutions by amendments to the coalition or the government, and as a result it "committed" its whole positive purpose, which was in fact recognized by the State Council as a whole and consequently voted veto. As a proposaler, I would say that I will not support this distorted solution, because I think it is unnecessary at this time and I will probably think about other forms of voting on these solutions before Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. The re-decision on amending the Value Added Tax Act adopted by the National Assembly at its 4th regular meeting at the end of the previous month, at which the Council of State voted veto in its powers, reopens the apparent dilemma on the content of the adopted law, which reduces the period of reimbursement of the overpaid tax from 30 and 60 days to 21 days, but is foreseen as from 1 January of the following year. Undoubtedly, the problem of the shortest possible retention of overpaid value added tax is present and would require an appropriate solution even if they were not under pressure from the economic and financial crisis, which only forces them to find appropriate solutions, but in doing so it is necessary to take into account objective data, both from the organisational and technical point of view of the implementation of accounting controls, tax incursions and from the liquidity implications for public finances, in particular for the State budget, especially at a time when it is clear that the tax revenues of the state budget will fall above one billion euros in this financial year. The legal solution contained in the law, which we will be re-declaring today, is a compromise between the two objectives and we will therefore re-support the law in our Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. For the introduction, I will say that the proposal to shorten the repayment deadline of the overpaid VAT was prepared deep last year, even in the previous term, and that, therefore, even after this salary, it was not explicitly linked to the crisis, but to the legitimate requirements of the economy, not to lend their money to the state budget. Not the previous government, nor the present government, has seen this in time, has put it into its work programme and its realization. However, the current government has largely amended the law, which has been tabled as a proposal, so that it has twice amended and has twice worsened in terms of its attitude towards the economy. In the DeSUS Group, we have always been determined to vote on our own conscience because this is a long story. That's what veto is in this case. So the vote will be such that most will support the government's position, but not all. Some believe that the position of the economy that is perceived through this bill is more appropriate. The parliamentary group's argument to support is to uphold what it has been referring to in defence of its law or its amendments to the Government. So the issue of control, the inefficiencies of the budget and the deterioration of the deficit in this year's budget. Those who do not think so, we consider these to be inappropriate arguments and that this proposal, which has not been proposed as a crisis, could function as an anti-crisis law, could be adopted immediately. Because this has not happened and because now there is no longer the theoretical possibility that this law, which reduces the deadline to 21 days and will only be enforced in the next year, will become post-crisis. So with the crisis, we hope, it will no longer have a direct link, but it will have this weakness to be late. If we wanted to change or introduce a new law now, at best we would have the option of applying a different way just before the law is now in force. Such a great sense of arguing about this marriage and wondering what is right and what is wrong is probably irrelevant now. However, because of the principle of the position that the economy should be helped when the right time is right, I do not intend to support the government's position that this law should be enforced only after we hope the crisis is over. So, the DeSUS Group will vote in a way that respects its own conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, the new president. What we do not like about the Slovenian National Party is, in fact, that we as the legislative branch of power, no matter what color we are, are very unserious about this law. As much as the game, the jokes, the changes, the arrangements, the negotiations on this law, which had only one goal, is, to say the least, unrealistic of all of us who, I believe, are at least more responsible for our work. For the proposal to go from 60 to seven days, we have heard many excuses from what is most surprising, incompetent computer equipment, unadapted equipment and control, and I don't know what else. Then we went from 60 to 30, and from 30 to 21, that's like the Arab countries on the market. And when we somehow found a common language here, even in the majority with the desire and justification to help people return their money, their money, before it was in practice in the past, to help them circulate their food and financial flows faster, we did, of course, one strange thing again, which with this desire for help has nothing, namely, that this law should enter into force with the new year 2010. This would ruin a few months of helping people, and I regret that I do not have the data, the latest data, the exact data, the calculations with which the state has the money on this account. It's okay if he needs it. I'm in. If the owners agree. But most of all, it was an excuse that this law could not be applied earlier, that it would be a liquidity outage of the state budget, when it was not at all and would never be a means of the state budget. In the Slovenian National Party, we are sad about such an event, about such implementation; not to say the same, but immediately for the first 2010 and then 30. 6. 2009, then again - we're not serious! In the Slovenian National Party, of course, such a law as has already been passed if we decide once again on the law currently in force, which is to enter into force. 1. 2010, as before, we will not support it now. Otherwise, it will not help, but at least we will have a clear conscience for citizens and citizens that we wanted to help with this law. Otherwise, if you want this law to enter into force on 1.1.2010, I suggest that you submit a proposal to amend this law and that we return to 60 days, that at least the country benefits from the fact that those who would have this money do not already have it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the SLS Group, we will vote in favour of the Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax. The basic draft law provided that the deadline for the refund of overpaid VAT should be reduced from 60 days to 7 days and that the law would enter into force the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal. During the legislative process in the National Assembly, the Government has proposed amendments that have substantially changed the purpose and purpose of this law. Thus, the Government's amendment extended the deadline for the refund of overpaid VAT from 7 to 21 days. It is totally incomprehensible and unacceptable for the Slovenian economy, however, that the law should apply to VAT accounts relating to tax periods after 31 December 2009. In view of the Government's arguments, the immediate implementation of this law would result in an excessive public financial loss of revenue. We did not agree with such an argument throughout the procedure, since it was the recovery of funds belonging to Slovenian companies, not to the state budget. In addition, in the debates at the National Assembly on the subject of rebalancing, we found that the funds on certain items were and could have done the matter elegantly. While we agree with the re-voting motioner's argument that the purpose of the law adopted by determining the application of 31.12. has been completely eliminated, we will nevertheless support the law and allow further possibilities for the Government and the coalition in the National Assembly to be convinced in the future in spite of all the need and necessity for the early implementation and application of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. All together, once again a friendly greeting, and in particular the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and those who have proposed a veto, this is to the representatives of the Council of State. I agree that the law has been put in place with a good purpose and that, as far as corporate finances are concerned, it will certainly bring some progress. But there's just something in life that you don't have that you just can't share. And also that now that it has not been adopted instead of a 60-day 7-day deadline, we have stopped at a 21-day deadline, which means that we have also sought certain reserves within the tax system, so that the work of the tax industry in this area will not be less qualitative, but faster and more efficient. I don't think we've missed the goals of the law in any way. I'd be very happy if I did. 1. 2010 would no longer need this law, but unfortunately the consequences of the global economic crisis, not the Slovenian economic crisis, are such that the economy of January will need no less than today. If we want to put this law into force earlier, this means that we must give up a number of public spending in other important areas, which we cannot do at this moment, because the consequences of the economic crisis make the revenues to the state budget shrink, and we will certainly meet with a re-adjustment of the state budget before the end of this year, which will adapt the expenditure to the revenues as it is in any simplest right, fair and real family budget; you can simply spend as much as you have. On the other hand, it has been repeatedly heard that we are taking something that is not stately to the economy. Definitely. These 150 million, which would mean a large and important public financial income, are not state-owned funds, are owned by the economy, and that is the good, quality part of the Slovenian economy, which, when it has this in the state budget, also helps social transfers and that part of the expenditure that it currently has, unfortunately, is not doing so well. It must be said, however, that the country retains this money for the economy on the one hand and, on the other hand, it is sure that 10 times that amount is spent on helping the economy, on guarantees, on social transfers, on science, on development and more. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will be happy to re-establish the law, as we have done so far, to achieve what we have achieved together, that the deadline for payment has been cut short for the law to enter into force in January, certainly holding in life: better late than never. I do not want to reopen the question of why some of this law did not apply at a time when the public financial situation was significantly better in Slovenia, but it will always be written down the decision of this government, this national assembly, that we have settled this important area, certainly late, but not too late. In the Group of Liberal Democracy, we have not changed our position, we do not want to endanger public finances, and we will therefore re-establish the law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Ms Renata Brunskole has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u181	Nicely greeted! Madam Vice-President, distinguished representative of the Ministry of Finance, dear colleagues and colleagues, welcome! I present to you the position of the Group of Social Democrats. The reduction of payment deadlines makes sense, but not at the expense of reducing tax control, as this would result in less detection of tax wheel fraud. The proposed measure would also result in a significant loss of resources for the state budget, which means that the government would run out of resources to provide some important measures to reduce the impact of the financial crisis. Should the law be in force in 2009, the VAT budget revenue would fall by around €150 to € 160 million, which would be difficult to achieve with a minus 4% economic growth. Therefore, the current form of the law applying the amendments is acceptable, i.e. the beginning of a reduction in VAT repayment to 21 days, from 1 January 2010, when the funds provided for in the 2010 State budget are also foreseen for this purpose. While the Government has already implemented the amendments to the Law on the Tax Procedure, it has ensured an ongoing reduction in the burden on legal persons, so that the tax rate applicable in 2009 and not the tax rate of the previous year, such as the applicable regulation, can be taken into account when determining the amount of the tax on legal persons' income for 2009. In this way, the amount of tax advances paid will be closer to the amount of tax to be paid in 2010 on the basis of tax accounts. The proposed measure will liquidate the economy in a liquidity way and, on the basis of corporate income tax calculations, the economy will be burdened by liquidity by around EUR 50 million per year. Due to the need for rational use of money and funds to target measures to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis, the implementation of the law in 2010 is acceptable. Let me repeat, in the Group of Social Democrats we will once again support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u183	Thank you again for your word, Madam Vice President. We will not support this proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we believe that this moment is unnecessary, because the purpose was completely flawed, undermined and broken by these amendments or by a key amendment to enforce the law only next year. The law was aimed at counter-crisis, so we also proposed it in the procedure, and it would have worked if it had acted now and immediately. As far as the solutions now found in this amended proposal for the law to enter into force only next year are concerned, the positive solution is that the deadline actually falls from 60 days to 21 days. However, it is absolutely unnecessary today to adopt a law that is so simple, so short a law that will only enter into force next year. It would probably be more comfortable for the Government to propose such a law at the same time as the 2010 budget, because, in accordance with all the rules of procedure, it will have to propose to the National Assembly, because this is a very important accompanying law of the budget for the coming year. Therefore, I believe that this moment is completely irrelevant whether we accept it or reject it. It is very difficult for me to sign myself under such a law, which is now, as it is, in contrast to the basic version of it, abject. But, look, when we analyzed some of the behaviour and even then the coalition vote in Slovenia, we thought something really strange, which I also heard today: "Something you don't have you can't share." That was said. Your Honor, we don't share state money. We share the money of the economy - we do not share, we return it. We are talking about the return of something that the economy has paid back to the state treasury. We do not share what is, as I would say, a state budget and a part of the state budget. This is such a lapsus, which indicates that the one who says it has no idea about it or actually rejects everything that comes from the opposition. And there's something else, purely formal. This money would threaten certain other projects. I hope that this money, the money of the economy, does not finance the state budget projects, even though we know how it is in the budget; what comes in, you consume immediately, what comes later, you pay back what you have already spent. But if they were correct, they would give this money back to the economy, not finance some other spending, state spending or projects and so on. And that question would be totally illusory and irrelevant. In short, I see that, in fact, there is no interest, neither in the Government nor in the majority, in the coalition, to go with one simple, efficient, swift measure to the economy contrary. Here we use other approaches, how much to talk, say nothing. Today, we have heard a lot of this, including from the Prime Minister in the light of the Members' questions. The Slovenian Democratic Party does not wish to participate in this in some way. We will not support such solutions, which promise much, but nothing at the same time, so we cannot support this proposal. However, we will continue with good proposals and will intensify these proposals, so that Members and Members can also be confronted with how they see the situation and the solution from the SDS and how they obviously do not see this Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u184	Thank you very much. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, it is for a re-decision on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 7th extraordinary meeting on 2 April 2009, the Council of State decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the National Assembly to decide again before declaring the law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Peter Scream to explain the request of the Council of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u185	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. Thank you so much for saying that. The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a decision to rule once again on the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia, but not because it would not agree with the measures introduced by this Act, but because the law explicitly includes only loans to persons organised under the Company Act and thus excludes loans from the Guarantee Scheme to cooperatives that take place on the market in the same way as companies. The cooperatives are economic operators operating in the same environment as companies, having the same tax and other obligations, which are subject to the same legislation on the prevention of unacceptable restrictions on competition and on unfair competition, on financial operations, termination and, last but not least, on State aid. The financial and economic crisis aims at cooperatives as well as other economic operators, so there is no argument to treat cooperatives less favourably than companies. It is not justified to seek reasons for treating cooperatives differently for the specific purpose of the cooperative in order to promote the economic benefits of members through the cooperation of members. Even companies operate for the benefit of their partners in the management of gainful activities, and there is only a variety of ways to achieve this objective. The cooperatives achieve this objective on the basis of the participation of the members and the company mainly on the basis of the share capital participation of the shareholders. In particular, it is worth noting that most working cooperatives in Slovenia have assets that have a permanent cooperative purpose and have been created by the work and operations of several generations of cooperatives. The legislator has determined the mutual purpose of this property, given the openness of the new members' association, democratic governance on the basis of the same voting right, the use and division of profits on the basis of cooperation and only subordinated to capital. All of these characteristics actually favour more favourable treatment of cooperatives, but not less favourable treatment compared to other economic operators. Many countries, including members of the European Union, support cooperatives with additional measures, in addition to those applicable to all economic operators. Nor is it justified in terms of the internal market that, in order to exclude cooperatives from the guarantee scheme and other similar State aid schemes, the competitive capacity of cooperatives is limited. The decision of the Council of State to require the National Assembly to reconsider the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia is based on the orientation to ensure that cooperatives are treated in the same way as other economic operators, as the Council of State has already pointed out in its general consideration of the anti-crisis measures. As it is said, some other State aid schemes, which are not otherwise within the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture, exclude cooperatives from the range of potential recipients, which remains limited to companies and businesses. In the legislative procedure already, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has pointed out that the provision under which the borrowers are borrowers, which essentially means recipients of State aid in the form of guarantees, can only be granted to persons in the statutory form of a company governed by law established in the Republic of Slovenia, but not to other legal persons carrying out an economic activity, not only affect the principle of non-discrimination on the basis of nationality, but also to equality before the law provided for in Article 14 of the Constitution and that the legal proposal does not give any interpretation for such an action, although there should be real and urgent reasons in the public interest, while the intervention in principle of equality before the law must be proportionate. The concept of an undertaking within the meaning of European Community law, as used by this term in the provisional framework of the Community, represents any organised form of production and sale of goods or of the provision of services on the market. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] [[Just one more sentence.]] Following a Communication from the Commission on the promotion of cooperatives in 2004, the concept of a company in terms of competition rules also explicitly covers cooperatives. It is clear from all this that cooperatives are justified, as well as economic companies Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I give my word to the president, Mr. Mag. To Anton Rope, to present the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u187	Dear Members. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as a parent working body, considered the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the Council of State presented the reasons for the request to the Committee in the introductory statement, stressing, inter alia, that cooperatives as economic operators are regulated in the Cooperatives Act, as a specific law, not in the Company Act, and therefore are not covered by the Guarantee Scheme Act, which is unacceptable in the opinion of the representative of the Council of State. The request for re-decision on the law was not adopted with a view to delaying, in the opinion of the Council of State, its application, but because cooperatives have been in a difficult economic and financial situation for some time, as well as other economic operators. In the context of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State also submitted an amendment to the National Assembly, which would provide for the provision of Article 6 defining the borrower for whom guarantees are issued to include cooperatives, but unfortunately, according to the representative of the State Council, there was no hearing for this proposal. The opening statement was reached by a representative of the Council of State by announcing the possibility of an initiative for a constitutional review of the law in the event of its re-adopted. According to government representatives, the request of the State Council, as assessed by the Government, is unfounded because the law has been prepared with a view to providing additional liquidity to companies operating under the Company Act and complying with certain conditions. These companies operate on the market in order to make profits. On the contrary, in the view of the Government, cooperatives should be set up to provide economic benefits to their members or to promote them. The government does not deny the economic problems in agriculture and is therefore seeking appropriate solutions for granting State aid, but with different mechanisms and not under the guarantee scheme. The debate reiterated the importance of the Law on a guarantee scheme to facilitate a credit crunch in the economy and the urgency of its early implementation. For this reason, criticism was addressed to the representative of the State Council regarding the illegal action in the course of the examination of the draft law, as the amendment proposal for the integration of cooperatives was prepared on the basis of the proposal of the Association of Slovenia, submitted to the National Assembly only after the meeting of the parent committee. So we hope and appeal to the representatives of the Council of State to join us in due time next time at the meeting of the home committee, and we will certainly take their proposals into account. The members of the Committee were convinced that this amendment would be adopted if it were discussed in the second stage of the consideration of the proposed law on the Committee. With regard to the content of the State Council’s request, unanimous support was expressed for all, indeed, all the discussers, to include cooperatives as soon as possible within the framework of the Guarantee Scheme Act or to provide other appropriate solutions to support the economic and financial functioning of cooperatives, taking into account their different specificities. It was pointed out that cooperatives operate on the market and are economically important, vital, and can also be effective, in particular in carrying out economic activities in local communities in less developed areas. In addition, they carry out activities under the cooperative law under the same conditions as companies. At the conclusion of the debate, the Committee adopted a decision calling for it, and now again I call on the Government itself to include, as soon as possible, cooperatives, or to prepare another appropriate solution, among the lenders for whom guarantees are issued. Otherwise, Members of Parliament will draw up such a law or a solution on their own and will also put it into the procedure of the National Assembly. Following the discussion, the Committee, by a majority of the votes of all members, also adopted an opinion that the law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u189	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, again. At times, Members of the National Assembly have been separated, as was the case with the previous post-crisis law, where some have not even separated between whether you own or own something, and there have been some concerns about this law, but there have been some differences in nature. When the Group of Members decides on how to deal with the guarantee scheme, it is quite clear that it is understood as an anti-crisis measure which must take effect as soon as possible, if not immediately. And we understand everything that is an obstacle on the way to the economy, as something that is unjustifiable, and we condemn it. Unfortunately, this has happened with what the State Council has adopted in its composition, as we have seen, where most of those involved in the economy are missing: managers, economists and so on, and there seem to have been other reasons to delay the implementation of this yet necessary measure at the forefront. We in the DeSUS Group also advocate that economic operators be treated equally. We do know, however, that this proposal for a guarantee scheme law has been targeted and that there are clear reasons why it involves and does not include whom. At the various meetings, it was ensured that appropriate support would also be given to a stakeholder group of cooperatives, not all of them, because there are other cooperatives, other than those to which the applicant presented the issue today. As the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has already assured today, there has been a unanimous support for the view that, if not the Government, other proposals for assistance should be adopted as soon as possible for cooperatives. In the DeSUS Group, we will act in such a way that we will allow the early implementation of the guarantee scheme law and we do not agree with the method of work that has been used and which has led to the fact that 100,000 employees will not receive in time what the guarantee scheme would have enabled if it had not been vetoed. In doing so, not only in the DeSUS Group, I think that we are more or less united in other groups of Members, and we expect that selfishness will no longer be a reason for accepting any vetoes in the State Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u191	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, for the last time today! It's hard sometimes to decide if you're up for it, you're up against it, and vice versa. It is true that it is not good that the guarantee scheme law, which is one of the quick-help measures, is late. It is also true that it is not fair, at least on the basis of Article 14 of the Constitution, to exempt cooperatives. Reading different opinions that the guarantee scheme is intended for that part of the economy that creates which works for profit on the market, that it is not intended for cooperatives because they are not supposed to be, but are something else on the one hand. You can read one way or another, but the logical understanding is that cooperatives are also those involved in some process, some sales process, with profit, no profit, acceleration or no profit, this is at least irrelevant for the Slovenian National Party. We estimate that it would be right for cooperatives to be included in this guarantee scheme, regardless of the different differences and the different discussions, if we take Article 14 of the Constitution or if we take the concept of an undertaking defined in certain provisions of European law and of the European Community. There is so much doubt about it that cooperatives will be involved in this circle. I sincerely hope that we will, because we will have to confirm the guarantee scheme and the law again, that we will all live in the shortest possible time with the consciousness that the other decision that he says will be realized, a committee whose member I am also a member of, that this committee calls on the Government to prepare, as soon as possible, a proposal to amend the guarantee scheme law, which is a little strange with previous explanations, but nothing serious, or find another appropriate solution to include, as soon as possible, in the form of a guarantee scheme, in borrowers or those who need guarantees, guarantees, including cooperatives. With this hope and attitude towards the government, with the hope of the Finance Committee, led by the President, who we have just heard that this will be achieved in the shortest possible time, we will, once again in the Slovenian National Party, have to support the guarantee scheme law to act and help the economy act as a counter-crisis measure, by keeping an eye on the government's decision, on the government's expectations that it will adopt a form or amend the cooperative guarantee scheme law as soon as possible. Remember that cooperatives are those companies or associations where small farmers have the opportunity to join the market. And they're very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a guarantee scheme law makes it easier for companies established in the Republic of Slovenia to obtain liquid assets to finance investments in investments and in assets. In the SLS, we believe that this is one of the best measures taken by the government. We also regret in the SLS that a veto has taken place in the State Council. Perhaps the reason is that the law was fasting, which is logical, and in the SLS we also supported this rush. Thus, there was not enough time for all to learn well enough about the problem of cooperatives and to include them in this law. For the crisis has affected everything, not just some, and it would be good for the government to take this into account. So, the crisis has also hit agriculture very hard, but this fact is kind of hard to accept. It would be right for cooperatives to receive the same support, of course under the same conditions as all other companies. In accordance with the Cooperatives Act, the Republic of Slovenia promotes the development of society through economic policy measures. Since the entry into force of the second novel, the law expressly provides that cooperatives are entitled to state aid. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 56 of the Cooperative Act, the cooperative may also carry out activities under the same conditions as companies. We are of the opinion that we must not hold back the law as such, although we do not know at this time in the Slovenian People's Party what stage the drafting of a regulation will make this law operational, because we simply must not jeopardise the liquidity of companies. At the same time, we predict that in the next few days, we will put forward a proposal to supplement this law, which will also include cooperatives in the circle of beneficiaries under this law. Thus, the National Assembly will be able to provide a constructive solution to the wrong situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Say good-bye again! I'm glad to hear the messages I got just before my presentation. Perhaps it is right that the part that has helped to ensure that this decision has not been comprehensive or timely helps to bring about a solution that we will certainly support in our Group of Members. In the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, when we adopt the Guarantee Scheme Act, which we are re-declaring today, we have said that we absolutely support the creation of a special anti-crisis guarantee scheme for companies worth as much as 1.2 billion euros, whose primary purpose is to establish a medium-term credit market, which is one of the main problems in Slovenia at this time, because it does not work as it should. At the same time, we have also expressed our expectation that the guarantee scheme will become operational as soon as possible and to remind the Minister of Finance of his promise in 14 days of uninterrupted work, which will be put into preparation for the implementation and operationalisation of this measure. Unfortunately, our expectations are not fully realized, as there will be at least a one-month delay in the implementation of the measure. This is only partly to be blamed by the State Council, in particular because we have been excluded by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly in its opinion and have also raised the question why recipients of this State aid are solely independent entrepreneurs and businesses, but also by other legal persons who can sell goods or provide services on the market, thus carrying out economic activity or falling within the framework of what is meant in the explanation of the article by virtue of the obligation of the economy, and further that the proposal for a law to intervene in an equal manner before the law referred to in Article 14 of the Constitution provides no explanation, even though there should be real and urgent reasons in the public interest, while the intervention must be proportionate in principle before the law. At the same time, the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out that the concept of an undertaking within the meaning of European law constitutes any organised form of production and sale of goods or of the provision of services on the market. So there's a way to understand that these are cooperatives. So there was a warning, and I'm sure we'll fix it. It is true, however, that it is also a warning and that the initiative of the Association of Slovenia in the National Assembly has come too late to include cooperatives among the beneficiaries of this State aid in the form of a guarantee under the urgent procedure. For in our Group of Members, we received the letter of the Joint Alliance immediately after the final vote on the bill. That is why, of course, in the parliamentary group, despite the government's opinion, we consider, of course, that correction is more or less formal. We believe that there is no reason why the guarantee scheme law should not treat economic operators organised in accordance with the cooperative law equally. For cooperatives, especially those in the field of agriculture, are considered important, by content, but not by formal status to be important economic companies, which are particularly important for solving employment problems and for maintaining the rural economy. At the same time, tonight or even today, before the dilemma that companies are looking forward to this financial recovery, we will once again support the proposal of the law, allowing businesses to have immediate access to credit funds, and in particular stressing that in the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we support the decision of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which calls on the Government to prepare, as soon as possible, a proposal for a new law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia, which will include cooperatives among the borrowers for whom the guarantee is issued. In the parliamentary group, we will do everything we can to enable the Government to resolve this problem as soon as possible and also to enable cooperatives to guarantee, guarantee and operate on the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Member Renata Brunskole shall have the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u197	Hello again! The Group of Social Democrats has not changed its decision to support the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and has also been adopted by this High Council. We regret that the Council of State has adopted a veto on this law, because we have been and are still convinced that this law is one of the fundamental laws that will certainly help to give up the so-called credit crunch that has arisen in this financial and economic crisis. With a veto on this law, we have actually lost about a month when economic operators could be slightly easier to obtain the necessary bank funds in the form of loans. The basic purpose of the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia is to primarily help legal persons organised in a status form in this financial and economic crisis by law governed by an economic company established in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, we understand the concern of the Council of State, which, in its explanation for the veto, also explained the need to find a solution for cooperatives engaged in economic activity. Surely cooperatives also feel both financial and other economic crises at this time, but we must say that it was time for this matter to be proposed in the legislative process, but unfortunately this has not been done. However, in the Group of Social Democrats, we support the initiative of the Association of Slovenia and the position of the Council of State, as well as the decision of the Committee on Finance, which states that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall, as soon as possible, prepare amendments and supplement the law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia or otherwise arrange that cooperatives may be included in the guarantee scheme or that the State will assist them with other systemic measures to make it easier to cope with this crisis. The Social Democrats will be supported by the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia in re-decision, as the economy urgently needs it at the moment, and cooperative assistance is also needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u198	The hall is beautiful. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u199	Dear Vice President! Honorable representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! Of course, it is relatively sad that we are facing such a late marriage in Parliament, which is a very important anti-crisis law and which is also the result of the solutions adopted in the past year. This is the possibility of issuing guarantees to banks for servicing or borrowing the interbank market, as well as for servicing the real sector. It is only now that we are once again in Parliament that we are deciding on these solutions, which should have been in place for several months. It's not the State Council's fault, it's not the veto of the State Council. We do not yet have a regulation which is the basic implementation of this law. The Minister of Finance, who is not here today, nor is anyone from the Government, can explain, even though he had the opportunity to see when this regulation will be, when will we see it, when will we feel the operationality of the guarantee scheme law, a law that is supposed to help the work of the Slovenian economy which has development projects and which is difficult to reach funding sources for these development projects. The law also provides for the possibility of reprogramming certain undertakings' obligations and explicitly excludes the possibility of financing or re-financing any management purchases. The law is essentially good, and we will also support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but it is somewhat flawed. The biggest problem with this law is that it does not yet live in practice, that it does not work and will not work tomorrow, despite the fact that we are likely to vote again today because there is no key regulation on the implementation of this law. The Minister of Finance has promised that this regulation will be dealt with by the Committee on Finance. The Committee on Finance has not yet been convened with this content. We haven't seen the regulations yet. And here to say, Your Honor, that the State Council is to blame or anyone for vetoing this delay for this month is, of course, unfair because it's not true. I publicly ask the Minister of Finance: Where is this unfortunate regulation under Article 4 of the law that will put the whole law and the guarantee scheme into operation? Of course, in the past we have pointed out some of the shortcomings of these solutions. A very important disadvantage is that the funds that an undertaking may receive under this law are limited by the number of employees and their salaries, which means that this law is written on the skin of the labour-intensive but not on the capital or technology-intensive economic operators and activities. Bore little will be the benefits of this law to technologically advanced companies, which usually do not employ much and do not have a lot of wages, but have a lot of money in their equipment and are very difficult for capital companies in this regard. So that's not what he's saving. It also does not solve an important segment of the economy, which has invested a lot in the past, especially in high-conjunctural times, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, but now it wants to breathe in these investments and operate, but it needs some re-credits because the credit lines have closed. He doesn't have any new revolutionary development projects right now because he just finished them. He needs money for a reprogram of commitments to make it live, so that what he has invested in in recent years will begin to produce results. I'm sorry, this law does not provide a solution for such companies. It's a little something for the reprogram, but it's key to some new developments. The law has become more or less adrift in an area that will be used very little. That even confirms a little of what I said earlier. As far as cooperatives are concerned, I fully agree that cooperatives are inside and probably fell apart by mistake. And it has always been a problem, also associated with the Ministry of Agriculture, which is the basic institution of the cooperative law. Companies have a law on the rescue of businesses in difficulty, the Ministry of Agriculture has not prepared and notified the scheme to the cooperatives of this law. And that's where this problem is now. But believe me, why? Because the Ministry of Agriculture always wanted to be attached [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to the Ministry of the Economy in dealing with these issues. [[...]] So it was some kind of parallel project. We therefore support this effort of the State Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Posede on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Trophynic. You cannot, Mr Trophynik, because you were the first to be written, but then we received a letter here from your leader of the delegation, where he informs us that Mr Aloise Posedel will perform in this case. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, that is at 4:20 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed in half an hour at 4.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u201	Dear colleagues and fellow Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting device, which means that an orange light must burn on the right hand side of the card. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I ask colleagues and colleagues to follow the course of the sitting alone. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - this is on questions from Members and Members. In line with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly held a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice, Mr Aleš Zalar, to the question of Mr Vink Gorenak on the work of the Ministry of Justice and the Council for Criminal Law." We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 42. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Parliamentary Zvonk Černač's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Aleš Zalar's reply to Mr Zvonk Černač's question on the representation of lawyers and audit procedures." We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 45. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In line with Ambassador Alenka Jeraj's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly held a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice, Mr Aleš Zalar, and Mrs Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, to Mrs Alenka Jeraj's question on ensuring security in the courts." We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Jožef Jerovška, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Culture Majda Širca Ravnikar to Mr Jožef Jerovška's question on human resources changes at the Ministry of Culture." We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Miran Györek, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Gregor Golobic, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, to Mr Miran Györek's question on the implementation of higher education programmes in the Republic of Slovenia." We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Visiak will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of mags. Andrej Visiak in connection with corporate bankruptcy." Explanation on behalf of the groups of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Statistical data and forecasts, which speak of the relatively sad picture and the sad future of the Slovenian economy, are also supported by the number of bankruptcys, and the types of unemployed are increasing. There's over 82 thousand of them already. Individual cases, such as the case of Pomurka, where economic damage was also caused by the uncoordinated approach of the ministries of this government. Not only has there not been an attempt to resolve this company. What's more, there's been trouble, there's been economic damage. And here is an illustration of inefficiency and the associated responsibility of the current government for this situation. I asked the President of the Government how, in the future, with some coordinated approach, action, with some more effective engagement, he would prevent such and future phenomena. I've been involved in a lot of general evaluations, some meddlesome efforts that don't produce fruit. In the case of Pomurka, it would probably be sufficient to call the Minister for the Economy on the phone so that electricity is not cut off from this company because the goods can be damaged. And then we were also faced with the consequences that we are accustomed to from wartime, that at some discounted price we share flesh with people and so forth. Here we have also received some evasiveness, since the state cannot fail to know how to interfere with the decisions of economic operators, even though they are majority state-owned, irrespective of the damage and the effect of these free decisions of economic operators. I think we need to clear up once and for all this relationship between the Government, among the asset managers entrusted with governance. In fact, the government manages state assets and these leading teams and structures in economic operators, which in some ways cause problems and damage with relatively little or no work. Here we need to pour clean wine, establish and identify the instruments that the Government has at its disposal so that such eccentric undesirable events will no longer occur in the future. If not, the types of unemployed will increase, and we will talk about how we are working to solve the problems, the problems will increase, they will become deeper and deeper.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Because there is an interest in explaining the voice in your own name, please apply. Mr. France Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. Mr Prime Minister has clearly asked what are the measures that are supposed to be proactive, which are supposed to prevent bankruptcy, which should have intervened in time. Instead, the President of the Government said, the government is reacting proactively, looking for every way out of this crisis, to continue its pro-active policy. We would like to hear at least one measure from each package, now the third package, which is really proactive. He was further asked and explained that the burden of this crisis cannot be borne by people who are not responsible for this crisis. We want the burdens of this crisis to be shared fairly, given the social situation and the power of the people. What action is it that will resolve these good promises? That's what we want to hear. He replied to the question of how to prevent bankruptcy and the crisis that workers are in, and replied that the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs had gone to MIP alone, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] To solve these problems. [[...]] I don't think it's enough to answer it the way it answers some pre-election meetings. Here in this House we are Members who know what is going on with these things. And we want concrete answers. Let us give him the opportunity to hear once concrete answers to which those measures are proactive, effective, preventive. Otherwise, I find such a relationship offensive, so I will support this conclusion because I do not want to be equal to people in a pre-election meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. I also support the proposal to have an extensive debate, because the situation is more than too serious to be able to find the right answers within the short time allowed by the process. In addition, the President of the Government replied very flat-rately, nothing concrete. And he certainly raised further questions and then continued further questions, which he was unable to answer due to the process. Therefore, as far as I can recall, my colleague Barovic suggested that he be given extra time this morning. I now propose that he be given extra time in an extended debate, because the topic is too hot to be answered properly in a few minutes. I am also noticing, although a third package of measures has already been announced, that I have not yet noticed that the first two arrests would have any major impact on the movement for the better. Even more, in the domestic environment, two large companies are at risk of 500, and in another company, 300 jobs, as well as short-term measures, and so on, do not produce the result. It should be possible for the President of the Government, as well as for the teams of ministers who are preparing a rehabilitation programme, to present measures and exchange opinions with us or to listen to any proposal. I will vote in favour of an extended debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u208	Thank you very much. It is because the situation is very serious that I will vote against such a proposal and rather deal with specific issues. The President of the Government has clearly outlined certain measures, and he has also clearly responded with concrete action to the questions in the case of the particular case of Pomurka. I also believe that my respected colleagues and colleagues may not fully know how the measures so far are being observed, I believe they have not noticed that the measures so far have, for example, maintained 8,000 jobs or that they have not noticed that the OECD Slovenia is one of the most successful countries in the fight against the challenges of the economic crisis. Let me get this straight. Given that all the countries in the world are today looking for solutions that were not yet on the table six months ago, and they are all plowing the ice at such a challenge, and given that Slovenia has proved to be successful at this, I see no reason to waste time in such a debate. I think this time is very valuable and rather more specific. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. I will vote in favour of an extended debate to allow the President of the Government to talk and negotiate. I'm justifying the explanation. Today, I know that you have not read, the earring of the 90 Members and Members in the newspaper Delo on the fourth page, when a Member, in this case I, fought for 140 jobs so as not to fail, and sent an initiative to the Prime Minister with a request to stop the liquidation of a healthy company, today the National Assembly has received an answer that reads like this [[I'll tell you translated, can you read]] : "If you do not hold the leper, the 55 disabled we want to keep will go on the road." Read it on page 4, and this is Croat for the surface of everything, owner of Valkarton, I can tell! If that's not enough for you, colleagues and colleagues, if this, ladies and gentlemen, does not sober you up to be here to talk! Once again, I respect the Prime Minister because he wants to work, he wants to, but we don't give him a chance. You don't give your man a chance to tell him what he's done, what he's gonna do! Today, 90 Members received an earring. Once again, "If you don't hold the sponge, we'll drive everyone on the road." If that's not enough, then I don't know what it is. Once again, we will all vote in favour of this widespread debate because it is not only Valkarton, it is not only Pomurka, it is not only MIP, but it is these companies and people over 80,000!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u212	President, thank you for your word. I estimate that, however, we should make a slightly more positive assessment of the situation, as well as this other measure, which concerns short-term subsidies, since it has been made clear that those who are employers and those who are employees have expressed a positive opinion on this measure and say that they have "received". The other thing that bothers me terribly in this House is that once we have to say bob beans, which means that those owners who are actually hiding behind their own [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u213	Dear fellow Campus, allow me! We wouldn't be discussing the content right now. If we discuss this, there will also be a debate on the content in the context of the explanations of vote. Now we want you to tell us how you are going to vote on this proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u214	Thank you, Chairman. I'll follow your advice. Of course, I will not vote in favour of this proposal for a simple reason, because I assess that the third package is one that will have a positive impact. And I think the third package is the one everyone supports. I therefore believe that it is necessary to wait a little while for the third package of measures to be made public and that it will bring what we all want together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u215	Thank you very much. I'm asking you again. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u216	Thank you for your word. Look, I think this debate would be very welcome to find out why this government policy is actually going on. You've probably all noticed that there was no content in the answer, except in two words that are sure [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u217	Mr Grimes, there is no comment and controversy with the government. You explain why you will support or reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u218	That's exactly what I'm trying to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u219	No, you didn't do that. You've gone into trouble with the government, and there are no Members here to discuss this with each other. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u220	listing the reasons why it would be good [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u221	Please hold on to this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u222	for the first time in our lives to respect the Rules of Procedure and to conduct this meeting as it should be. [[...]] We'll talk about this at this session. Those who sighed at this point, Mr President, said the last time in the College that the Government, when it is not a candidate, never has more than half an hour and has therefore again saved time for the applicants. At the previous meeting, the same Mr. Gantar passed the College [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u223	Mr Grimms, first warning. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u224	give the government two hours [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u225	On the second warning, I'll turn off your microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u226	So much for the truthfulness of Mr President. Now let me explain my voice. It's about wanting to know what this proactive policy is. So far, we are only witnessing a proactive extension of the types of people waiting at the employment facility, pro-active financing of the tycoons, and at the same time proactively engaging in the coalition with ourselves, as we call domestically pro-active fighting within the coalition and selling fog. At the same time, we are witnessing a proactive reduction in the salaries of employees, a proactive decline in the Slovenian economy, and believe that everyone in this country would certainly like to know what this content of this pro-active policy of the current government, announced by Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u227	And how will you vote?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u228	Of course I'll vote in favour, because I started Mr. President if [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u229	Mr. Grimes, you don't have a word. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u230	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I support this extensive debate because I have not received a sufficient response. The situation is so serious and I have not received an answer that it is timely action by the Government and that it is also sufficient. I also did not get an answer as to what a proactive policy was, where the government's success was and how the measures were going in the right direction. I didn't get those answers. While it is said that work will have to be done for up to 65 years, I do not know if this measure is in the right direction. I don't know if the bankruptcys of Pomurke, MIP, Swan, Mure, STS, Silkite, LTH measures are in the right direction, so I'd like to have this broad debate. I have not received an answer as to what it means or what it looks like the burdens will be shared fairly. Is it possible to continuously increase the excise duty on petrol in the right direction and to distribute it all in the same way?Oh, my God! I didn't get an answer as to what the government was like. Is it possible that, on 23 March, it increased by one payment grade to all State secretaries?Oh, my God! I would like to get an answer in this extensive debate. I think it is right for the President of the Government to have the opportunity to explain this to us. In this brief reply, which he had at his disposal, he could not explain. That is why, once again, I will support this extensive debate in order to hold a debate in the National Assembly on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Before I put my word forward, on the balcony I welcome members of the delegation of the Finnish Parliament Eduscante [[?]] and wish them a successful job and a pleasant stay in Slovenia. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] We're moving on. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u232	Thank you very much. I will join the two speakers myself, and I will support the broad debate, because I believe that the President of the Government needs to be given the right time to answer all the questions raised about how to get Slovenia out of the crisis. I believe and wish that the 100,000 jobs promised by the predecessor of today's SD would really come true and not come into conflict, that is, 100,000 unemployed, to which we are now unstoppable. Borut Pahor said here this morning, "We cannot defeat the crisis ourselves." And in his second answer, he said, "We know that the government alone is not up to the scale and volume of problems we face." Let us then talk in this House about this crisis. Why are you afraid of that?Oh, my God! And then Borut Pahor also said, "I want to assure you that the government is acting as a team." What team?Oh, my God! That's quite a team out there! Look what the Slovenian media says. Today the Journal writes 24 hours: "Katarina Kresal: Golobič, stop playing and start working!" [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u233	Dear colleague [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u234	It's written tonight. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u235	Friday [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u236	"Pahor's crew in [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u237	These aren't reading exercises from the Journal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u238	Cannot initialise [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u239	Please explain your voice. Please! [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u240	It's not just the Journal. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I still have so much time to reason. [[...]] [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] You're kicking into the dark. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u241	Mr. Friday, you have the floor. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u242	I'd like to answer my colleague Anderlich. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u243	No, you can't answer my colleague Anderlich. Please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u244	So he can only speak the other side. We can't talk, we can't talk in this House anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u245	You have a voice, you speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u246	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u248	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party because we have received clear and accurate answers from the President of the Government as the government faces the financial and economic crisis. We have also received an answer that the Government cannot and must not directly interfere with the operations of individual companies, especially beyond the laws, because this would be a grave violation of the domestic law. You're probably all aware of that. We must also be aware that the policy that we want to reinstate is that they have a special role to play in companies of the supervisory councils, shareholders, corporate administrations and that they are, of course, also responsible for the business of companies. We have heard concrete answers that the Government, through appropriate economic policy measures, is constantly working to facilitate business operations in difficulty. One of these things that we have been able to offer, we have heard that an undertaking that is in difficulty can receive a short-term loan to rescue this company by granting the highest possible state aid under the law on rescue and restructuring companies in difficulty. Companies in difficulty may also apply for an invitation to tender for a favourable credit resource intended to invest in new and finalising existing development projects or for the urgently needed operating assets to be implemented under the Guarantee Scheme Act from the second half of May 2009. These were the specific responses of the honourable Member and Members. I believe that the government does not want a bad situation in Slovenia, but that it wants to solve this situation. As for the specific complication of meat in Pomurka, I agree that it is unacceptable to treat the goods in our society this way. However, the government actively solved the problem with both the Elektro company and the bank, which seized 90 tonnes of meat with notar records. And it was for the intervention of the Minister of Economy that the bank released the confiscation, so that there could be a division of meat between the employees and the sale of the rest of the stock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u249	Thank you very much. I'm asking you again. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u250	Thank you very much. I think it is right to support this debate myself. I think it is right that we also hear in Parliament a story about people called "everybody", "somebody", "anybody" and "nothing". They had to do an important job, and "everyone" was sure they'd "someone" do it. "Anyone" could have done it, but "nothing" didn't do it. "Someone" got angry about it because it could've been done by anyone. "Everybody" thought he could do it again "anyone." "Nobody" didn't realize that anyone would do that. It ends or ends up being "everyone" accused "anyone" because "no one" did what "anybody" could. This is the story of the ruling coalition and of this story, I think it is necessary to discuss in the National Assembly and give the prime minister the opportunity to answer specific questions. That is why I will support the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u252	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will also gladly and urgently support this proposal, because this debate would be particularly useful for all those who are shaking for their jobs every day. We can be aware that a few hundred people lose their jobs every day in Slovenia and are also late every day if they do not act as they should. Whoever has listened to the President of the Government today, although there are many people today who explain that the President of the Government has told everything, he could understand from his discussion that he wants to talk to the opposition about these matters as well. Despite our offer of cooperation in the opposition, which the coalition, of course, rejected, he reiterated his readiness to cooperate with the opposition and to seek the solutions necessary for Slovenia. Let us give the opportunity to discuss these matters openly here, as well as the opposition and the coalition, as well as the government. Anyone else, if not the Government and, of course, Parliament, can find the best solutions to this crisis. So once again, every day we are needlessly late here is at the expense of our employees. That's why I don't understand why the coalition won't support us to sacrifice a few hours and talk here. I'm sure we could find a solution together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Respected and respected! I will also support the proposal that we allow the President of the Government to really explain something about the measures; today's statement by the President of the Government on the third package of measures could use a similar illustration as the Slovenians have in the people's talk about the reason for the fear of children: inside these measures, there is nothing about them. No one really knew what he was talking about, he assured us that the Government was working well, proactively and so on and even comparing the government's work with the National Assembly, as he said to this "high choir, where you also have contradictions". But we're here to argue that we have different views. The government, however, is expected to have people working for citizens there, not to argue. I believe that before today's blackmail of Zares in today's world, he was afraid that he wouldn't say everything, but this doesn't belong in this National Assembly and this High Council, here the President of the Government has to explain the measures that are supposed to work. I don't think a third package would even be needed if the first or the second one were ever caught, if there were some content in those two packages. Unfortunately, we have not yet experienced this content in the National Assembly. And I think that, at least here, Members would understand if these were measures that had content. Today, there was no talk about the contents of the measures, as these measures appear to be empty and there is nothing around them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, President of the National Assembly! I will propose a debate and a discussion on the issue of the decline of our economy, in relation to the political crisis, which is very close to the financial and economic crisis, to support this debate, so that the President of the Government here in the National Assembly, where he was also confirmed and his Government, can clearly say why he cannot prepare serious measures and why this is somehow a game within the coalition or why you are obviously part of the coalition wants the government or that this President to fall as soon as possible. I will also support the proposal for this debate because we receive letters from citizens and citizens. No wonder, it'll be more and more. Today there are over 80,000 unemployed, in September there will be over 100,000, at the end of the year over 120,000. It's time, it's really high time we tried to stop it. But citizens rightly write like this, even though I don't feel alone being the same on this boat, that in normal countries, in the rule of law [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Economic criminals go to jail [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u257	Dear colleague Puksic, we don't have any reading exercises now. Please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u258	Okay, well, then I won't read it, so I'll say it. There criminals go to prison, and we support or write with such criminals because crows don't turn their eyes and then we're all the same. True, those who support it are on this boat. I'd like the Prime Minister to tell you why Telecommunications has moved everything to Ultra.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u260	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dearly greeted Minister, Secretary, Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! I personally support this debate, because I want all of us together to help save these several more ten companies, which may remain. After all, I do not want the same things to happen in the rest of the good economy that remains. So let us work together to help and solve the solutions for these companies that are still in operation for the others that have already gone to waste, anyway, no one will help them anymore. That is why I support this debate in the National Assembly, so that in fact everyone can find a common language and a common solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u262	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Looks like it's a bad, sad day for the Pomurs today. We have already burned down once, this is with my initiative or with the initiative of five Pomeranian Members to introduce higher education programmes in Pomurje. Today, however, everything shows that we will also burn down the second time the SDS proposes a broader debate on the most eccentric cases of non-economics, such as Pomurka in Murski Sobota. It is sad that you do not realize that it is necessary to talk about such matters here, when such economic damage is done, and to call for responsibility from Eles, the electricity industry, to A Bank, until I don't know who can afford to have tons of meat and tons of meat lost for the peeing 25 000 euros of electricity bills. That's embarrassing. And this is exactly in my region, the least developed region in Slovenia. Now tell me whether we are an All-Slovenian Parliament or whether this Parliament is a developed Slovenia and for us nothing at all. Dear Social Democrats, I'm going to blow your conscience a little. Only in Prekmurje [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u263	Mr. Györek Momentek, Mr. Györek. It is not possible to reconcile the explanation of the voice. You cannot refer to a Social Democrat or anyone else in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u264	Mr President, I justify my proposal to hold a debate in Parliament on such cases as Pomurka, Mura, MIP and not to mention further. If we do not discuss this here, yes please, yes then all of your actions, dear coalition, when you carry them out, are indeed bluffs and sand in the eyes of the Slovenian nation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u265	Thank you very much. We're voting. Procedural? Mr. Tanko, would you like to explain your voice? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u266	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the proposal for a debate and I think that this debate is necessary. When we had 6% economic growth, we have heard many times that Slovenia can lead better. Now that we've come to minus 4% economic growth, we hear that we've done everything and that we can't do anything else. We came from a paradigm and it turned into a paradox. Those who said that it was necessary and that they could lead better achieved that things had changed rapidly and radically. In a very short period of time, the unemployed increased by 23.24,000. And every day, stories happen to us when this thing just keeps growing. There is no measure taken by us in the National Assembly to stop this process in any way. That is why I propose, given that we have been invited many times to talk about smart things, to support this debate and to speak in fact about smart things, to talk about what needs to be done, to turn these trends around, to start taking care of the assets, so that they can judge that the damage is greater than what needs to be remedied. It happens to us that our paradigms through parody are turning into paradoxes. And at the end of these paradoxes that we're witnessing, we're going to have a huge meltdown. I therefore propose that you support the debate, that we hold this debate, and that we also agree on what action actually needs to be taken and prepared to make things work and act. This way, when it's just processed and it says that something's wrong, that something's not necessary, we're not gonna move things anywhere. The debate is more than necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-05.ana.u267	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Sreč Krijač, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Prime Minister Borut Pahor to Mr Sreč Krijat's question on compensation requirements and to pay compensation to the so-called deleted. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Aviation Act following a reduced procedure. We continue the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LDS and Res to Article 1. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LDS and Res to Article 2. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 1. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to these articles. I guess not. I note that no amendments have been tabled on the proposal for a third hearing, nor have they been announced. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Private Protection, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 5. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 157.f of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads as follows: "The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the third paragraph of Article 157.f of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights shall not be adopted." We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 4. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the procedure for the adoption of the authentic interpretation has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Company Act is suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - this is by re-decision on the Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax. We are moving on to a decision on that law. At the same time, I would like to point out that in the re-decision in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 4. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the re-decision on the Guarantee Scheme Act of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the National Assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also adjourn the fifth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good-bye.
