ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mag. Anton Rop, Franz Jurša and Jacob the Presester. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 8. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ECONOMIC COOPERATION LAW, IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Minister of Economy, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to present briefly the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to companies. The proposal for a company law implements in the Slovenian legal order the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 July 2007 on the exercise of certain rights of listed shareholders. The main purpose of the directive is to remove obstacles that deter shareholders from voting and to facilitate and promote the cross-border exercise of voting rights. There is therefore a need for certain harmonisation at European Union level. The proposal also contains provisions concerning the regulation of the remuneration of members of the management or control bodies and the addition of provisions on the settlement committee. If I only briefly touch on the main solutions of the Proposal for a Law on Companies 1C. The proposal complements the content and publication of the Assembly’s call. The call will need to be expanded to include additional information needed for shareholders to prepare well for and effectively exercise voting rights in the assembly. A single cut-off day shall be set for participation in the Assembly, allowing the Assembly to participate and exercise voting rights only to those shareholders who are registered as shareholders in the central register of intangible securities at the end of the fourth working day prior to the meeting. The proposal will allow shareholders to participate and vote in the assembly by electronic means. The provisions on the shareholder's right to consider an additional item on the agenda at the assembly and to put forward a counter proposal and to inform the company accordingly. Shareholders of a public company will also be able to appoint the power holders to use electronic means. A person offering to represent an indefinite circle of people will be obliged to disclose conflicts of interest in order to prevent conflicts of interest. The results of the Assembly vote will have to be published on the Society’s websites within two days of the Assembly meeting. What is particularly essential is the fact that the proposal will, by supplementing, lay down the obligations of the management of the Assembly to disclose all the remuneration of members of the management or control bodies for each member individually. This has not been the case so far, since these data were provided only in full, for the administration as a whole. With the amendment of this law, this obligation applies to each member of the management. It will also be necessary to disclose the remuneration of members of management or control bodies in subsidiaries. This provision is very important because there has often been a high degree of opacity where individual managers, even in companies owned by a majority of the state, have received a whole range of additional benefits based on their work or non-work in subsidiaries, in so-called subsidiaries. The Government considers that it is essential to ensure transparency in this area and that it is indeed transparent to indicate the remuneration of the members of the administrations for carrying out their control work in subsidiaries. All information will have to be presented in the annual report and also subject to an audit review. The proposal will allow the Assembly to decide on the remuneration policy. If the Assembly adopts a remuneration policy, all benefits will have to be in line with that policy adopted by the Assembly. This is particularly important because we have faced a number of anomalies in this area. The impact of individual owners on this policy is often too small. It happens that connections between administrations and supervisory councils are intertwined. And in some ways, it's come to the impression that these wage relationships in our society have actually broken or there have been very large anomalies. Therefore, in the Government, we believe that it is right for a congregation of shareholders, where all shareholders are represented, to have the right, and, if you want to, even the duty, to decide on the remuneration policy. If the Assembly adopts a new remuneration policy, it is said in some way to reward the administration, all benefits will have to be paid in accordance with this amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to finish your presentation slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u4	The new proposal also prohibits members of the Supervisory Board from participating in the company's profits. This seems very important to us because there have also been a number of anomalies in this area and supervisors have often paid very large prizes in state companies, although they do not have a decisive impact on the company's performance. This means, as I said, that following the new participation of the members of the Supervisory Board in the company's profits, this novelty will no longer be in line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to representative William Rezman to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! The Committee on the Economy considered the proposal of the law as the parent working body after this proposal of the law had already undergone general treatment and was considered suitable for further discussion. The bill has been dealt with in the Committee, amended, and some open articles are still available for amendment today. As such, he was therefore proposed to the National Assembly for discussion and decision. Representatives of the Government, Minister Lahovnik, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service and interested chambers of commerce participated in the work of the Committee on the Economy, as well as all the Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders, which also contributed material and whose two proposals for amendments were also supported. With the exception of the proposal for a law, the material which served to be dealt with consisted of the position of the Legislative and Legal Service, the two works of the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders and the proposed amendments by two Members, Mr Posedel and Mr Žerev, whom we discussed and decided on the Committee. In the introduction, the minister highlighted what are the key solutions. Since he was just repeating them today, I wouldn't do it again. He stressed the general principles, identified himself to some amendments, and also reasoned on what he supports and what he does not. These arguments by Minister Lahovnik were appropriate for the Committee, so the Committee also followed the majority of its views in its decisions. While the legislature had many comments on the bill, it agreed that most of these comments on the amendments proposed by the Committee on the Economy were being corrected. Thus, the most amendments were adopted on the proposal of the Committee on the Economy. The discussion was later held in particular on the amendments, the seventh, the eighth and the ninth articles, namely the two amendments of the proposed Posedel, which were rejected as not sufficiently technicalally prepared and materially acceptable. That is why we have amended these articles editorially to keep them open, and today we can re-examine them at a meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Posedel's amendment to Article 9 was also dealt with in the same way. Both amendments were also withdrawn by the proposer, which was amended in a different way and thus left open for today's debate. However, the amendment proposed by Mr Žerjav was not accepted, nor was it open, and the Government opposed it and justified it to the effect that it was also supported by the Committee on the Economy. A decision has also been proposed to impose or recommend to the Government to reconsider any comments that have not been adopted and to report it to the Committee, but this decision has not been adopted. The other two decisions were adopted, the first to be proposed to the National Assembly, to put this topic on the agenda of today's meeting, which has also taken place later, and a proposal for a decision proposing to the National Assembly to decide, as a result of a number of amendments to the Company Act, to draw up an officially consolidated text. The Committee on the Economy has included all the amendments adopted in its report. This report, including the amendments, proposes to the National Assembly for its consideration and acceptance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Since it was not possible for the 5th meeting to hold a first reading of the bill to present the views of the groups of Members, we are therefore going to have a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 19th. 5. 2009 to Article 7. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the Zares Group of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u8	Let me just say very briefly that our DeSUS Group supports this amendment. We also supported it on the Committee on the Economy, which, according to our judgment, is correct. In view of the numerous comments on the inadequacy of the individual deadlines and the poor possibility of implementation, if the proposed one were accepted, we have also supported this proposal in order to complete the amendment proposal by today and we will probably all support it after the debate today. The amendments speak of the fact that the basic intention of the law that has been carried along with it is even more acute that we have better information, greater control, greater influence of small shareholders and more opportunities to prevent the abuses that have taken place so far, so this amendment is also supported by the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u9	Thank you very much. There's a word for Lois Posedel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we really support all the innovations and all the changes brought by this amendment to the Company Act, because there are a lot of uncertainties and irregularities in this area, including such things that simply cause real harassment, how such an important area can be so poorly regulated that these emerging forms have accumulated in the last period. That is why we have also made very well-prepared changes proposed by the Government or the Ministry of the Economy to complement or clarify more clearly in this Article 7 for the simple reason that what is being observed is that action and the functioning of the administrations can often be directed primarily towards achieving short-term objectives, and the real results or real picture of the business and operation are reflected in the long term. At that time, it is too late for much, when the awards are paid in the administration, the overseers, and negative forms can be shown. It is therefore envisaged in this Article that certain corrections or things which would allow the Supervisory Board to require the refund of already paid awards for business performance or its proportional part should be entered in the event that the legal capacity to determine the nullity of the annual report and the nullity of the reasons relates to items or facts that have been the basis for certain awards and whether, on the basis of a specific audit report, the criteria for determining the award have been misused or that the decisive accounting financial and other data and indicators have not been properly identified or taken into account. This means opening up the possibility that in cases that prove to be subsequent, the award already paid may also return that this is not only a lonely case in Slovenia, but that such an option, even a request, is also based on both the resolutions adopted by the European Commission this year and they want to regulate the area of remuneration for administrations and supervisors. Thus, it is possible to request the refund of the already paid prize within three years of the date of payment and that members of the Supervisory Board who do not act in accordance with the third paragraph of this Article shall be liable for damages under the general rules of compensation provided for in this law. However, individual shareholders may file an action for damages. I thank all colleagues who, in the Committee on the Economy's debate, supported the intention of this amendment, that it has also been written in such a form that individual amendments were needed, complemented and made. As it is said, I was glad that the intention of what we want to do in the Truth Group and others to change has been given support. This has also been demonstrated in the debate itself when we have found that in the past there have been concrete cases where the remuneration of the President of the Administration or the members of the Administration is decided by the Supervisory Board and a concrete question arises as to how the Supervisory Board may decide correctly if it receives a very good or very good payment for this. We have also shown this in specific cases of banks in majority state ownership, where data exist for supervisors to pay their prizes, received over €200,000 and that this was done even with the consent of the previous government. It is also interesting that the former Minister of Economy, Mr Vizjak, stated that the Government, as Minister of Economy, had never decided on such awards, even though it was the opposite of certain documents. And that is, if the supervisory board and the members of the company's profits are so highly rewarded, then the question arises how properly they can assess the operation of such an administration. With this amendment, this amendment to Article 7 would introduce this clause, which could, within three years, allow for the fulfilment of these conditions of finding whether there have been false data or any other matter which allows the entire prize or part of this prize to be returned, so I propose that we also support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone! No offense, this amendment is pure populism. I will also ask for the opinion of the Minister of Economy. Look, the point of the problem is when and how rewards are determined. If there is a reward in the contract, explain to me how to read the amendment to Article 7 to point 3 and point 4? The Supervisory Board may request the refund of the already paid Business Performance Award or its proportionate part if the annual report is found to be null and void. I'm sorry, I'm not smart enough to understand this term: the inexorability of an annual report. It means, if the annual report is null, the person who led this society was a lump and was working unlawfully and was making an illegal report. Second indent - on the basis of a specific audit report which concludes that the award criteria have been misapplied. Yes, how can false criteria be used to determine the prize, ladies and gentlemen? Don't get carried away, don't lie to people! The criteria were precisely laid down in the case of a person not to be mentioned and very precisely in the contract. And today, shouting through someone who has received a million Euros of prizes, if, what he is, is a mess and a shame because someone wrote this award in a contract with precise elements. And he gave it to him. And this is simply a mere misappropriation and adaptation to the situation with this amendment. It's not fair and it's not fair. And in the law, paragraph 4, the return of the already paid prize within three years. Please! First of all, the economic situation is good, we will, I don't know, allow one million euros last year, then the economic situation will change, and in three years' time we will find the business of business -- in what manner of poverty -- and in three years' time we will require this man to return this reward. People of God, please! However, we must have so much wisdom and understanding in the National Assembly that we cannot accept or tell such populism, explain to me what the permissiveness of the annual report means. That's a lie to a man like that. Not only does it take away the prize, it has to be closed. Three years. Because today is bad, we will now adopt the law and in three years we will ask one gentleman to return the money. It's not right he won such a prize. But who's to blame for getting it? It's the supervisory board who gave him this award in the contract. And if he assigned it to him and if the results of the operation were such that he was entitled to this award, he received it. And you'd be stupid to bring her back. I am in favour of setting the criteria, but the criteria must be laid down earlier in the contract, in the terms, not with these articles and with such sanctions, that we will invent ourselves because the economic situation will be bad in three years to bring one back. Once again, what is the nullity of the annual report, what are the worthless reasons? What right does the audit report have? As far as I know, we have a bunch of audit services reporting on business. What do we do now? Are we going to introduce another auditor to reinvent himself or what? If anything has been wrong, these existing audit services are obliged to warn and tell them in time what is wrong. This is duplicating, misleading for the Slovenian National Party and not fair and unfair. In fact, it is necessary at first, and I hope that Mr Minister, whom I respect, will tell me that I am right - in fact, the award should be set at the beginning of the signing of the contract and it is necessary to define clearly under what conditions this award is justified. It's too late to invent business. If it is found that the conditions are not met, he shall not receive a prize. So did I in the local community as well as probably other colleagues: because it's a recession because the conditions are not met, but you don't get a reward.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Before I applied, Minister Matthew Lahovnik spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Dear Member Barovich! Basically, you're absolutely right. When there's a zero annual report when it's found, then we can say it's a "lumparia." It's the Lumps, because it's clear. However, if we are speaking substantively, what is meant by the nullity of the annual report, we must say that this is also in some way clearly defined in the 401st article. And then Article 401 says - "...the annual report is void if its content is contrary to those provisions of this law which are used exclusively or mainly to protect the creditors of the company or otherwise are in the public interest... etc. that I do not read all the indents. This nullity is very precisely determined in this case. The second part mentioned, as far as the audit report is concerned, even in the case where major irregularities have been identified, should be subject to a specific sanction. Why can the Government in some way support this amendment to this article? In particular, because we believe that the third paragraph in some way clearly determines in which cases the Supervisory Board may require a refund of the prize. The arrangements for the refund of prizes must be very clear and unequivocal, as this is an extraordinary measure which must not in any case become a regular practice. So this is not about the fact that the Supervisory Board would now have a correctional exam, because it would be completely wrong, but it is an extraordinary measure when the annual report is actually nullified, or as you said, if you said at home when it came to obvious "lumparia". And secondly, when the auditor finds certain irregularities. At that time, in some ways it is right for the Supervisory Board to act backwards. However, when we talk about ongoing decision-making, it is absolutely clear and the purpose of this law is also to give the general assembly additional powers to determine the remuneration policy and to ensure greater transparency of such policy. In this sense, we would say that if, until now, the Supervisory Board has made some mistakes if it has acted here carelessly, if it has acted contrary to some good practice, if it has acted contrary to the wishes of the owners, then in fact until now there has been no other sanction. There wasn't much I could do about it. Now this option is different. For the first time, the Assembly is the one where each shareholder can exercise his or her right in determining the remuneration policy. This is particularly important in companies that are in majority state ownership, because now in some ways the state is also citing - yes, there is some independent supervisory council, we cannot influence them, the boys are autonomous. Then all of us together can be surprised at the great rewards that individuals pay. And there are these connections between the boards and the supervisory councils, which I call "small happy family" -- "little happy family of high incomes". And this can be prevented in such a way that an additional tool can be provided to the general meeting of shareholders and that, if necessary, the State, as the majority owner or someone other than the majority owner, may directly intervene in this remuneration policy. And this Article 7 is, as I have said, an additional exceptional measure to be applied, as we have said, when nullity is clearly established. Why a three-year period? While it is difficult for me to speak on behalf of the proposalr, I believe that you have decided to do so because the annual report should be taken into account. It takes some time for the annual report to be submitted, we are talking about a practical year. If an additional audit is carried out, it is again for several months. And then this deadline can be there very quickly for up to three years. But he basically believes that this can't be a regular practice. In that sense, you're right. But this is an additional amendment, so in the government we understand it, intended as an extremely additional means, which can then be used in certain cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u15	Thank you very much. I ask you to report to the debate on the first amendment. The word is Willy Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We do not see things in our parliamentary group, but we ourselves, so that the prizes should be predetermined. We see in this law exactly this advantage that the congregations should now prepare a remuneration policy, monitor it and then act on the basis of conclusions and analyses. If there is no action, then it would be really pointless. But it is for doing so for a number of reasons. We support this for reasons. First time. In principle, the prizes are set in proportion. And at the beginning of the year, when politics is being prepared, there is no telling what the results will be, what the success will be, what the remainder will be. There are some variables here, so it is also necessary to retain the possibility that, given these variables, we will decide with our decisions after the end of this period. Another time. We believe that the award must depend on the results of the work and not be determined in advance. In fact, this is not even motivational for any manager if he knows ahead of time what his reward will be, without trying to justify increasing this award and not always worrying about whether or not he will get the bad part of this prize. We believe that this even affects the motivational development of society and also affects the ability of the manager or management to have success in mind, not only what happened at some point, but what can be estimated at a longer time. Otherwise, too much manipulation is possible, too much data editing and so on and can be abused. This is what the congregation should decide. What other authorities have to decide is not at all the subject of discussion, which will be decided by those who prosecute. And what is included in the prosecution does not belong to the company law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u17	Thank you very much. There's a word for Lois Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u18	Thank you very much. In doing so, I strongly reject the allegations, or the assessment, of my colleague Barovic, that this amendment is a matter of populism and the likeness of the electorate. This is certainly not the style or working method of the Zares Group. Any other claim may be held by this claim. We have already tabled this amendment at a meeting of the Committee on the Economy, where I regret that there was no colleague Barovic present to hear the debates that have come from all parliamentary groups, including the SDS or the former Minister for the Economy, supported this intention, this change that has not grown on our zelenik, but that comes from the recommendations of the European Commission that this comes from developments elsewhere in the world, that there is a need to introduce more transparency into the pay policy, the remuneration of managers and that I strongly reject that today any one of our parliamentary groups would yell at someone who has already received a prize. It is very clear to everyone that if we put an amendment to the law that will come into force by changing not to get involved, not to look back, we are not talking about concrete names, concrete individuals, about the level of the prize, but we are talking about what the Minister for the Economy has also confirmed, which is also the view of the Committee on the Economy, that more opportunities should also be given to the Assembly of Shareholders, that we do not observe what is happening today, that we are all appalled, and then also by the parties that can use populism, and can point to what is happening. This is how congregations are convened, the law is not respected, small shareholders are played, how high rewards are paid, how overseers are rewarded, so that they can vote properly and rightly. All these matters need to be settled and we are talking forward and not backward. That is why I think it is right that in this sense we also understand and accept this amendment. In order not to fall any further, it is certainly not about any hack, about any attack on managers, about administrations, about not throwing any bad light at them, that everyone who works and who is in the leading cities is corrupt, corrupt, which is very easy to say, but it is about bringing more order into the law for this sensitive area of reward, more transparency. And that is also the basic intention and desire of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u20	Thank you, President. I am joining my colleague Posedel in finding that the law is good, very good - we have already discussed this - and this amendment is even better. The amendment essentially explains certain conditions, certain requirements and certain procedures that sanction irregularities, possible irregularities of the administration or supervisors. My colleague Barovic is right about many things, of course, and we know well that he is generally committed to justice when it comes to companies, workers' rights, etc. But this time, unfortunately, it's not right because it's not about populism. Populism would be the opposite, denying the value of this amendment, because once again we are not at a time when an illegal revolution is needed. Logical, meaningful amendments are needed, and a law that introduces some extremely useful novelty is needed. This is that the supervisors will no longer be profited. That moment is crucial. Finally puts the supervisory councils in a position where it is no longer possible, as Minister Lahovnik described in a graphic way, these "happy families" because in fact everything was already agreed in advance, how and what supervisors were the last to be interested in the transparency of all business processes, because they themselves knew that they would benefit from this lack of transparency and that they would participate in some profits that are not, in fact, or in the long term, not. The story of Inter-European is happening these days. 140 million euros went missing in the black hole of Russia's investment. It is this case that shows how we should not act, how we need to pay attention to phenomena where there is serious damage to public interest. Today, in Cyprus, the discharge of the administration of Luke Koper was discussed. If we had, in the previous term, but we also had to recognise the SDS, as we have heard, that it had seen and accepted the logic of change, but if we were to put these mechanisms in place in time, which we now have in place in the new law, such phenomena would not have occurred. Perhaps it is not the case that we are aware of the need for a systemic solution right during the crisis, the recession and the outbreak of discontent, due to the increasing bankruptcy and liquidation of companies requiring a high price in unemployment and social distress. That is why we must respond and offer to society and to all those workers who pay the first price of the economic crisis, some correctness, "fair play", systemic solutions that prevent the further poor practice of certain administrations and certain supervisory councils. For this reason, this amendment is worth supporting and continuing, and this is not the end. I believe that this law and this amendment alone do not address all issues of non-transparentness, poor functioning of administrations and supervisory councils, but there are clear conditions. From now on, it will no longer be possible to act as untransparent and harmful as it has been so far. Of course, we can continue to discuss the formation of contracts. I think that we will have to think about how and what transparency we need to provide for contracts. In particular, in companies that are majority state-owned, I find it immoral to keep these contracts secret to unions and workers. No, no, no. Let us maximize transparency and I think that this law and these amendments are real steps in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word has Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u22	I'll be fair enough not to use the replica because I've been mentioned, but I'll speak in good time. First of all, as a Member of the Slovenian National Party and of this National Assembly, I have every right to express my opinion very specifically on a very specific amendment. Please don't read me that injustice. Secondly, as far as my presence is concerned, it is recorded only by the leader of the parliamentary group, Mr Victory Jelinčič Nobleni. And he tells me or determines when I may be absent. And thirdly, I was too much involved in the consideration of the bill on amendments and amendments to the law, so that some did not even like what I said. Let's be clear, gentlemen. I don't want to politicize what they want. And I'm done with it. All I say is content. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. That's what I expect from the ministers. Such clear and concrete answers. And my claim that I'm going to prove that this moment is for me, this form and this content is a correctional exam to the supervisory board. I'll give you two proofs. Or it is not a duplicity, but look at when and who signed a certain award in a contract to a certain amount. Look. It doesn't matter. I don't care what policy option. It was peacefully signed and the gentleman was peacefully awarded the award on the basis of the signed contract. Or is it not a duplicity that today to this gentleman, and to many that we do not read to them, they have received even greater rewards, and indeed unjustifiable, even unjustifiable, nothing to anyone. Because it's a recession today because it turned out to be, we're against it now. If there wasn't a recession, I believe it, and I know there was a clear silence in this house. And a second time. Yes, you're right, Minister Happy Family. But now I'm going to give you a comparison. But when I criticized the single insurance management system, which allowed this to happen, he did one "happy family" and there was an opposition. You're right. Yeah. The Assembly and they are one "happy family" and it has to be broken. But then it has to be broken in the law I was talking about, which is the Insurance Act, where we're putting in a single system where all the happy families are going to be again. Let's have the same vats for everyone. I will continue to listen carefully to the contents of this amendment to Article 7 and will respect the message. I admit that I have not read Article 241 and will, but thank you for the specific answers. And you too, Mr Minister, because I really appreciate you, even a little bit of this content, and maybe it's getting a little bit better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Alexander Ravnikar has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues. Right now, I'm wondering if we've heard the president or if I'm the only one who's heard him. As far as I know, you've called for a debate on the amendment. This debate was relatively small. I would like to stick to this, and I think that the Government in particular will have to do so, and in Parliament the legislative and legal service will have to speak about the text that has been presented here. For this is the case, I am talking about this amendment to Article 7, where there are many good intentions that I fully recognise and support, but we know that the path to hell is often pressed with good intentions. This can happen in such a case if this is caused by a lack of clarity in the legislation. And I think that the Government, the preparers, and the Legal and Legislative Service will have to take the text seriously from this point of view in the next phase. But I hope they can be prepared early. Now, I'm going to give a little bit of attention to what's bothering me at Article 7. As regards this amendment, I cannot fully discuss it, since it already refers to the criteria referred to in the first paragraph of Article 294. So if we want to make a full statement about this, we should discuss at the same time, or before, what is settled later. But this problem, let's say that we avoid it, we will have to be careful because it is a question because the express duty of the supervisory board to follow it must follow these principles, so it is especially worth looking at them as they are. I think that at this stage, and given that we are a legislative body, we need to look at how they fit into the whole regime brought about by this company law. And let me say now about these good intentions. It is true that it is complemented by such an amendment or in a similar way as to how the refund of the unjustifiable prize should be made or how it should be determined, as we have seen in this first paragraph. However, if then, in the second indent of Article 3, or perhaps there should be a third, of this third paragraph of Article 7, he writes that, with all the information that the report is null and void, that the criteria of the principle referred to in Article 294 were not respected, and I do not know what else, but the Supervisory Board may require legal review and then do something, it seems to me that little is strong. I think that in such a case, if we are already following this construction, we should, as in the case of the definitions, also in such a case. Therefore, I would only call for this to be done so precisely in the light of the current regulation or the current regulation that we should look at the law in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is given by Dr. Matthew Lachovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u26	If we're talking about Article 7, then I'm talking about what it is. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u27	We are now talking about Article 7.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u28	Mr Ravnikar, honourable Member, said that I can very much agree with you. [[...]] I think that this amendment, tabled by the Zares Group of Members, is absolutely acceptable in paragraphs 3 and 4 and 5 and is supported by the Government as such. But the problem is that part that relates to Article 9, as you yourself mentioned. But that part is controversial, and despite good intentions in that part, we cannot support it. Further corrections are needed. That's what the government's views are about. I will then explain further at Article 9, where we have some major reservations.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u29	Good. The debate is now under way on the amendment to Article 7. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, we have amendments to the company law, with which everyone here in this room would probably want to prevent many of the anomalies that have recently appeared in the Slovenian economy. I am talking mainly about the salaries of some directors, the directors' awards, the awards to the supervisory boards. Obviously in this area, the legislation has not been well regulated so far, since the story about the award to the President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank could certainly not have happened. In the People’s Party, we support these efforts, and it is high time that we stop such practices and cut them. To find appropriate dictions in the company law, which will prevent or accurately and clearly regulate the area of remuneration of administrations and supervisory councils. We're thinking that if you come to work, you get a high salary, but if you do something, you have to get a reward, and I don't know what. This applies not only to workers, but also to managers. Of course, we're on slippery ice, and we're not about to take a step back and try to make some kind of a balancing machine. Good and professional administrations should be properly and appropriately rewarded, as is the case elsewhere in the European Union. And here I agree, I think with Mr Posedel, that we must be careful before this hoard of all managers and entrepreneurs, especially those who are good, who are doing good, who are employing a large number of people and who are trying to take their societies forward honestly and properly. However, as far as the amendments are concerned, it seems to me that we have had a conversation on the Committee on the Economy in the direction of the questionableness of some soft dictatorships, and there are still some dictions here that are very soft and inconclusive. And here I agree with my colleague Ravnikar. Speaking of point 3, "member of the board of directors in the management of proceedings and business in society," that is, the indent, "if he has violated the law or the statute of the company, good business practices..." Good business practices can be very, I warn you that they can be a very, very stretching concept and a matter of interpretation of each individual. Which bothers me even more, but point four bothers me. If the assumptions referred to in the preceding paragraph are confirmed on the basis of an auditor’s or a company’s legal review report, this means that it has violated the law, the company’s statutes, good business practices, that the impact on the fact that the items in the accounts were not valued in accordance with the principle of fair value, the Supervisory Board may, irrespective of the contract concluded with a member of the Board, request the return of the Business Performance Award. I think the word "may" is inappropriate. That's where the word "must" should be. This word should be replaced. In such a case, the Supervisory Council cannot decide on the basis of not saying, on the basis of any political considerations or anything else. If it was wrong, he must act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Happy Friend has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I personally believe in Dr. Lakhovnik's well-intentionedness, and I believe that the amendment to Article 7 is somehow necessary, but I do not know why so far it has not been accepted to protect that such "pigs" could be prevented. When someone receives 1 million Euros of prizes, I believe that this case is not lonely, for some people is not known, but we cannot act or have no legal option, it is unacceptable, we are complementing this in the law in such a way that the overpaid matter is required to return within three years and in such a way that responsibilities are once again avoided by the entire supervisory world. The supervisory authority, all those sitting in the supervisory authorities, shall be responsible for taking legal decisions with their assets. If that were true, then one of these overseers would have to recover something from his own pocket if he made a wrong decision or made a decision to the detriment of the company. And that didn't happen. At least I don't know this practice. I don't know about this case. Supervisors also receive excellent prizes. And these awards sometimes exceed the annual earnings of one average worker. Nobody talks about it here. But it's not the subject of this debate either. And I'm sure in such cases, when someone gets so much money, it's an organized criminal association that they can't adapt to their own contract, and write it themselves just because he's the president of the administration. That's practically impossible. If all of us were loyal and just, and if we all were to work by law, we wouldn't let him do it, there would be a switch. So it's some kind of organized crime. And if we talk in the National Assembly, to whom we share the budget with our hands open, with our hands full, we can quickly identify: the deleted, the privileged and the Gypsies. We're dealing with these, we're changing laws for these, we're essentially opening state cash registers for them. You don't care about the workers anyway. Even when we speak of this will of Brussels, third parties, vines, this account will be paid again by Who? [[...]] People, citizens and citizens. We're going to encourage this accessibility to the highway, and you're going to give them this bill. The fact is, if you want to get the guardian ready, I will, of course, support it, because it's better than nothing, but in three years, asking someone to return what they unjustifiably got to me seems a little ridiculous. You know, that's what kids do. It's not too serious. However, I believe that this government can take a faster, more life-saving action and that, where irregularities are detected, it can immediately introduce an audit, not then. Supervisors must decide, on the basis of the sworn auditors, whether or not the operation has been lawful. Not after the suspicion has been made, when the criminalist has come to the door, but only then will we be doing the audit. You sold the general voyage without having previously done the actual calculation of the value of the company. You sold it without it. Audit report, the Court of Auditors is only now engaged in the business of this company, when we have already donated it to a foreigner. We didn't even know what we were selling it for, and what the value of this company was, and we sold it, at home, in the minister's office. And as long as such matters happen unpunished, even by supervisors who bring home a thick envelope each month, and until we get more lifeguards, it's a big wound patch that won't stop the bleeding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u33	I would like to remind you all together that we are discussing what you highlighted, based on the review of the amendments you received on the table and it has a date of 19. 5. 2009 And this amendment, tabled by the Zares Group of Members, is in this review of the amendments to avoid any misunderstanding. We continue the debate. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Minister, you will have your word as soon as the application is complete. First of all, Dr. Matthew Lahovnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u34	Just one explanation that there will be no misunderstandings about the deadline of three years. The refund of the already paid prize may be requested within three years of the date of payment of the prize or of the work of the prize. That's the deadline. But it's clear they can demand it right away. Some deadline had to be set. Some meaningful hand, and that's the deadline. This does not mean that they have to wait three years or two and a half years later. Of course, it can be required substantially earlier. As a rule, this would also be expected and necessary, so that there would be no misunderstanding that it would not be possible earlier. And this is also the purpose of this article to set a framework term. But clearly, in this part, I fully agree with you if someone waits three years, and then, as you might say, that train has already driven to a large extent. That's why, as I said, it's a deadline.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is Marian Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! I think that the amendment to Article 7 is urgently needed, but is properly defined and with the right criteria. There is no way I can agree that we are actually cleaning up again or looking for things when, in the end, she will not pay back money from certain people who have actually received these fabulous profits. However, it is right that the rule of law actually regulates this position by law in order to be as it should be. I also cannot agree with the fact that a fellow Member has indicated that the Supervisory Board requires a proportional return of the prize from the members of the administration. There can't be a proportional return. The return must be whole or nothing. The return may be when the actual audit house determines whether there are irregularities. The management can neither the supervisory board nor the management of the administration pay the prize until all the criteria are clearly set. We're still talking about an extra audit house. It's irrelevant. In Slovenia we have to do this by taking away the licence from the audit house, which is not filed and does not recognise the business's business. This has not happened in Slovenia, except in America. Why would we create state bureaucrats, someone else who would oversee another audit house? That doesn't make any sense. That's what the court is all about. I would add that in fact we must all be aware of what we are doing and of how the laws must be written and how someone is doing his work assigned to him. I absolutely agree that the awards of administrations and supervisory councils have gone to heaven. I don't know if any country is going through these awards that are being paid to us at these levels. It is therefore important, in Article 7, to give clear criteria, what and who can do, or what reward someone deserves. However, for irregularities, I think it makes no sense for the State or the company to lend to the person who did the wrong thing for three years. The deadline must be now. I hope that in this Article 7 we will do so many good things that there will be no more manipulation, manipulation in companies as is happening now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u37	Thank you. The word is given by Dr. Matthew Lachovnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u38	Thank you. I would explain to the honourable Member Bezjak - if given immediately, it would mean that this deadline would be substantially short and it would not be possible to exercise any responsibility in return. This is precisely the purpose of not being too short, but of course a three - year limit is set, which makes sense. If we wanted to make it whole or worse, we'd give it five years. This is the option, of course, within a five-year period. But if you give it a year or so, it would mean that after 13 months, you can't do it anymore and tie their hands together. That's not the point. That's the logic of this three-year bounce. It can't be too short, not too long. Because if it's too long to get divorced, if you give, I don't know, five, ten years is probably preposterous or twenty years. However, if a year were to be given, we would be risking that, or those who want to act, the provisions would be completely tied together and that the provision would not be effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary. I myself support the provisions or these proposed solutions in Article 7. I agree even more with the first version of these solutions with 12. Five, and I have no reservations at all. I think this should have been long ago in this company law. But the basis of the sin of this law is that it is out of order, that it is too long and that in the end no one knows what it really is in this marriage. And this marriage basically made a liberal nest. From that nest, you have landed all those who are proposing proposals today, and you have at one time become sensitive to justice in society. Why this tenderness was not at the time when you were making a basic marriage and it was anticipated what managers could do. Managers had instructions on how to make profits on other accounts, parallel companies to own. This was done with your hand in your hand. We have clear evidence, that's what they said. From the largest power centers in the country. Forum 21, for example, is typically such a nest where they had all the support from top to bottom. I don't doubt the Minister's well-intentionedness, either, but I fear that this Article 7 has now been amended and that what the party really proposes is in a very difficult relationship with the European elections. Desiring really to come to the European Parliament. I supported it. It is also the Minister's wish to skip the page with preferential votes and come to the European Parliament. I believe that it is not pleasant at these times to be an economic minister, that it is five times more comfortable to be a European Member. That's a fact. If the Minister had such a terrible feeling, he would have suggested this four years ago, which was proposed here, and Posede proposed. First of all, Kramar's prize was not disputed whether the country would get it back or not. If only four years ago, when he was an economic minister, he had suggested something like that. I believe that Vizjak did not propose either, only the Visionary would be eaten by the Association of Managers if he suggested such a thing because the association of managers is a sub-organization of Mr Golobič, who made it in 12 years when he was a staff member in state companies. Finally, Mr Kramar also appointed Mr Golobič, the party's chief. Our minister, I'm critical that he didn't do it, but he didn't have a chance. That side you blocked some laws with obstruction, you couldn't accept them, absolutely not, Mr Gantar, you know how you worked, you were so strong there that we couldn't adopt the law. Mr Rezman, Mr Žnidaršič, you always supported that side when we accepted it, we couldn't. That was the situation. There's a lot of dishonesty in here. What was proposed or suggested was that a member of the board who would influence that the items in the financial statements were not evaluated in accordance with the principle of fair value, etc. I in this House, when I was elected, 1996, from the proponent, then we all went to the pay phone, presented accurate data from the former company. When the director was an admirer at the same time and I noticed his writing in the note when it was done systematically. The grading exams were done on Ptuj, the commission came there - it was paid well, of course - and this is what I said to Minister Dragonji, whom I appreciate, but also from this LDS nest. I claimed responsibility where 100 million dollars went from the company, which was clear that it had disappeared. Minister Dragonja said, over there on the coffee table, I'm not strong enough because Mr. has support from the highest peak. And now I see that the gentleman appears to be a candidate for the Supervisory Council of the Bank of Slovenia, some even mention him as director of the New Ljubljana Bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u41	Dude, maybe you should focus a little more on the amendment, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u42	No, no, that's in the amendment, who influenced the accounts. It's all in there. And, gentlemen, let's just accept this, just stop taking it with a fig in your pocket, like you've been doing with a fig in your pocket for 16 years. Stop doing that in your pocket. Start believing what you write on paper, not just in the function of election to the European Parliament. It is legitimate that you are working for the European elections. I saw it on TV yesterday, I'll even say protest if I'm a little ironic that the Cranian mayor [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u43	No, no, look, you don't have to comment on TV shows, but we have a debate on the amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u44	in relation to the European elections, this is linked to these amendments. [[...]] European elections [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u45	The European elections are not related to these amendments, but to European legislation, please, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u46	The parties are indeed very closely associated with this legislation and with these articles and these amendments. [[...]] She's a cause star, Mr. President, and don't deny it if you're from the same party. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u47	Dear colleague Jerovšek, let us remain within the framework of the amendment, leaving the European elections out of this context. You set that context, no one else.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u48	Yeah, it bothers you, but we need to tell people transparently. Now, look, this is well written, it could be even worse, I mean, sharper or more specific, because now is an opportunity, we will support it. We couldn't in the previous term, because there was only one party who was led from the outside, and this was seen in the setting up of their minister, and it was constantly against such solutions. But now it's possible, let's write down very sharp dictions so we can at least do something forward. I don't know, but of course we're not going to avoid the thousands of options that a group of managers has to prepare, how they're supposed to do their passports, and drive around here. These are fictitious contracts and fictitious payments, as did Mr Jankovic from the Ljubljana municipality in Mercator. A million euros for a fictitious business. Today in the paper, he hasn't escaped in court yet. He hasn't escaped yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u49	Dear colleague Jerovšek. It is really wrong to comment on things that are simply in some court proceedings, however, to mention names. We are talking about the general rules and rules that apply to all equally. That's what everyone's been up to. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u50	The same applies to all of them. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u51	and I would ask you to limit yourself to this debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u52	Mr President, I thought that you were taking up justice in society, but unfortunately, I see some things bothering you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u53	You meant it right.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u54	Look, this is, I don't know why it's been happening lately, too, what the customer has really proposed on this tax. That's what I've been supporting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u55	It is not the subject of today's debate at all. Please stop this debate. Please return to the amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u56	To the amendment, what this amendment entails, I say, about returns and all that. What could be backward within three years - the return of the prize. I'm saying, well, let's move on, but if the Minister had done this four years ago, we wouldn't have made any further decisions, we'd rather consider this a crime. And, gentlemen, many of these awards and what they have done with the banks to save the banks once again, these are crimes, this is the 350th article of our Penal Code: "Who is trying to bring the Republic of Slovenia into subjection," and they put it into submission because it cannot be obtained from outside the loans by the Ljubljana Bank. Mr Kranjc says that our bank from the outside is limited to obtaining loans that could be taken by the economy. Banks and states have been brought into subjection. And I expect the Minister to say here, I will ask the Home Minister, and the Justice Minister, in accordance with Article 350 of the Penal Code and Article 357 on Sabotage, to have them put on cold ground. That's what I expect from the minister to be very involved. If he does something about it, he will have a better chance in the European elections. But it is not only the European elections that he should think about. And the party really shouldn't just think about European elections. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u57	Dear colleague Jerovšek, I am looking at Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure. Please be aware of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u58	I am aware of the Rules of Procedure, and I think it is important for our constituents of whom we are elected, and for the citizens, it is important that we make these connections. Let's accept this, but you also need to provide something that will go towards making the police truly independent. That those fictitious transactions would be able to prevent passports, contracts, those, thirds. Because now that Kresalov wants to replace Gorska, the director, because he went on the Jankovic case with the investigation forward, it's outrageous. Otherwise it will turn out that we accept this only because of the European elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u59	Thank you very much. There's a word for Lois Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. At the moment, the only happiness is that there is no audience on the balcony. Because if you notice when the audience is [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u61	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u62	When the balcony is full, then Mr Jerovšek has an even greater motive for performing. He didn't have any quotes today, no poems, obviously, because there's not enough audiences. Otherwise, colleague Jerovšek, I am sure that you have listened at the outset because I do not want to believe that you did not understand, or even worse, that you do not want to understand what has been said and what is stated is that this amendment of the law of work is not due to the European elections, but to comply with the Directive of the European Parliament, and the deadline for this is August 2009. And here's the reason, but not then all of your involvement and involvement of individuals in this story. And I'm equally glad that you said that you would support this amendment, that the time had come and you were wondering [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u63	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u64	Too late. [[...]] I'm sure it's been four years. However, these four years have passed, your government has been in power, which has not adopted this legislation. You pointed to Mr Lahovnik, who proposed taking over legislation as an opposition Member and did not want to put it in the process in time. That is why certain things have happened in the field of the economy. When you talk about some imaginary connections between your phantom forum 21 and the management club, how they affect the awards, how they are directly linked. Take a closer look at the conclusions of your government, how directly your government has decided how to determine and pay astronomical awards in banks and businesses, even though I am sure that you will not want to know this, as the Committee on the Economy did not know or want to know about the former Minister of Economy, Mr Vizjak. On the explicit question whether the Government had participated in this, he said no. Not to the government, not to the Minister, have they not been involved in the payment of high, astronomical awards to supervisors in the NLB. And it's bad if the Minister of Economy really didn't know. It is even worse if the former Minister of Economy on the Committee on the Economy has lied. In any case, I am sure that this law is good, that it is also a good amendment, and I am pleased that colleagues Ravnikar and colleagues Žerjav have proposed an improvement. Therefore, on behalf of the proposer myself, I propose that the word "may" be replaced by "the sea" and that the last sentence in the first paragraph be deleted, as explained by Mr Ravnikar. "It is said that if the assembly has not established..." and so on, this last sentence is deleted and the word proposed by Comrade Žerjav to "may" be replaced by "sea". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes, did you have procedural procedures? Did you have procedural procedures? No, no, no. New application, of course. The word is Willy Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u66	This speech by Mr Jerovška was very fun, even for me anti-stress, but it was not particularly serious. And when he has just mentioned Member Rezman and Ambassador Žnidaršič, let me say that we do not have the ability that he has to always do as the client orders. It's not working. What kind of ability we must be lacking. And the fact that at times one’s own mind is on his own, this is not supposed to be a weakness, it is supposed to be an honor in the National Assembly. As far as marriage and amendment are concerned, the following is concerned. This amendment and the law must be meant systematically or abstractly and not written for the sake of the New Ljubljana Bank. Whoever understands it like that probably understands a mistake. Therefore, let me remind you that the implementation of the directive adopted in 2007 is long ahead of the million prizes in our country, because they have found faults elsewhere in Europe and the world. We're just implementing them with some delay. And if we adopt such a law and such an amendment, then we will probably give ourselves more opportunities to prevent certain abuses or good wages for bad work or if we prevent them, at least we will be able to sanction them.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to apply for a debate. Dear fellow Jerovšek, you will have the opportunity to do this replica at the same time. You can do it. First, I'll give the replica to my colleague Jožet Jerovšk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Two of my colleagues replicated. My friend Rezman says I'm not serious. I hope he doesn't assume that because the cut is a man, in German, the other half, that he would be a serious man, I don't think he thinks he's a serious man because of that last name. With regard to my colleague Posedel, whom I appreciate, I'm a little surprised that he's in the role, I'm going to say a metaphor that won't be misunderstood, "the devil's lawyer" lately. He's a serious man, and I don't know why they gave him such an assignment to defend and attack. Mr Posedel, we know each other from this house, I've been acting the same for 13 years, and I've spoken the same. There's no sign of him here. I am sometimes unhappy that our government has not been happy, but this award at the Ljubljana Bank, which was concluded with the knowledge of Mr Golobic, he has appointed this director. At the end of his term of office, Mr Lahovnik was Minister of Economic Affairs. A lot of things could have been done four years ago. Do you agree with that? Then the minister of our government would deal with other problems and these strong anomalies would probably not have occurred because you would have had moral legitimacy to act as a true opposition even when our government had no leverage when they refused to accept it. What Mr Rezman says is that he did not listen to the party, because when they put up this government, he was not a party member, but he took over the party, and he said, but we will not import any candidate for minister, etc.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u69	Comrade Jerovšek, you go over the scope of the replica and you go to the debate. You can also sign up for the debate if you want, but you're going through the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u70	These arguments with which they replicate are completely unfounded. [[..]] If they're honest about these positions and if they're in these positions for four years, then, thank God. I just doubt, I reiterate that I think that really in this point, the party is primarily in the role of European elections and that it is necessary to tell the electorate that it is a day-to-day tactic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that the proposers of this amendment are changing on the basis of a debate for the better. Perhaps there will be something added in this debate that will lead to an even better amendment. I would've [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u73	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u74	Of course, I agree that the Supervisory Board instead of the "may" that this changes to require a return. However, after writing, for business performance, or not a proportional part; I would make a point there in "business performance" without its proportional work. Indeed, there is no reason for any proportionate part of the return if the nullity of the annual report is legally established. That means why we should get anything, or why I think other authorities should come forward and file the matter with the prosecution. The second indent states that this award shall be reduced if the audit report finds or the auditor finds that they used incorrect criteria to determine their prize. Yeah, well, please, with the wrong criteria, I've set myself 500 grand, and now I'm going to get, not 500 grand, but I'm only going to get 100 grand. That's what someone meant. So that proportional part would still be deleted. And one more thing, Mr Minister; we know very well, many times it happens that when some individuals become members of administrations, members of supervisory councils, etc., what they do with their property, they transfer it to their closest family members. And then with the rewards they're going to get, they buy, I don't know, they're going to melt into something and then they're going to rewrite it to their family members because, I agree, it's probably a time to figure it out. As you wrote, this will return within three years, of course, they have the opportunity to manipulate at this time. Then what can you take? Nothing, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, [[0.0]] . And that's the problem. And I would also write in this law that property cannot be changed from what someone has when they become a member of the board or a member of the supervisory board in an economic company whose majority owner is a state, because we are talking about whether the bank can't get it back, to rewrite it in any way. Or that it also applies to assets that he then alienated from family members, in one way or another, subject to the possibility of settlement or payment of overpaid prizes, as well as other machinations that occur during that time. You know, I don't want to see what happened again in 1994, when the Penal Code changed, just so that the scoundrels who had been convicted of law allowed them not to stay for one minute. However, to the parliamentarians who had warned about this, colleagues and colleagues were tried in Slovenian courts and paid a fine for pointing out this. It's a reality. It's reality, it's history, it's written down, it's clear. I don't want him to be able to go on "machine" with things like that. Minister, really write the sharps, even sharper. Support, you've heard, this time you have it in the opposition. And let's put some things in such a way that they're really more transparent, that everyone can't just play them like that. I believe in, maybe I'm still so naive that I believe in the well-intention of a lot of people. But it is true that I know that some are already reading among these amendments how they will look for holes and curves. So, delete the proportional part and put the property of those who are just going to be in here so that they can't alienate this property and that these things finally stand out as they should be in some normal country. Last but not least, I will never understand that the directors of state-owned companies and, of course, supervisors and so on, may have higher salaries, prizes and I do not know what, like the President of the Government or the President of the State or even the Resor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word is "Silven Tiny." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary. I'm surprised why? Why, after so many years, I think the same option is being carried out, and now it realizes that the previous marriage has been bad and now deserves to be changed. Why not before when the contracts were signed? Now is the time of payment, but it is not possible to prevent it. No one has now noticed the overpaid directors, no one has ever wondered what the prizes of supervisors and even fewer directors are. Everyone was paid for regular and honest work, which does not mean that they still deserve a reward, but it has always been designed for outstanding achievements. The remuneration of administrations should always be clear and transparent. I don't know what you've been doing. Apparently, such things were tolerated, which now turns out to be bad. The introduction of more rules into laws and better transparency is certainly welcome, as the current actions of the administrations have proved to be short-term and there have been no long-term objectives as expected. Each shareholder has the right to exercise his or her right and this must become a rule. The changes are urgent, which is why we will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u77	Thank you very much. He wants the word "minister"? Please, Dr. Matthew Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u78	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to point out explicitly once again that this possibility, when we talk about supervisors and supervisors' responsibilities, does not burden them with establishing appropriate criteria. It can't be. An amendment to Article 7 may not be a kind of correctional examination either. It's an extreme possibility. It is explicitly stated that the Supervisory Board may request the return of the already paid Business Performance Award if the legal capacity of the annual report is established and, of course, if the audit report finds that the criteria for determining the award have been misapplied. If I say plastic. If a formula has been established and the auditor finds that this formula for determining a certain award has been successful, let's say that the firm has been successful, that the supervisors have decided that the management award has been awarded, but finds that this formula has not been properly used and that on the basis of the auditor's report it has proved that there has been an overpaid award, there is now a possibility that the refund of the overpaid prize may be requested. That's what this is about. As far as the European elections are concerned, the issue is that I am here to collect the preferred votes. This has nothing to do with European elections, but it has to do with what is happening at European Union level. Indeed, fundamental changes have taken place throughout the European Union in this area and we are coming from the European Union's recommendation that, in certain cases, things need to be regulated in the same way as we propose, the European Union's recommendations. Slovenia has nothing special in this area. See what is happening, what is the debate in the US in the European Union. In fact, it was completely different than it was a year ago, two, three. Today's major global economic crisis has also opened up important debates on corporate governance, on fundamental principles, on recommendations. One part of these recommendations is also the changes we are introducing here today. That's all this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Milenko Ziherl has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Minister! I believe that this amendment shows support for this article, as it is going in the direction of regulating the matter in this area. However, I would somehow agree with my colleague Puksic, who expressed doubts about how to recover within this three-year period. I kind of imagine if someone has a bad conscience that before being subjected to the procedure, they will make sure that they are properly transferred to the Cayman Islands, to their wife, and to the by-pass, etc. There is also doubt as to whether or not Kramar will return the overpaid prizes in the current state, as we are witnessing in the daily press a great deal of publicity. Above all, I would like to see the law applied to companies now in crisis, such as LTH and Myp. Finally, I might say that Club 21, there is no phantom body, there are specific names, there are specific companies involved, and if we make connections between them, we will soon find out that we are in a very complicated mosaic, because there are financial flows between these connections and eventually you don't know who's controlling who anymore. Let's say we get to a couple like this when person A controls B, B-A, where is the third that controls both of them together. And I also see here the possibility that this article will regulate or at least slightly limit this household, some congestive economic climate, where there is no opportunity for young, prospective entrepreneurs, for small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word is Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected minister with co-workers! Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about these deadlines, one year or three years, I have to say that I have no problem here, and I fully agree with the Minister that it can be three years, in fact, it has to start. Although I would have gone a lot further here, I simply should never have aged this matter. War crimes never get old. These are such terrible things that some individuals so rob this country, some individuals, that it goes beyond all limits. Wiesenthal has been chasing these people for the rest of his life. And he found them. And anyway, whatever happened, it kind of happened. You just have to start fear in these people and cut their fingers off a little bit. Look, we've come to see that in the country the most capable people are fleeing from one environment to another. This is what happens in judges, in lawyers, they prefer to work in private work, and then simply, I would not say that the country is not capable, only the most likely one is spinning so quickly, that simply those people who are capable, not many of them, are not partial to those people who have made themselves or have come to such a practice, that more or less we see that the country is simply not a match for them. They get good lawyers, they get whole teams of lawyers, and they're taking the case that way to succeed in their own ends. That's what I'd say. If these entrepreneurs, these people, transfer their assets to their family members, this can be traced. It should simply be introduced that this is to be followed and even if this matter is to be taken out of the country or transferred. If it is found that in this part of the property is the property that has been unjustifiably acquired, it should simply be recovered. I think that we can commend the Minister in this matter, as well as the amendments and all the things we are talking about today, are taking us in this positive direction. But it's really hard to write this right. I think that if we have to work any longer, let us work even further to come to a conclusion that is truly effective. However, I am afraid that in our country we have accepted many such things, we have had many good debates already, but practice shows that we do not reach a positive and effective conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? I'm asking you again. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u84	Thank you very much, President. Article 9, are we at Article 7?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u85	We're at the 7th. Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u86	It's just a few seconds, so I just want to point out once again the essence of the amendment, I think, of proportionality. The proportionality of profit is participative and I am saying this at this point in favour of this because I would like to draw attention to the fact that profits not only create management but also other employees and that we will have to return to the Act on Participation of Workers and Compulsory Participation in Profit, although one of the coalition parties does not.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 7? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the Zares Group of Members. Please, for your application. Colleagues, I don't know now, the proposaler is the last one now, and we're going to have to agree at the College once that the proposaler might have the first word, but anyway, we're going in order. The word is Matevž Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u88	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Respected and respected! Personally, I think the content of the amendment to Article 9 is welcome. However, I also think it makes sense to define both general and specific principles as a basis for determining the remuneration policy of members of management bodies, which is the intention of this amendment. This amendment, in fact, redefines the success of the company. This amendment provides that the variable share of the remuneration must depend on predetermined and measurable performance criteria. In this amendment, for example, it sets the scope of business activities, creates added value, market value, etc. It may be more appropriate for further consideration here to consider setting these criteria in a tax way, based on the results achieved for a period of at least three years. It is also very important to continue this first indent of the first paragraph, which states that, I quote, "the measure of effectiveness must also contain specific criteria of a qualitative nature for the development of social responsibility, social, environmental and so on." We're going to come to the heart of the problem of what a successful company is actually for us. For me, a successful company is not an undertaking that achieves good business results, but does not adequately take care of its employees. Taking care of employees, decent pay, orderly and healthy conditions, are for me among those items that can be measured in the interest of the harmonious development of the whole society. We all know that the very absence of this consistency is the source of growing social inequality. The high receipts of administrations and supervisory councils actually hurt because they are clearly at odds with what workers and workers get for their honest work. I therefore propose that the procedure in Article 9 should be followed by an amendment which would include social security and the welfare of employees and adequate working conditions among the criteria. I propose that the commitment on the social and environmental social responsibility of companies already contained in this amendment be defined more precisely. This would, in my opinion, also provide a good incentive for management to work more actively towards the favourable position of its employees. This crisis also teaches us, among other things, that the motive for people's good work is not fear, but only security, prosperity and one wide open social perspective. This should be the basis of social change, which should be pursued more courageously in Slovenian society as well. Many times, however, we hear that this crisis is also a crisis of values. This is particularly the case with the opposition SDS. I basically agree with that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u89	My friend, I'd like to ask you to discuss the amendment. Don't go too far into other subjects, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u90	Mr President, if you will allow me, I think I have been very loyal to the Rules of Procedure in what I have said so far, and I have spoken exclusively about the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u91	That's right, so far you've been.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u92	However, I am talking about the need to incorporate ethics into this amendment. As long as we hear statements from the visible representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party, as is the newly elected member of the SDS Executive Committee, Dr Žiga Turk, we will not be successful in determining this ethics and honesty in the management and control bodies of Slovenian companies. The former Minister for Development said: "Let companies draw on all forms of state aid that they can, even if they do not need it." This expresses one dishonesty towards society, dishonesty to public finances and I think there is also an opportunity in this amendment that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u93	Dear colleague Frangež, this is really not part of this amendment! Is Importance of Theme [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u94	That kind of thing. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u95	Thank you. Alexander Ravnikar has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you, President. Dear participants in the session! I will touch only a few places in general principles, but in a desire which I have already stated in the previous debate that the text would become consistent, so that the law could be written down, and that it would show what was actually going on. From this point of view, the term 'long-term sustainability of society' disturbs me in general principles in the first indent. I know it's an English translation, but abstinence in Slovenian means anything other than what may have been the intention of the proposer. So, asceticism and its feats wouldn't be wasted right now, all I'm warning you is that this is where it needs to be cut. In the second indent, it is a question of the integrity of the terms and their importance. What are the total remunerations consisting of a fixed and moving part of the remuneration if these terms are no longer applicable later. The total remuneration shall include a variable part which does not exist above. Maybe it's moving. Although variable means variable, it is acceptable, not movable. So that a little bit more, let's say, precision would go on in this area. And secondly, how does this uncertainty define how the fixed part of the remuneration is, I only point out that it has to be clear which performance criteria are involved. In the third indent, only the indication in brackets, in the second and third rows, would be addressed. For the scope of business activities there are a number of criteria, so, here, I think, it won't be problematic. The question is whether or not they will be explicitly mentioned, or whether they will be mentioned at least for example. Creating additional values is already controversial. In business and economy, macro and micro, we know the added value. Is this meant to be of any other additional value, I would be very interested. I just don't understand why it would actually work. Third, creating market value. Best of all, I'll say, normal expression at first sight, but market values of something. My shoes or something? We'll have to tell you what kind of thing this is actually about. Finally, because I said that for all four indents, in general principles, I would suggest that they be reviewed. At the end of the fourth time, when he says that payment of the variable part must be deferred for a certain period of time. I don't object to such an idea if it's nicely carried out in law. But I wonder who we're giving discretion to for a decision from three to five years? And whether this discretion is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav. Please. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There's no minister. Colleagues and colleagues. So I see that Mr Ravnikar and I are actually thinking exactly the same thing. I also wrote myself whether they are a moving part and a variable part of which, so on both options, is in this article a speech whether it is the same thing or not, so, different things. My question is also about these measurable criteria. These criteria are very difficult to measure. And apparently, given that it's been added and so on. not all of them are listed. In my opinion, all and especially those that are easily measurable should be listed. Is that profit or is that income? Is that, by the way, it says "creating additional values," I think it means "added values". In short, I would expect to state here the criteria that are very clear and easily measurable. And I have another thought, in this point, when it comes to specific principles for determining the remuneration work policy when it comes to retirement, it says, "Can't be paid off if the termination of the contract is due to inadequate results." This doctrine of "inadequate results" can, of course, be a very stretching concept. The company could have made 100 million profits in the year before, 50 million euros in profits in the current year, and on this basis we can say that this is an inadequate result. Which, of course, is questionable. In short, this "inadequate result" should be defined more precisely. Whether this is a negative result compared to the previous year or this is a loss. In short, define more precisely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u100	Thank you. It is quite contrary to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party and, of course, to our assessment, Article 9. And it grieves me, or our understanding is that Article 9 has been supplemented by Article 7. In my personal opinion and in the opinion of colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, it should be the other way around when we have some clear views, such as those set out in the amendment, which states what the total remuneration is, what is the variable part, the payout, when and how, the payment or the purpose of the discharges, when these departures are made. That's the point. When we have this base, we have prevention, then we can build and upgrade a concrete amendment, which is substantively, I agree with my colleagues before me, which is substantively necessary for finishing, is necessary. But what is the point when we have this, when we have these bases sometimes, to whom, how and why, then we can take into account the contents of the amendment to Article 7. That's our understanding. Maybe the government will tell us we're thinking wrong, but that's the point. I agree with the amendment to Article 9. I support it, although we have basically assessed in the first reading in the Slovenian National Party that the fifth and sixth paragraphs of Article 9 may not belong directly to the Company Act, but this law is so important that it is better to leave and upgrade it. We support the amendment to Article 9. We support him, although he'll probably fall, according to what he says, because he's unfinished, but I think it's good to finish him off and leave him. And I insist that the amendment to Article 7 has complemented this, because first preventive matters need to be settled, to lay the groundwork, to lay the conditions for when, to whom, to what and how and then the consequences which we understand are set out in the amendment to Article 7. Yes, colleagues from Zares, we support this article. However, the agreement will be whether we will be complementary to it or whether the government will give an assessment and an assessment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u101	Thank you very much. There's a word for Lois Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This Article 9, the amendment to this Article, is tabled because of what has already been said in the debate at Article 7, because of what is happening in the area of remuneration, in the area of wages, not only and not only in Slovenia, but in Europe, in America and that many of the instruments adopted, have been recalled. If I mention, several times today, the recommendations of the European Community's Commission on Wage Policies and that it was also at the G20 meeting, it is said, the most developed, in the framework of this meeting, discussed the management salaries, that it was also exposed there to address these dilemmas, these emerging anomalies, this imprudentness and complexity that occurs when wage policy is focused primarily on the direction of long-term monitoring of performance or the results of operations. In thinking, which somehow shows what is happening in the European field, the last issue of the German officer Merkur was once again about Europe, the necessity of regulating this area of award. Also in Wall Street Journal, the president of the big banking group Goldman Sacks called on the US Congress, urged regulators to intervene in wage policy arrangements. As a result, these principles are written in general because they cannot be written precisely, because each company is in a specific situation with regard to its condition and with regard to its decisions and market conditions. As a result, it is impossible to write down each criterion accurately, but this is also very clearly recorded in the first sentence. In determining the remuneration policy of the members of the governing bodies of the Assembly, it is said that the Assembly adopts guidelines, the Assembly adopts a policy whereby decisions are followed and decisions are taken to determine the level of remuneration of the members of the administration, the managers. That this is an opportunity. Let us once again stress that in these attempts by our Group of Members and everyone who has debated on the Committee on the Economy is not a race to come to the managers, it is not a matter of being unhappiness to individuals for high rewards for successful work, but simply a matter of preventing anomalies, those who then shed a bad light on everyone. We must be aware that such populist developments by some who on average talk about astronomical awards, illegality, unjustifiable payments, cast a bad light on the multitude of those successful managers who must make a special effort in these times of crisis and be a battle with the market, with the union and all the problems further exacerbated by the economic crisis. If these areas were regulated before the crisis came, we would probably have a little less problems today. That is why our proposal for this amendment, while seemingly indeterminate in the first place, seems for a simple reason, because it is difficult for such a law as the Company Act to write precise criteria that would apply to all businesses. However, if the general principles to be laid down by the Assembly are to be taken into account when determining the remuneration policy and the remuneration system of managers, everyone can find all these well-meaning comments and suggestions that the colleagues have made so far in the debate. I hope there will be another good proposal. In this way, I am sure that this area will be better regulated in the future. Of this amendment, none of this law makes an illusion that tomorrow or the day of the adoption of the law will be better. But it's a waste of time to discuss why it wasn't when it was supposed to be, because the cycle of history can't be reversed. It is right that these principles begin to be respected. It is true, however, that it is difficult to discuss criteria that are not measurable, especially at a time when we have lost basic values, including moral values. In our society, in the world as a whole, only the rate of economic growth, the rate of profit, the rate of increase in the value of the share was measurable. That was all that applied to the right and the saving standard. We see where it took us. However, once we have determined all the necessary, reward and pay policies, these criteria, such as honesty, social, long-term sustainability and similar criteria, will certainly produce good results. However, it was also seen at the Committee on the Economy that the expression that was written and stated that it was necessary to respect the principle of honesty, that some of us were surprised that even the former minister wondered what it was to be honest about, how we could define it. So, I am sure that these values will also somehow be taken into account in the wage policy and in the remuneration of managers, so we are also making this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who would like to discuss the amendment to Article 9? Yeah. I'm opening time for an application. Mr. Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u104	I agree with you, my colleague from Zares Posedel. If we read the opening sentence, which is legally binding, when determining the remuneration policy of the members of the governing bodies, the Assembly must follow the principles, these principles are fairly general and specific, rather in fact general, but cannot be broken down in the law itself. In particular, I would like to point out that, in spite of the view that this content is somewhat superficially written, this amendment to Article 9, adopted by virtue of the first indent, is set out in the specific principle for determining the remuneration policy. Finally, it will be determined once that the withdrawal must not be paid if the termination of the contract is due to inadequate results. That's the point. So far, the results of the business have been inadequate, people either voluntarily or otherwise have left, and yet they have been granted a severance, which is precedent and nonsense, but this has happened. We all know that. Finally, we have a proposal for a certain article in a law where we prohibit it. It is only this first special indent that has set out the ones for which we should think about adopting this amendment and also the part that specifies when, if any, withdrawals are paid. So far, payments have been made whether a period of time has elapsed or has been interrupted for such and other reasons. Finally, we have some content that I reiterate are important and should be the basis and only an amendment to Article 7 of this Framework. This is our belief in the Slovenian National Party, so we will absolutely support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I don't see any more deadlines to report. That is why I am concluding the debate on the amendments. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.40. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE CONTRACTING PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION LAW ON THE PROHIBITION OF COMPETITION LIMITATION, REDUCED PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr. Minister of Economy Dr. Lahovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, honourable Members! I will be very brief and will only present in rough outline a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of the Limitation of Competition. This law regulates specific access to information of a public nature, access to information of a public nature; that is, according to the proposal of the law, absolutely excludes access to information which is a business secret and data relating to the confidentiality of the source, thereby making the interests of both the Competition Protection Office, which must take care of market surveillance or the provision of competition or to prevent the restriction of competition, as well as of the parties to the proceedings, adequately protected. The possibility of reducing the fine for cartel offenders is introduced and the procedure for the dismissal and reduction of fines for cartel offenders is laid down. First, the procedure shall be prescribed by the Government by a regulation. The purpose of this provision is to harmonise this practice with those established in the field of the European Union. In some ways, we can talk about the Institute of Censorships if it is said at home that the parties involved in the process in some way in an appropriate way are allowed, and the procedure for dismissal and reduction of the fine is also regulated. The possibility of sanctioning natural persons obstructing an investigation is introduced and determines when the investigation is considered to be an obstacle to the undertaking. The purpose is to ensure that the investigation can be carried out effectively. The purpose of this proposal is basically to provide the Competition Authority with an additional basis to enable it to carry out its work as effectively as possible and to ensure that, of course, the Anti-competitive Law is in some way also effectively implemented in practice. If we want to have as much competition as possible in the interests of consumers, then, of course, the Office of Competition Protection also needs appropriate grounds in such a law, which gives it additional opportunities, so the Government has also tabled this law and I believe that you will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Mr William Rezman, Chairman of the Committee for the presentation of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My report will also be brief, as was Dr. Lakhovnik's brief report, and as was a brief discussion on the working body. We discussed the law on the prevention of competition within the framework of the work of the Committee on Economics, after the Government has proposed such a proposal and after a reduced procedure has been established. In order for the work to run properly, the Government represented Mag on the Committee on the Economy. Radich, State Secretary at the Ministry. The presence of representatives of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition and three Chambers, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia was ensured. We have also had before us a proposal for an amendment. The amendment was proposed as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Slovenian National Party. And the debate was more or less just about this amendment, which, in the course of the debate, had received favor and was later adopted and included in the report of the Committee on the Economy. The legislative and legal services have also contributed to their views and opinions. In view of the comments it has made, several amendments to the Committee on the Economy have also been prepared. As material, we also received proposals from amendments to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. State Secretary Mag. Radič's introductory version complemented written material with its oral use. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service has ensured that the concerns he or she has had are taken into account in the amendments. Thus, the debate was really brief, the amendments were adopted and included in the report proposed by the Committee on the Economy for further consideration and adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u110	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Nice greetings to the Minister and the Vice President! It has been a good year since the adoption of the applicable anti-competitive law and, when implementing its provisions, certain editorial and substantive shortcomings of individual provisions have been demonstrated. The Law on the Prevention of the Limitation of Competition, in combination with some other economic laws, ensures the fair and desirable functioning of the free economic market. This law is based on a provision of the Constitution which states that acts of unfair competition and acts which, contrary to the law, restrict competition are prohibited. The legislator therefore raised competition protection to a constitutional level, giving particular weight to this issue. It is therefore important that the Office for the Protection of Competition has such powers as to effectively identify infringements and even more effective measures. If the law does not allow it, it is imperative that we change it. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the Office for the Protection of Competition must be given all necessary leverage in order to be able to perform its function; a function for the benefit of all citizens and citizens and for the benefit of the Republic of Slovenia. We have only recently seen more active activities of this office and if the proposed changes further contribute to the more effective work of the Office, we will be pleased to support them in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Borut Saiovic will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Greetings to the Minister and co-workers. I think the Ministry has drawn up the right law at the right time and in the right and right way. That is why we will support him in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Competition is certainly desirable, even more so - necessary in every market, since it certainly has beneficial effects both on consumers and on existing and emerging or emerging economic operators, and thus indirectly related beneficial effects on the whole economy and society as a whole. The protection of competition and its establishment is certainly a permanent, continuous and never-complete process. Certainly, not only in our country, where we still have a market economy in the development and upgrading phase, but also the importance of legal protection of competition, but also in the market of developed and old members of the European Union. On a wide range of markets, the concept of effective competition is certainly more myth than reality. Therefore, as a school example, we can mention the energy field in the European Union, although we have spoken a lot in the past liberalisation, we have also taken certain measures, and the European Commission has also sought to ensure effective competition and the establishment of an internal energy market. Notwithstanding the fact that the legal protection of competition is a new and evolving concept in our country, it is certain that the Office for the Protection of Competition, as guardians of the effectiveness of competition on the market in the performance of its tasks, must not and cannot be a toothless tiger. Simplely, we need an effective legal and politically appropriately supported organisation that will act in this objective that we have set ourselves to be adequately prepared, secure, as far as competitiveness is concerned. The Government, as the proposer of this novelty, underlines in particular that the Office must have such powers to effectively identify infringements of competition on a given market, while at the same time recognizing that the powers of the Office laid down in the law currently in force, which entered into force a year ago, do not allow this to be fully achieved, and therefore, of course, a necessary and desirable upgrade is needed. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we agree with this assessment by the Government and evaluate the novel as very necessary. In the parliamentary group, we highlight the following substantive changes and additions resulting from practical experience, the application of the 1 year old law. We find it crucial to define the concept of data, which is built on by regulating the disclosure of data. Further amendments are proposed to the Articles governing the organisation of the Competition Protection Office regarding the decision on the exclusion of the Director. Confidential data are defined and the obligations of persons with regard to the protection of confidential data are also laid down. However, the possibilities for processing personal data are also explicitly identified. In this regard, the obligation to publish legislative decisions and decisions of the Office shall be governed by the procedure, which shall be concluded on the Office’s website itself. However, in relation to the investigation, the possibility of determining the identity of the persons present at the premises of the company at the time of the investigation is added and, of course, the possibility of punishing the natural persons impeding such an investigation is defined. In addition, it is also specified when an undertaking is considered to obstruct an investigation and to co-ordinate the procedure for granting and reducing fines to undertakings which cooperate in a transparent manner and in a manner consistent with the Office. As I have already mentioned, the legal protection of competition in our country is rapidly evolving and being enforced. This is reflected in today's consideration of the amendment to the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act. High competitiveness for the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is Slovenia's national interest, which is why we will support the proposal for a new law on the prevention of restrictions on competition, which will be mainly in the practical daily and useful novelty to our competition summit.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The positions of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Mrs Silva Črnugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Restriction on Competition introduces, last April, mainly amendments which have proved necessary in practice. This makes certain concepts, confidential data, a dominant undertaking, data, data of a public nature and a variety of others more specific. In addition, different interpretation options provide for the powers of the Office to prevent and restrict competition and the competence of people to issue their tasks. From all the events we've been following, we can see that this was an emergency. Given the importance of preventing restrictions on competition in the preservation of freedom and in general in the most liberal and accessible economy and economic image, in the Group of Social Democrats we agree that there must be no doubt about the law and that it is imperative to define as precisely and very clearly as possible and to define all the concepts laid down in the law and in particular the powers of the Office and the powers of persons in the performance of their duties. Therefore, the proposal to amend the law in the Group of Social Democrats, as well as all the amendments adopted in the home work body, is supported. However, for me and my colleagues in the Group of Social Democrats, it is very interesting that the drafter of the law has not done so and has thus touched upon the criminal provisions, since it is in this area that the greatest tool for preventing acts of restriction of competition is punishment. The penalties defined by the original law and the new law do not change, except in that part of the fines for cartel mergers, are relatively low and possible benefits in the event of a restriction of competition may be much higher than the prescribed penalties. In addition, further professional training of the competent persons at the office is needed in view of the complexity of the detection of anti-competitive activities. By effectively applying the amended law in practice, we will undoubtedly be a step closer to achieving the objective of a competitive and open economy, which is the goal of the national sense of our country as a whole. I'm very surprised the punishments stayed on the same level. And I believe and I hope that in the haste and in the multitude of problems that the Government, in particular the Ministry of Economy, has addressed during this period, this problem has not been given as much attention as it would have if the law had been fully pursued. Competition and all elements of promoting competition and limiting all acts that are not competitive, I think are very important for the position and functioning of economic operators on the market in Slovenia. That is why this law and all the amendments will be supported by our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Mr Marjan Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u116	Hello, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister with co-worker, MEPs and Members, as well as young guests in Parliament. I take the position of the SDS Group on the amendment of the Law on the Prevention and Restriction of Competition. First of all, I would like to stress that an important component of measures to enhance entrepreneurship and competitiveness is the development of an effective and transparent support environment. The applicable law of ZPOK 1 has entered into force 26. 4. 2008, before that, competition protection was regulated by the Competition Prevention Act, ZPOK. In implementing the provision of ZPOK 1, certain editorial and other shortcomings of individual provisions of ZPOK 1 and possible different interpretations of some of the powers of the Office in the performance of its tasks have been demonstrated following its application. The applicant points out that it follows procedures against the office of establishment or protection of the constitutional category of protection of effective competition on the market. Therefore, the Office must have such powers to effectively identify infringements. However, the powers laid down in ZPOK 1 did not permit this to a certain extent. In accordance with that proposal, it is necessary to define or specify certain terms for this purpose, and in particular to specify the powers or powers of the Office, ZPOK 1. In the SDS Group, we will support the proposal for a new law in the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Lojze Posedel will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Zares Group will support this proposal for amendments to the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act. We are pleased that it is prepared in such a form that it will successfully ensure what is so important, this is as much competition on the market as possible, and I can believe that anyone else will also point out that it would be better and welcome if it were accepted earlier, but it is also welcome at this point. In view of the position expressed by the other parliamentary groups, I am confident that today this amended law will be adopted, these amendments, so that they will be adopted in the vote. It is also a bit of a joke because all Members and Members are only people and thus ordinary customers on the market and any competition is welcome because it certainly brings a better situation on the market. And given that Slovenia is a small country with a small market, that there are some large, major players on this market, then a few players with a less important role and a lot of statistics with little text and little activity, such transparency, competition and the prevention of restrictions on competition are all the more important so that there are no agreements that then distort what it brings, all those positive things that the real market brings. It is therefore necessary to accept these amendments that the Office for the Protection of Competition will also be given even greater powers in the process, so that, instead of this assessment, it will be able to obtain an even better, less efficient and even more positive assessment, and that the results of their work in particular will be even better. In the debate itself, the Committee on the Economy has shown that we all want to do so and that it is exposed - also our Group of Members points out - that the term personal data may sometimes be misused. It is also used when a matter is to be covered up when a matter is to be hidden, so this term of personal data really needs to be specified so that it can then be used to limit competition by individual arrangements in the form and manner of the use of personal data. As the Group of Members has said, the proposal for amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Competition Restrictions will indeed be confirmed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The position of the DeSUS Group is favourable to these proposals. Especially because of the circumstances that we are now in and that we are trying to somehow regulate or influence them with these changes. This is about not just talking about Slovenia, in general when we talk about globalisation, we can say that it does not produce just positive results and only positive results and that it is a very common case when competition is trying to limit itself in different ways. Let us remind ourselves that the penalties in this regard have been increasing, that they have been reaching even billions in recent times, measured in euros. And let me just mention one name: Intel. We know that the concentration and centralisation of capital cannot be shaken, that these processes will continue to be carried out, that they are in the competition for the market, in the competition for customers, for the users of services and thus are absolutely necessary within the economic and economic paradigm and also within the values now prevailing in the world. For the DeSUS Group, at least we can say that we understand these values, that we understand these concepts, that we understand the paradigm, that we do not think that this is something that will not change in the long run or even assess that we will have to cut or build a different world, different paradigms, that we will not experience old problems that we see very badly. We therefore consider that this attempt to increase competitiveness must be supported and that, as far as we can, the processes of monopolising and excluding the competition on the market must be prevented. The measures proposed or proposed by the amendment seek to achieve more competition, better control and better and more efficiency of the supervisory authority. We understand that there are two groups of proposals, one group of proposals, which speak of a better definition of the different concepts that are now defined to make work difficult and therefore need to be changed. Another group of proposals which discuss procedures and which seek to ensure greater efficiency in procedures, more interferences, more competences in the supervisory body and precisely because we in the DeSUS Group understand this bill as a proposal to help the supervisory authority to be more effective, we also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Government representatives! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act was created because certain questions were raised about the possibilities of different interpretations of certain powers of the Office: because there was a need to define the concept of data; because it was necessary to determine the possibility of processing personal data; because the concept of confidential data had to be precisely defined; because access to public information had to be covered. There are sufficient reasons for the need to amend the law and, of course, there are sufficient substantive reasons for us to agree with the law in the Slovenian National Party. The Slovenian national party has also tabled an amendment to Article 3, which has also been amended for the opinion and assessment of the Legislative and Legal Service, which is correct. This amendment, however, referred to the deletion of paragraph 3a. the article, now the last review of the amendments shows that the proposed deletion of Article 3 is complete, which does not substantially change anything. In the Slovenian National Party, we will also support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prevention of Competition Restrictions in order to define the objectives and principles and main solutions in detail.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 19 May. 5. 2009 We're moving on to Article 3. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendments of the DeSUS, LDS, SD and Sures. Anybody want to talk? I do not see the application for a debate, so I am closing the debate on Article 3 and the amendment to it. I am putting to the debate Article 18 and the amendment of the DeSUS, LDS, SD and Really to this Article. I'm asking you to sign up. There's no sign-in. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.40. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. Period of the agenda - This is another defensively proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on the abolition of the consequences of asbestos. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill, Dr. Andre Rus, for further explanation. Dr. Andrei Rus was announced. He's not here. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the president, Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and fellow Members. The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons shall be held at its 5th regular session on 5. 5. 2009 discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Elimination of the Implications of Asbestos Work, which was submitted to the Council of State for consideration and adoption. Representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, representatives of the Association of Asbestos Patients of Slovenia and the Association of Asbestos and representatives of the Chamber of Commerce participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, as well as the legislative technical aspect, and commented on Articles 1, 3, 4, 7, 12, 14 and 15. The Committee was also informed by a decision of the Government, which, at the time of the adoption of the amendments, adopted a decision obliging the competent ministries to accede to the preparation of appropriate legal bases and programmes for the monitoring of asbestos in the environment and for the rehabilitation of areas contaminated with asbestos or other dangerous substances. Within the deadline of business, amendments to the draft law were tabled: Government, Coalition Group and Ambassador Franci Kek. The members of the committee also received proposals for amendments to the Committee's amendments to the Government and to the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups, which were prepared to a greater extent on the basis of the Legislative and Legal Service and its comments. In accordance with Article 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has moved to a second reading of the draft law and the amendments tabled and proposed. In the context of the second reading, the representative of the proposers gave the introductions a supplementary explanation of the draft law. The representative of the Government said they did agree with the bill, but the Government also drafted its amendment with the aim of improving the legislative proposal. The debate, which took place mainly on Articles 3, 6, 9, 10 and 12, stressed that the law was needed and that it meant a step forward, as it actually extended the range of beneficiaries and gave the opportunity to obtain rights to those who did not have them so far, but should also follow the environmental aspect. At the same time, the view was expressed that asbestos production is still taking place in Slovenia, and that the problem of disassemblying asbestos products is also a problem, and the removal of the consequences of asbestos in the environment should also be ensured. Some discussers felt that a step forward was the law and that it was a very positive change, but that the environmental aspect still needed to be worked out or resolved in a new law. In addition, the proposal for a decision forwarded to the Committee by the Group of Members with the first-signed Ljub Germić was also put forward and in some way complements and extends the decision adopted by the Government itself. For the Government, the Group of Members draws attention to the responsibility of the Republic of Slovenia to the presence of asbestos in the living environment and to its commitment to take a very intensive approach to the preparation of appropriate legal and legal bases and other measures for the early implementation of asbestos monitoring, to the rehabilitation of areas exposed to asbestos and to the examination of relevant legal and legal grounds for regulating the rights of citizens and citizens who have become sick due to asbestos in the living environment. The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons also adopted its amendments to Articles 3, 7, 10, 12, 14 and 15. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u125	Thank you very much. She gave her opinion to the law. There is no representative of the Government for the introductory explanation, so we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups. Mr Anton Anderlich will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u126	Respectable. When we talk about the law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos production in the Republic of Slovenia, then it must be said that the Republic of Slovenia realized very early that the consequences of asbestos production were very harmful and prohibited asbestos production in Slovenia decades ago and a few years ago. It is true, however, that much of this pre-made asbestos is preserved in the environment because the cover and some of the other things from these products are still in use. The fact is that at the time, the law regulated what was then the highest priority - banning production, sanitizing production facilities, protecting and eliminating the consequences of asbestos patients in direct contact with it. So, especially those who have been employed in these jobs and have dealt with asbestos. Of course, the fibers that are directly in contact with respiratory organs are dangerous, and of course not when some say that even if you drink water from these tubes, it is the same dangerous thing, but these are other things. During this period of decades and a half, several attempts have been made to upgrade the law in the direction that even those who have been exposed to asbestos production have been exposed in one way or another to the effects of the production, in the way that it is done for those who have been exposed to the factory fence and have become sick. There's no difference to us. Those who have been exposed in one way or another and therefore have become sick are, in our view, entitled to receive material or legal compensation for the consequences. The State Council has tried to take a step further. In the previous mandate, it was not possible to obtain sufficient support in dialogue with the previous government or in dialogue within the parliamentary groups in order to upgrade this law. The Council of State has tried to do so, but it has clearly prevailed over the view that this issue must go not to this law, but to a law that deals mainly with environmental issues and only the State's subsidiary responsibility should be in the part where it is said that the State is responsible for the consequences caused by the production of asbestos. We believe that this is a worse solution, and we hope that the current development of addressing these issues and the conclusions that have been adopted on the home labour body - that this responsibility will be handled by the State no matter how. The fact is that a large area in Slovenia has been exposed to production and, of course, the consequences arising from it, and the country must also make sure that this will be properly remedied, but above all, they are important people, whether they have worked behind factory fences or have lived in the environment and have become sick. It's always hard for me to talk about whether someone really got sick now because they were inside the fence or outside the fence, and for me, everyone who got sick is entitled to take this into account. It is possible to say that this is progress, that, above all, the awareness of both Members and the public that there are still large quantities of these products around us and that the care of each individual and those, in particular inspections and the like, which accompany the delaying of criticisms also on deposits that are unorganised, unprotected, is not being done properly and that only awareness is important for citizens and citizens and that we behave accordingly. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament, we will support the law with the expectation that we will take a step further.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Before we proceed with the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, let me say that Dr. Andrej Rus and the State Secretary to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak are among us. I don't think it's any negligence or delay, but we're actually so effective today that we've been ahead of schedule for more than two hours. However, they both have, and that is why I am now informing them of the possibility, in the context of a debate that will take place at the time of the amendments, to come to the debate if they want to talk about the amendments. The following will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Samo Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. At the beginning of January this year, we were informed a few days before the meeting of the parent committee that the Government was to draw up a negative opinion on the amendment of the law on the abolition of asbestos work proposed by the State Council, which would result in the rejection of the law in the National Assembly. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we have proposed that it be better to support and improve the law in the part that talks about eliminating the consequences of working with asbestos, but that part of the content of the law that speaks about the environmental exposure of asbestos is to be resolved in another law or other way. Thus, during this period, we have had a great deal of coordination to come up with these solutions that do not satisfy all the affected. Nevertheless, the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Working With Asbestos is much better than it is now. The amendment of the law also solves, among other things, those problems that have occurred in practice during the implementation of the law itself. At this point, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, already in 1996, with the signatures of Members and Members from virtually all parliamentary groups, the first asbestos law was passed and that we have practically dealt with the so-called asbestos law in all five references to the National Assembly. In order to wake up the memory, I would say that the Social Democrats, together with their colleagues in the then coalition, have already tabled the first amendment of the law in November 2003. Thus, the National Assembly has continued to deal with this major health and environmental problem since 1996. It is also concerned with whether to include solutions for environmental exposure to asbestos dust in this law. In its opinion of December 2004, the Government found that, on the basis of the views of the special inter-ministerial working group, all potential exhibitors were included as a possible starting point for the creation of a new law. These are employees and former employees in the production process and service services who have been in contact with asbestos powder, directly or indirectly, as well as residents due to environmental exposure to asbestos by diagnosis of asbestos disease and mesotheli. In June 2005, the then Minister replied that the Government intended to resolve the so-called environmental exposure of asbestos in this law, but that forecast did not then come true. Today, too, the Legislative and Legal Service warns that the amendment under consideration, taking into account the environmental aspect of asbestos diseases, extends to persons exposed to asbestos outside the workplace, which means a change in the concept of the law, which requires the adoption of a new law. This is why the Group of Members and Members of the Coalition has proposed a special decision calling on the Government to address asbestos issues comprehensively. The environmental aspect is not such a problem that we cannot solve it in a new law. For illustration: from 1964 to 2002, we have 365 cases of mesothelioma in the entire Slovenian area, which is on average less than 10 patients per year. 95% of all these worst forms of disease were on the radio 5 kilometres from factory courtyards, where asbestos production took place in one way or another. It's not the whole state territory. In addition to the Soča valley and Anhove, where asbestos production was concentrated, we have several other potential hotspots of disease. These are: Ljubljana with Medvods and Domžals, Maribor, Izola and Trbovljeski pool. Experts point out that most asbestos diseases will not occur due to latent periods until 2025 until 2040. This makes us all the more bound by the law to save those who have suffered from environmental exposure to asbestos dust. At this point, I call on the Government to take this decision very seriously, because the delay in resolving this problem from the mandate would be incredible both for the Government and for the National Assembly and for us Members dealing with this difficult health and environmental problem. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u130	Good-bye, everyone. We will not oppose the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We would also like to draw our own attention to the conclusions adopted by the Committee that we expect the Government to analyse and propose appropriate measures to prevent new exposure to asbestos. Measures also to remedy areas that have been or have been contaminated with asbestos and to perhaps make further proposals to improve legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Working with asbestos was introduced by the State Council with the first-signed Andrej Rus. These are changes and additions to the law that try to remedy the shortcomings of the existing law. It was not until 1996 that we received the first law in Slovenia, which definitively confirmed the extremely harmfulness of asbestos. In 2000, the Association of Asbest Patients, Sabs, was established, and has been working for a long time with initiatives and warnings to bring about changes to the current law. Just as the present law tries to bring the desires of the affected persons closer to the proposals. At the same time, I would like to highlight just a few of the major innovations or changes that the new law brings. The main motive, as already presented on the Committee, is the law currently in force, which has taken a major step backwards in the previous mandate, since there has been a limitation of rights and, above all, the disease identification procedures are not currently properly established, which is why the law tends to respond more appropriately to the situation on the ground. The proposer has greatly expanded the Guide on beneficiaries, but the Legislative and Legal Service has warned us that this cannot be done in a single law because environmental responsibility is also involved in this case. In this regard, I would like to point out that we were also reminded of the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Communities on 30 April 2009, which adopted the judgment that Slovenia is severely lagging behind in the transposition and adoption of environmental responsibility legislation at these points. Also because of external warnings and the very awareness of responsibility and the principle of fairness, we hope that there will be sufficient motivation in this mandate to take the initiative, together with the Government, through appropriate legislation and other laws, to address environmental issues properly. The fact is that asbestos is still present in our country’s environment, which means that some of us do not have the constitutional right to a healthy environment. Therefore, at this presentation, let me once again call on the Government to take an intensive approach to the preparation of legal bases, which will ensure, at the appropriate monitoring, that disease will no longer occur in the future. The proposed amendment should therefore be adopted to address asbestos-related problems. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we will be pleased to support the change in the hope that the Government will present the legal basis for this issue in the short term, which will fully address it and adequately address it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Vasj Klavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u134	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Elimination of the Effects of Working with asbestos. This law has already been subject to a number of controversy and suspicions in the previous term that it discriminates against people who have suffered from asbestos exposure but have not worked directly with it. These people who had the bad luck of living on the wrong side of the fence were not entitled to the rights that those who worked directly with asbestos had. Both suffer severe consequences on their health, which in many cases also end tragically. According to our assessment, it is high time to deal with this pressing issue and to provide for people who have only been sick because they lived in the vicinity of asbestos factories. In particular, we welcome the provision that the country will fully finance the cost of treatment for patients with mesothelioma. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we express our support in principle for the complementary proposal of the law before us, provided that the Government holds the conclusion that, in cooperation with the competent ministries, it will prepare an environmental law that will oblige polluters to bear compensation for their irresponsible and unwise conduct which would have harmful consequences for human health and the environment. The proposal to amend the existing law, according to our assessment, still means moving forward, as it actually extends the range of beneficiaries and gives the opportunity to obtain rights for those who have not had them so far. We also support both amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Respectable guests, colleagues and colleagues. The environmental aspect, which is not included in this bill, should, however, be, according to the Government, in another law, the weakness of this has complemented the law. Otherwise, we believe in the Slovenian National Party that what we accept today is positive, necessary and in some way impossible to apologize for those who are sick and have certain death, even an unacceptable act. In the previous term, we have also been actively involved in solving the asbestos problem. Unfortunately, it's a failure. And I must say that I am sorry for all those who could not at least help them in this way to obtain diagnostics, because diagnostics were also disabled in the previous law. Otherwise, the position in the marriage was a lot, so they couldn't even get a diagnosis to get sick, let alone get some compensation. What is happening now in this environment where asbestos has been present does not need to be highlighted in particular. This area is contaminated with asbestos and it is unacceptable that we have not included an environmental aspect in this law. I don't want to be critical, but what was the fault of the child who was in kindergarten in the immediate vicinity of the factory that produced asbestos products? It is difficult to obtain an apology or an appropriate answer. What is the fault of the one who had his own apartment building, house or block, apartment in the immediate vicinity of the production premises? We probably can't answer with an apology either. The fact is that the country is somehow responsible for all these environmental aspects. The country has contaminated, if I may say so, this environment and the state should approach, not postpone it until tomorrow, immediately to solve this problem. I myself believe that we can do more in other sectoral laws, including in other areas of stimulating environmental construction on new, ecological construction. We can help to remove asbestos from the environment. For example, on my own board, on my mother's working body, I also said that there should be more funding granted, say through subsidies to eliminate criticism. We know the possibility of a country financing the introduction of photovoltaic or geothermal heating, a significant part of the state treasury. And this is where I see the possibility that we could get this environmental reduction of the risk of infection faster if the country were to fund this activity even more in this area. As far as state-owned enterprises are concerned, it is unreasonable that a country, say one of the state-owned enterprises, still allows asbestos to be used. These are Slovenian railways. This is not an understandable act and I am sure that tomorrow the Minister of Transport Dr. Patrick Vlačič can order, as we have done with Slovenian locomotives, which we sold to Italians to clean up locomotives and train compositions of asbestos. This will also reduce the risk, and in the future, we will also reduce the infection in individuals. The older train compositions are actually filled with this asbestos. And if you're driving in older train compositions, you're breathing this air that's wired with asbestos fibers. That is how we are obliged to do so because this is controlled by Slovenian railways, which are in the 100% ownership of the country. I would also like to stress what has been said today that the actual dimension of this disease is yet to come. Due to the long latent period, the number of patients will in fact not be visible until 2025. It would be too late to accept the environmental consequences today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u138	Thank you. Nice greeting also to representatives from the Ministry of Labour and, of course, to you, honourable Members and Members! The asbestos bill has a long history and was originally intended to help workers from Anhove. Members of the Slovenian People's Party support amendments to the law, although we believe that a new law should be drawn up, as the proponents wanted to change both the title and the original concept of the law. The content of the original law was to eliminate the consequences of asbestos work due to occupational exposure to asbestos, and the State Council wants everyone, including those who have become ill outside the workplace. Certainly, Members of the Slovenian People's Party support the basic purpose of the law: to help the affected and the sick. We agree that it is the responsibility of the State to deal with the consequences and to prevent new consequences from occurring, and the question is, whose burden should be solved by the inappropriate and dangerous use of asbestos and asbestos products in the past. Who is responsible for not taking the appropriate action and stopping the dangerous use of asbestos, since asbestos fibre has not been known for a century since we are a democratic country? Unresponsible behaviour will now be paid by all taxpayers, and more importantly, the consequences are fatal to human health, as current 2010 forecasts indicate at least 58 new cases of mesothelioma in Slovenia. We agree that it is necessary to add, as beneficiaries, persons employed by other employers who, on the basis of their legal work, worked with employers referred to in the preceding paragraph and who have been exposed to asbestos at work or who have been in contact with asbestos fibres in their professional work. Residents from the immediate proximity who have suffered from influences should also be included. For this reason, we will also support in the Slovenian People's Party all the amendments of the Government and the committees that practically amend the original amendment and the amendment of the law. With regard to the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 12, or to Article 10, as amended, we are concerned and the question arises whether the current coalition can only come up with measures that place all the burdens of crisis resolution on taxpayers' shoulders to cause all the damage caused by companies due to the irresponsible treatment of asbestos to the full burden of the State. Is this the only possible solution? We're wondering where the insurance companies are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the 19th Amendment Review. 5. 2009 I am putting Article 12 and the amendment of SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS to Article 12. Who wants to discuss it? I'm giving you time to report to the debate. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u140	Nicely greeted! I come from an environment where we meet weekly funerals of people who die from this dangerous disease. I come from an environment where Salonit Anhovo is already mentioned today, which is a cancer of the wound of this work, but in some previous periods. Interestingly, even when experts came to visit this factory under Yugoslavia, they said it was the cleanest cement plant in Europe. But the protection against asbestos fibres, of course, was not appropriate. That is why I fully support both amendments, because it is indeed necessary to help people who have lived and live outside factory yards and are in grave danger. It is also logical for the state to pay these costs, because, as mentioned above, Slovenian Railways, perhaps Montenegro in Koroška in some other form of poisoning and something else, will certainly have to help the state to recover, because it is expected that companies that are, or are not, no longer, in any way solving these problems will not work. We in Goriška were actually lucky that last year's storm destroyed huge amounts of asbestos cover and we were forced to quickly replace it. However, there are still a lot of asbestos criticisms in Slovenia everywhere, including us, so we should make special efforts to replace these criticisms. I agree, however, that the environmental law, in fact, will have to punish those who pollute the environment. Recently, in Nova Gorica, we had a deliberate spill of large quantities of oils, which are refrigerated in transformers, on the site of the previous Iverka. This flowed into the earth, flowed into the Korn stream, and even into Soča. And as mayor, I had a very hard time convincing the inspectors and the police that they were only reacting and that they were looking for culprits who were already known. I will support the amendments with great joy and expect us to also gain an environmental law that is bound up with everything I have mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u142	In the presentation of the views of the members of the groups, there were also some misleading indications, namely that the original law was not adopted because of Salonita Anhovo. In Slovenia there were some products: from Medvod, to Maribor and elsewhere. It is true that Salonit Anho was either the largest producer or the company with the largest part of asbestos production. But not just Salonite. The fact is that this law and this amendment to Article 12 as a whole do not save everything that we should live in during the development phase. And some warnings have already been made today regarding the warnings we are getting from the European Union. But somehow we can't do this power to make a radical leap and say, "The problem in Slovenia is that. One that relates to the workers who were behind the walls, and one that is in the environment, and one that is in the whole country, and we have to do everything we can, with all the potential here, with only the financial consequences, to do everything we can to remedy these consequences." In doing so, I must say that it is obvious that the drafters of the law have escaped and I think that this is a discriminatory article 2 or 4 point in Article 2, and I am also referring to this amendment as it relates to Article 2, paragraph 4, of the amendment. I'm sure that there can't be something in our marriage that says in this fourth point. Persons resident in the Republic of Slovenia who have become sick of mesothelioma due to exposure to asbestos in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia shall also be entitled to the rights under this Act if they had permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia at the time of exposure. What does that mean? Someone worked 40 years in Salonito Anhovo, drove from Italian hills, from Goriskih hills on the Italian side, could also be Slovene, but because he did not have a permanent residence here, he worked, he will not be justified. More. He could have had a permanent residence in Anhove for 40 years, but then he moved, retired, like to the hills on the other side of the Slovenian-Italian border, he is not entitled. I think that would fall in front of every serious court. I'd like to think about what the government thinks about it. I read once again: "...persons with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia," so today and on, "if they were sick because they had a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia when they were working in the Republic of Slovenia." I think that this is discriminatory and it will be necessary to look at what we are doing in this provision. I don't think there's a way to get a divorce, but I think it's a pretty technical solution. Otherwise, as we say, we support every step that goes in the direction of a comprehensive solution to the problems caused by production and sales and everything related to it has arisen in the Republic of Slovenia to recover. It is clear that, when it comes to companies that operate and can be included with certain percentages, they must continue to be bound, although they are still somehow bound by the basic law. Maybe here in this part where this part of the problem is deliberately eliminated into that environmental part, and that, according to the law, we should solve with environmental regulations that it is actually less committed than if we were to bind it to this special law and refer only to those who are actually sick and in fact those who are entitled to it. As it is said, I will support this amendment and I would like to make this point clear, however, that this would not appear to be a discriminatory provision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, Dr Anja Kopač Dark, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. I would apologize at this point for the delay in not having the possibility of introductory explanations, so I might start by saying just a few words about this environmental issue, which has been most exposed to the debate so far. I would like to point out that we have ruled out this environmental issue in the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, because in the integration of environmental issues, it would in fact be a departure from the current concept of law, because the law already says in the title that it is a matter of remedying the consequences of working with asbestos. So it binds to working with asbestos as well as solving this kind of problem. The Government is aware of this problem and has actually adopted this meeting when amendments to the proposal for a law that we are considering today have been considered, in my opinion, a binding decision, which obliges all competent ministries to approach the preparation of appropriate legal bases and programmes for monitoring asbestos in the environment and for the rehabilitation of areas contaminated with asbestos and other health dangerous substances. Ensuring a secure living environment is one of the fundamental human rights and the government's commitment is to do something about it. In doing so, I would point out that, by means of this proposal, the amendments adopted by the Committee actually extend the legal rights to all who have become sick due to any occupational exposure to asbestos and present a real step forward for this proposed change. As regards the amendment to Article 12, as the chairman opened the debate on the amendments, I would point out that we would otherwise support this amendment, that it represents greater legal system clarity, but I would point out at this point that the regulation on the reduction of the share of compensation adopted as a sub-legislative act to existing legislation has already regulated this and that the state has so far actually paid 100% compensation in the case of environmental mesothelioma. So, up to now, environmental mesothelioma cases have already been paid 100% by the State under the regulation, but this amendment introduced into the law is actually a better legal system because it is better to regulate this by law than by law. However, it may be possible that the other points will be notified when the amendments are open to individual points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. Mr. Lucky Friend has also signed up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would appeal to the Secretary of State that the state is to blame for what has been done, and for this contamination of the environment, which will have lasting consequences throughout the country, we can say, we have heard where these areas are, this country is to blame. It doesn't matter who's in power right now, the fact is that the result, which essentially has a causal link to disease, is death. And if it is important that we talk about eliminating the consequences of working with asbestos, there is no doubt that the main point of this solution is to eliminate the consequences. I just want to make some comparisons, because maybe the government doesn't know. The European Parliament is destroyed only because of this, and, of course, built on a new one, because it is in the interior, in the walls, as an insulator used asbestos. Without question, he was demolished. The electric locomotives that we, as a rich two million people sold to the 60 million Italian people, the utility locomotives, at the price of the old iron, were previously cleaned with asbestos. They're still driving around Italy today. We have our locomotives full of asbestos. Asbestos is still used and it is interesting that even in passenger suits, mentioned earlier, this insulator is still useful. We have so-called ecological funds and, in my opinion, the government can increase the items by 300% today when we talk about eliminating the consequences of asbestos work when we are ready to replace water pipes, roof roofs, insulation materials. And this could be subsidized by the government without any additional law allowing it. We can do this today. It is true that this law that we are adopting today is a major step forward. And I am glad to have this law and these amendments that improve the actual content of the existing law on the table today. However, if we take the German amendment, it is not enough to remind the Government that there is only a great risk of additional pollution in the area and that environmental consequences must also be accepted from an environmental point of view. The fact that we're warning someone is simply not enough. And I would like once again to draw attention to this environmental aspect - put yourself in the role of a parent who has a sick child only because he drove him every day to a kindergarten that was in the immediate vicinity of the factory. This child or this family is not covered by this law, nor does it tange. And that's bad. Criticism is also essential in this area and there is no time to postpone it, we will do it tomorrow, no, today we must do it. If we didn't do it, then we didn't do anything. As soon as the Minister has done so for foreigners, the removal of the consequences of working with asbestos must prevent further production, I speak for the central workshops of the Slovenian Railways. He has to do it right now, or tomorrow he should have done it, or I don't know, he and his previous colleagues are responsible for getting a new disease. After all, the government and ministers have signed here a promise to work in the interests of citizens and citizens. We know about the consequences, we know about the causal link, but we're not taking action. What's different than avoiding responsibility? This asbestos, the consequences of asbestos, we're talking about a proposal. We also wrote a law, placed it in the procedure, and it was rejected or not accepted. We also cooperated with SABS, and we also worked with the patients. I know the fates of many, many of them are no longer alive today. In order not to be denied populism, I stress once again, this law will be supported and good changes will be contained. If the state of Slovenia, the Government, which also has a prime minister coming from this region, also has a mayor who has already told the depth of this problem, will not address the consequences that are large in the environment tomorrow, then also bear responsibility. Daily, there are, in fact, deaths due to this, and this is growing because the latent period is long because there was a "pig" by the state. And now the states don't care, everyone's doing a Pilate wash of their hands "and we're not guilty." When we were on the committee, this president of the mother's working body didn't tell her, maybe I resent that, we had a confession of the fate of the one who was supposed to take care of the sick. And he said, "There's no family in my street who wouldn't have a death tax." We buried a neighbor the day before yesterday, and there's something about these houses on the street." That's the environmental aspect. The Secretary of State was also present. Why aren't we talking about this? Why do we keep our heads in the sand and don't want to hear this problem? What helps the sufferer get the compensation he's about to receive? Nothing, because in the end he's going to die. However, to prevent many new such tragic events, it is our duty, which we can do, and this is this environmental aspect. Not here to blind and say nice things, yes, because tomorrow we'll be in a new marriage, we'll be taking it up again, the government is preparing. We know these answers, and I believe that for a long time there will be no subject that will address this problem in its entirety. I'd like us to look for those reserves that are available today. One of these I have already mentioned: an immediate ban on problems arising from a new one where production is still flowing with asbestos and much larger funds approved in organic fund to remedy consequences, is insulation materials, can also subsidise the cover, water-water-based saloons and so on. These options are huge, and we don't use them. I would also appeal to the Government to talk about today's announcement of when this will be tomorrow, and in what way we will permanently eliminate these consequences. The country is to blame for this "pig" that's in the environment, and it's leading to death. Even legally, if we're looking at it, just let me have this sentence, that fact, we can find the culprits for it, with names and surnames.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u147	Thank you very much. There is still an interest in the debate, so I am starting to apply for a debate. Mrs. Melita Zupevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I will support the amendment currently under discussion. I'd say one thing. I agree with all the speakers who are critical of the government on this subject. However, you must also admit one thing: it is this government that is taking a step forward. You have to admit that, too. Maybe a small step, but let's be honest with each other. In the previous term, the opposition MPs were the ones who tried to get the laws across and did not go. We're moving forward today. And I agree with one more thing, that's that he's not our ally right now. Not this time. And all the stories that you've mentioned, each one of them is sad, and each one of them is tragic. And I agree that the government should tell us what priority this topic is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u150	Dear Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State and representatives of the Council of State. It is always better than never and the proposal to amend the asbestos law is the right moment or at least the last moment to adopt it. With it, we will correct all the mistakes we have made in this area. Speaking of asbestos, there is no way we can escape the fact that Slovenia is carrying quite a few stains in space and in the environment. Not only asbestos, including others, but also other things that corrupt our health and our lives. With the support of this law and all amendments, which is also supported by the Co-sponsor, the DeSUS Group, I think it is right that in the light of the discussions of this law and the amendments to this law, there are also opportunities for discussion on Koroška, on the Měžica Valley and the consequences of lead, which may not be as drastic as the consequences of asbestos, but are certainly evident. All health experts and the impact of this lead indicate that this is a major problem to be solved. It is certainly illusional to expect that the causes of these stains in Slovenia will be those who will remove these stains. And it is right that the Government or Government accepts this responsibility, including financially, to eliminate all these things. Last but not least, I would say that it is right for the Government to make a concrete move, concrete steps and not only by adopting this law and these amendments, because we see that already in the course of today's practice a lot of resources have also been made from European resources to replace asbestos pipes for drinking water. So it seems to me that there is much more to it than this law itself, these amendments already in progress, and it shows that we are clearly aware of all these consequences, which we also want to address. So let me finish. In the light of the adoption of these amendments and of this law, it is certainly necessary to consider the elimination of these other stains, which plague and heat the life of us who are in this space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. For years we have been talking about asbestos, about the victims of asbestos, and finally we have reached the law and some amendments that finally meet some of the expectations of the most affected. I remember all the efforts in past periods, past mandates, and I also think, as some other colleagues, that a step has finally been taken in the right direction. I am also joining my colleague Anderlich, who has previously found one contradiction or non-conformity with the European spirit and probably also European legislation which states that victims - any accident or consequences of such or other facts - should not be discriminated against. The fourth point of Article 2 is actually a doctrine which is awkward and should be corrected either in this law or with a novelty, if technically not feasible in this procedure, subsequently. But the fact is that there may be some affected and sick people for asbestososis who have changed their permanent residence and are now located outside the Republic of Slovenia. This is happening in the European Union, in the Schengen region, more and more. And the fact is that someone who may have lived in Goriška or Anhove at that time is now outside our borders, in the neighborhood or anywhere in the world, and must have the right to determine this law, regardless of current permanent residence. I also propose that the possibility of correcting this discrepancy in the process be considered or that the Government reacts in an appropriate manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u153	Thank you very much. This was not a debate on Article 12, but it was a useful warning. Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. I may not be discussing Article 12, either, but I wanted a replica before, and you may not have noticed me. I just want to say two sentences. Talking about topics that help people who have suffered the consequences that are harmful to their health in their work must probably always be a priority in the National Assembly. I just want to answer Mr. Anderlich. Maybe we didn't get along. At the beginning, when I gave my views to the Slovenian People's Party, I said that the law on the elimination of the consequences of working with asbestos had a long history and was originally intended to help workers from Anhove. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u155	Replica, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u156	Unfortunately, the wrong statement and this is a typical replica, because in fact we made this law a decade and a half ago to ban the production of asbestos in the Republic of Slovenia and it applied to all manufacturers, those in Medvod, those in Maribor, those in Sevnica and so on. And we have saved certain production plants through state aid and imposed on the state and those who have caused these consequences, that some have been sick to recover the damage, eliminate the consequences, to the extent possible. Of course, we're talking about tragic things, we're talking about eliminating the consequences that some of them aren't even remediable, because they're such that people got sick and died, but it's a matter of some satisfaction, of some recognition of some right, that if this happened, if this happened, it did. For all, not starting and finally finally with Anhoi or specifically with Salonit. However, it is necessary to say here once again that, in fact, this is the fourth, fifth or sixth attempt, that things have already changed in the middle of things and are being upgraded, and this is what is essential, that the more the country develops, the more there is a way more behavior, the more every possibility of replacing some production with another, to do so, and that the country that is ultimately more rich than it was then to assume those responsibilities that might be assumed at the time when we adopted the first law, could not accept and we did not even know what the consequences of production also had for the surrounding population, even for all indirectly affected, not only for those who were directly in contact with the factory. And let's make some progress. Once again, I say that the time will be, I hope, that we will take a step forward and also the attempt of the State Council I have actually understood in taking a step forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u158	Allow me to remind you again that efforts to amend this law have been under way since 2003. That, in fact, for quite some time there was no will and willingness to change this law, but we are now with common powers. I would stress in particular the constructive cooperation of both the State Council, the Government, Members of the position, interested groups, and, last but not least, the constructive behaviour of the opposition. That is how I picture cooperation and progress in solving some of the key social problems. We will certainly not discuss this issue for the last time, and in particular the environmental aspect that has led us through the debate on this law, is the one that we have written in a special decision. And if we have written it in a special decision, be assured that the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons will constantly remind the Government that, in view of the commitments made in this Decision, it must also draw up concrete solutions. It is certain that we will also face this problem because today not fully predictable all the consequences of this, I will say to the health of the harmful element in the environment, and we will also talk about how to determine how certain rights belong to those who have been affected by the environmental consequences, and this law does not cover them. For the decision commits itself both to monitoring the harmful effects in the environment, to repairing the environment, and to preparing legislative bases for spreading or guaranteeing the rights of asbestos patients. However, I also agree with the fact that this is not the only environmental threat that exists in Slovenia and that the rights of these people must be fully considered. With regard to Article 12, or the amendment to Article 12, I would like to stress my support for Article 12. However, I would certainly ask the Government to define the issue itself. And something else, given the comments of a colleague of a friend. I did not mention a concrete story, because every story that is related to the disease of the severe consequences of asbestos exposure is tragic and simply not worth exposing. The problem needs to be tackled in its entirety and addressed as comprehensively as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Surely it is necessary to correct the error that has affected both workers and the surrounding population. That asbestos was harmful, it was also known when production was still in full swing, however. Although it was late, it was early enough to prevent even greater irreparable damage to the deterioration and spread of asbestos in the population. The law is certainly necessary and must be written in such a way as to cover a wider range of beneficiaries. The right to compensation must be guaranteed to anyone who has been harmed in any way. It would also be noted that the removal of water asbestos pipes is co-financed and covered by the State, as such problems are faced by the local community and residents. I support any improvement in the law, as compensation has been said for an absolute length of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u162	Thank you very much. A short replica, if you can. That's all I'd say. The Chairman of the Committee said that the sum was too large and he did not want to mention any particular mention. This is precisely why I would like us to adopt the criteria for eliminating asbestos work in the environment as soon as possible, as these environmental consequences. This should be corrected and another comparison: that these deaths are more from day to day, this is a well-known fact, and this is also the reason that we should react immediately. Maybe another comparison for the work of this National Assembly. Dear colleagues, I didn't mean to come by, but that's what I have to say. We accept compensations that will result in billions of payments from the state budget tomorrow without a problem - to be erased. We deal with the status of the Roma minority, or I prefer to call the Gypsies to forgive me, currently in the National Assembly. We've spent most of our time on them. For this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u163	Mr. Friend. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u164	for this [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u165	Mr. Friend. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u166	But we don't find the time, and [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u167	I'll thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u168	opportunities and good [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u169	if you do not give [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u170	Willingly, to save in [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u171	comparisons, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u172	Total [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u173	which do not fall under this Article. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u174	No, they belong to this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u175	Otherwise, we will reopen the debate on issues that do not belong to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u176	Dear Vice President. I just wanted to give a comparison of how generous we are to some other problems, how much time this National Assembly spends on other problems that are much less painful, much less tragic and, of course, when we say that we can, we don't, and we can't, and we can't, want, time and money to solve it as we should. We're putting something in the future. That's not good! We're here for the people!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Article 12, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u178	Just one question. We are now discussing Article 12, and the open debate is on amendment to Article 2, so now we have to talk about 12 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u179	You have an opportunity to sign up, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u180	So, also to Article 2 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u182	I'll give you an explanation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u183	Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u184	Then only those things that were open would explain. The current law states that the beneficiaries under this law are "persons with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia". So those who have permanent residence today. And our amendment, the correction went primarily towards ensuring that this causal link is not important today, but in the past. If you feel that this is discriminatory and that a large number of people who have worked, who have had a permanent residence in the past, because it is imperative that they have had it at least when they are sick, the first part of the article that says that they must have a permanent residence today can be withdrawn. Thus, the article would state that "The rights under this law are justified by persons who have suffered from mesothelioma due to exposure to asbestos in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia if they had a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia at the time of exposure."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u185	I'm afraid, Madam Secretary of State, that's not going to work, given the procedure. But I think your announcement and warning indicate the possibility that this will be resolved later. Anybody else want some? I'm giving you time to report. Who else wants to sign up for the debate? Mr. Marian Krizman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u186	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If you allow only one question that does not fall under this item of the agenda. Some visitors on the balcony have a link on their mouth, and I would like to ask if we have a disease in the National Assembly to avoid this danger.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u187	In my opinion, we do not have any specific regulations or arrangements in the National Assembly. There's something I'd like to say. As chairman, I never specifically talk about who is monitoring our work on the balcony, unless I get a warning that these are official delegations. In the end, I was going to tell them that they were and were working with us and were monitoring our work by asbestos patients. However, I found it inappropriate to announce this now that no one would think that because of their presence our work is any different than it would have been. In that sense, I am not pleased with your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u188	Thank you. But it's a welcome answer, because I'm going to be so much easier to discuss and know who's in the hall. Although, what I have to say, I would also say if there was no one in the hall. I support the article which the Madam Secretary will now try to correct, but as you explained, this must be done in a different way if this is to be done. Because, in my opinion, people are not forever nailed to just one address. Many moved from an area contaminated with asbestos. I myself support and will also do everything possible to change this text under this Article and, of course, I will support this, because it would be very undemocratic and discriminatory towards those who have moved out of this area. Otherwise, I expect this marriage to work quickly, effectively and immediately, so that those people who are alive, unfortunately, will be sick because of the factory in their immediate vicinity, get the necessary compensation as soon as possible to make it easier for them to live the rest of their lives that they can with this compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u190	I am grateful to the Secretary of State for understanding that this is a matter. Even if it had been written earlier, I must say that probably in 1996 or 1994, when we were doing that first marriage, it had a different connotation and meaning than we could talk about these things today, and I believe that by means of a harmonisation amendment, given that under today's conditions - even under the conditions of the European Union, etc., we were not, when we adopted that law - it could have been controversial and that by means of a harmonisation amendment we were trying to regulate it at least to this extent, so that it would not be discriminatory or possibly even under these conditions now also be challenged in any court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich. I agree with you and have made a request or order that the Legal and Legislative Service see whether this can be done before deciding, but otherwise we know that Article 2 is not open and that this moment is not possible with other procedures. Mr. Anderlich, the first part has been overheared or you don't think it's important. I asked him to see if he could do it. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on Article 12 of the amendments and turn to the debate on Article 14 and the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Who wants to discuss it? I can't see. Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 12th agenda or at 21.40. Once again, I would like the PSC to take a look, in view of the findings on permanent residence, at whether the formulation is such that it corresponds to the solutions within the European Union or if any additions could be made. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE ACT ON THE WORKING SUBSIDENCE OF THE WHOLE WORKING TIME, SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Council of State. I give the floor to Mr Borut Meh's proposed law for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u192	Dear President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Minister, representatives of the Government! In accordance with its powers, the Council has tabled a proposal for a law amending the Law on partial full-time subsidisation. The law was part of the Government's first package of measures to overcome the crisis, but despite the warning that measures relating to the labour market should be harmonised within the Economic and Social Council, unfortunately this has not been done. I'm not going to let go. Probably also because we were still hunting for how the Economic and Social Council should function, and that is why this role, or somehow the State Council, was involved, where also the stakeholders' groups of employers and employees were represented and we succeeded in these two interest groups, as well as in the State Council, in agreeing to put forward a proposal for this law. The law is extremely short, it has only two articles: one of these two articles is substantive and this proposal is aimed at eliminating illogicality. The focus of the law was to allow businesses to adapt to the economic crisis. However, the law itself has somehow been dictated that in the course of the business year in which the employer receives the subsidy, which is limited in time, he must not spend overtime. Such a dictatorship has actually prevented companies from obtaining a subsidy due to two things. First of all, the subsidy or the law was adopted after the new year, and if an undertaking was in excess before the law was adopted, it means that it does not actually have the conditions to apply for a subsidy to reduce working time. On the other hand, even after the subsidy has expired, since the company can waive it, it may be in a position to increase the contracts but it must not be in excess because it has to repay the subsidy otherwise. The adjustment only goes in this direction so that it is said that the company must not exercise overtime at the time of receiving the subsidies. This change is logical and in particular eliminates this discrepancy when we talk about the business year, because the business year is usually, at least 99%, of 1. 1. to 31. 12. It must be said that the law does not require any additional resources, since the basic law already provides for 230 million funds. In addition, the amendment is not so difficult and we have therefore proposed that the law be adopted in a reduced procedure and I actually propose and I ask that this bill be supported and voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the president, Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u194	Mr Minister, Madam Secretary of State with colleagues, dear colleagues, colleagues are once again welcomed. At its 5th meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on partial full-time subsidisation submitted by the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia with a proposal for short-term treatment. At its 19th meeting, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. Representatives of the proposer, a representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and representatives of employers and trade unions participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was informed by the Legislative and Legal Service of 14. 4. and the opinion of the Government of 23. 4. 2009 A representative of the proposer, State Councillor Borut Meh, briefly presented the amended articles of the law in the introductory explanation. In her explanation of the bill, the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State, drew attention to the difficulties that had occurred at the time of the implementation of the basic law, which the employers had pointed out in particular. In her presentation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out the uncertainty as to whether the prohibition of overtime applied to the whole economic operator or only to those workers for whom the employer receives the subsidy. With regard to the latter interpretation, a very broad debate developed, in which some members of the Committee pointed out the possibility of an abuse of the basic law and suggested that a change of law was therefore necessary and employers' representatives were particularly aware of the negative consequences if the restriction applied to the entire economic operator, as further development options would be prevented from being available to the whole company. The discussers agreed that greater flexibility should be allowed for the economy, while preventing the possible abuse of individual employers. In view of the numerous concerns raised with regard to the different interpretation of the bill and the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, the members and members of the Committee decided unanimously after a short interruption to support the basic text of the bill. No amendments have been adopted to the draft law on the home labour body and the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons of the National Assembly proposes that the draft law amending the Law on partial full-time subsidisation should be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Minister, Dr. Ivan Svetlik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u196	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. Thank you so much for saying that. Since the marriage was already justified, I wouldn't go into it. Let me just say that the law that we are amending with this amendment bill works well. So far, 655 companies have applied and nearly 62,000 employees have joined them. The Employment Office, which manages this instrument, has already prepared and signed with companies 495 contracts for almost 47 000 workers. The content of the amendment to this law, as explained by Mr Meh, is such that we can also fully agree with it on our part. So the point is that the ban on overtime is not extended throughout the business year, but only for the time when this law is in force or when an undertaking is involved in this scheme. We believe that this change is appropriate in view of the fact that in practice it has proved that companies could have some business difficulties under the current regime. Let me add that, despite this change, the basic objective and purpose of the full-time subsidy law remains in its essence and with the same objectives, with the same aim, and that this amendment improves the situation for business operators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Andrej Magajna has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u198	Dear Vice President. Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The State Council and the Government, in their explanation for the proposal for a law amending the Law on partial full-time subsidisation, also drew attention to the difficulties that had been encountered during the implementation of the basic law and to the extent that employers had also pointed out. The problems relate in particular to the prohibition of over-declaring workers throughout the business year in which workers were involved in the working process. However, the proposed amendment provides that overtime should not be assigned only during the adoption of the subsidy. So, the government and the state council are giving us this law for admission. The SD Group agrees, regardless of the many other issues and dilemmas that we will hear in the debate at the parental committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u200	Thank you. Good-bye, everybody! In the SDS Group, we did not oppose the proposal for a law on partial subsidisation of working time at the time of introduction. However, we have pointed out a number of dilemmas that have proved justified, namely that the law has been prepared quickly and inconsistent with those concerned, employers and employees who have even demonstrated on the day of reception. That he is quick and poorly prepared also shows that after two months we have been correcting him because he has contained inconsistencies and ambiguities about the storms. We are correcting it on a proposal from the Council of State, which, as explained by the representative of the Council of State, has been considering whether to vote veto or to join in amending the law. They prepared a change and aligned it with the government, at least so stated in the government's opinion that the law was in favour. The Committee then found that something that was supposed to be harmonised was not as well coordinated and that the government understood the solutions in the law differently than the trade unions and employers understood. Thus, we even had to stop the debate on the committee because they failed to unify what the Government supports and what it does not. On this basis, two amendments were made on a proposal from the Legal and Legislative Service, to which the Committee has not been identified. The law would now remain as proposed, which is most likely, as has led to dilemmas and differing opinions on the Committee, it would also give rise to such dilemmas to employers and the employment agency when they have to implement it. And in one word, we might say that there is some kind of chaos in the law that the government mentions most about anti-crisis measures and considers it one of the most important anti-crisis laws. The law has been drafted by the Government in order to protect the worker and help businesses to maintain jobs. After a few months, the reality is that we have maintained 8 000 jobs, and we have spent up to now EUR 10 million of the EUR 230 million in the budget or in the balance. This morning we have already discussed a new law that is supposed to maintain 25,000 jobs - and where we will take the money - from the short-term subsidy line, of course, because obviously there are those who have claimed a few months ago that we will need 230 million to keep these jobs in order to prove that there will be a lot of resources left on this item and we can use them for another purpose. We will not oppose the law in the SDS Group, because we believe that every job that has already been preserved and will be preserved by this law is particularly important for all those individuals who will remain in their jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u202	Dear President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues, everyone else is present. The basic law is one of the intervention laws that we adopted at the beginning of this year. The aim was to protect employees in order to reduce economic activity. As we have heard today, its introduction and implementation have not gone smoothly. The Council of State had concerns about the non-removal of cooperatives in the basic text of the law, and now the Council of State is also proposing a change, in short, at the initiative of employers. We could join ourselves in the opinion on the non-coherent adoption of this law, as the debate on the Committee itself showed a difference in opinion. Otherwise, there is one basic agreement that the law will be better after these changes, and the question is, if it is good enough. In the Zares Group, we agree with the Government's position that the introduction of a new condition, in short, that companies should not impose excesses solely and solely on the workers for whom they receive the subsidy, would somehow destroy the basic purpose of the law, because we are convinced that the company as a single economic operator pays taxes in a uniform manner, is said to receive subsidies in a similar way and that it is not possible to expect that one rule will apply in a good way, but in a poor way another, perhaps more favourable for someone. The amendment, the main one, is that the ban on overgrading will not apply to the business year, but only for the time of receiving the subsidy has much been said. It might also be worth mentioning that there is now a difference in the basic text of the law in this amendment. The basic text of the law stated that awards should not be paid for the financial year of receipt of the subsidies. Following the text that has now been adopted, which I regret, of course, that we have been inadvertent on the Committee, it is considered that the awards should not be paid in the year of receiving the subsidy. So this is about one little difference. How substantive, if it's perfect, it'll probably show time. In short, we agree with the proposal in the Group of Members and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u204	Mr Vice-President, honourable Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished visitors. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the Government's opinion and support the amendment of the law on partial full-time subsidisation, which was adopted as an intervention law with the aim of mitigating the consequences of the coming economic crisis. The State Council, which proposes the amendment, proposes that the law in force be supplemented in the work relating to the implementation of Article 3, paragraph 1, and prohibits the granting of overtime during the financial year in which the undertaking receives the subsidy. The proposal for amendments thus provides that the limitation on the allocation of overtime at the time of receipt of the subsidy for workers receiving this subsidy is applicable. According to our assessment, this would help to increase the flexibility of economic operators, since the limitation on the allocation of overtime is not applicable to the whole of the company, but only to subsidisation of works, and at the same time in the Desus Group we hope that employers will not abuse this provision. I repeat, in the DeSUS Group, we hope that employers of this provision will not abuse it, because there are alarming warnings coming from the ground that this is already happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko has a friend on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u206	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for your words, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government. The Law amending the Law on partial full-time subsidisation is kind of a short-term necessity, as employers find that in fact it is a correction of the error that has been made, which we have also warned about when the law was adopted, and employers find that, for example, where there is a structural division of work in the company where there are larger companies, that some of the cores in the enterprises that have jobs have contracts, these contracts cannot be met because the company is obliged to reduce working time for all. If that doesn't happen, of course there's no subsidy. This is intended, simply said, also this correction and it is right that we have actually introduced it, because we have companies who, because of this, could otherwise work some parts of the company over full-time because they have not delivered the final products, the final products, the penalty payments today. So this matter, which was adopted, was poorly completed and in this context, of course, criticized all those who did not listen to the warnings. The law is intended for this crisis period for companies that want to expect better times in good condition and are well-intentioned, and in the Slovenian National Party we consider it good and, of course, some employers are already exploiting this kindness and are also abusing the law. I have also called on the Secretary of State to introduce a higher level of control through work inspections, and we know that this is already being exploited. And as some may also receive rewards for doing bad work, even if this is supposed to be the area of regulation of this law, I have also been very keen on my mother's working body, and I have said that the rewards for those, in particular for state-owned enterprises that are in fact poorly completed on a business year, are out of the question. I see no reason why we should pay the prizes at all, because each job is paid and very few workers who get at the end of the year because of the company's performance some envelope more. I don't know a company that would give workers another envelope. Slovenia, in our view, is proposing laws, and of course it is also one of those that in some way alleviates the period of recession in which Slovenia is also found. However, they are not good in the context of choice. An extension of working time, which may also be one of the government's proposals, will not exactly help us to expect a better understanding and better condition at the very end of the recession. And if we look at this law, which is before us today, it is already in force and quickly adopted, inadvertently put into the procedure of adoption, to which it also warns today's supplement, it is also, in fact, kind of good, but should be the last priority of the proposed laws. Because he's subsidizing the crime. I would rather see, much rather, that the Government would bring to the National Assembly a law that would subsidize the opening of new jobs, creating new added value, thereby strengthening the tax field, which, of course, would also strengthen the country's financial sustainability and in some way give people the opportunity to start work. But well, as we say, this law belongs from the back up among those who would have a possible last priority on our list. We would put what I have already mentioned in the first place, and we would certainly shorten our working hours by giving young people a chance to get their first job. Because we know what happens to a good master or a graduate engineer waiting for his first job for five years at home, because someone is doing work up to the age of 65, as is new. If we do this, even that master or a graduate engineer, who we're going to hire later, will not be useful because his sophisticated knowledge will be history. There will be new ones with better knowledge and, of course, crime will be more and despair in society too. I would appeal to the Government because we have a secretary of state here, as well as a minister for work, to use other methods to determine subsidies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, representatives of the Ministry of Labour. Ladies and gentlemen of the House. Respectable. Unfortunately, the fact that we Members of the Slovenian People's Party have already been alerted by the adoption of measures is that they are too late and ineffective. They don't benefit workers or employers, as it turns out. It is not surprising, therefore, that the Government has already reconsidered the amendment tabled by the State Council from February to today, although it has opposed the changes initially. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will always support measures that will help the economy while at the same time justly protecting the worker. At the beginning of the implementation of the law, employers immediately began to point out the difficulties in implementing Article 3, paragraph 1, of the Act concerning the prohibition of over-declaring workers throughout the business year in which the employer is involved in the implementation of the measure, even though the measure may be implemented for a maximum of six months. For this reason, the Council of State has drafted a proposal for a law amending the Law on partial full-time subsidisation to limit this prohibition only to the duration of the measure in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 4. In our view, the proposed amendment changes the basic concept of a valid law. Moreover, the provision, as proposed, is not clear, as it is not clear whether it is only part of the company or part of the business year. As is known, at the 2nd urgent meeting of the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons on 12. 1. In 2009, which considered the draft law on partial full-time subsidisation as a parent labour force, the Government's representatives did not answer the explicit question that the proposed measure and thus the whole law would apply to all economic operators, without division into individual units or departments or even individual workers. The debate on the parental committee on this amendment, which is before us, has already shown ambiguity, so we would expect the government or coalition to amend the law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect effective control over the implementation of laws that introduce such temporary measures so that they do not misuse these measures to the detriment of workers and to the detriment of budgetary money. Otherwise, we will support the marriage in the hope that it will be effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. A friendly greeting to the minister with fellow workers and, of course, what is often forgotten, a welcome and a greeting to the representative of the State Council. And at the beginning of the presentation of the position of the LDS Club, I am pleased that the Council of State has decided on this constructive move, introduced a law that we are now working together to form. The summer is approaching, many people are already wearing black, dark glasses, even in the National Assembly, and therefore this story, which we see as a welcome and successful, sees and paints black, especially those who say there are no measures, no results, of course, even in this measure, which certainly preserves jobs, see only what is bad and unpleasant, but obviously this is what I judge their nature. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we will support this law. Certainly not ideal, as it is not ideally many things in life, but this law certainly preserves jobs. Some also complain that we have made too much money for this law. If they're unused, it sure as hell doesn't hurt. At the time of the economic crisis and recession, we will have them committed to something, and we will commend the Ministry and the Council of State. Of course, we also have certain reservations and concerns that we do not want and do not want to present negative, black-sightedness, but are primarily a way for those who will still be concerned with this law to improve and upgrade it. It is certainly an intervention law for a time of crisis. The first of the envisaged measures, of course, which triggered a fundamental reflection on whether the law adequately regulates subsidisation and whether it will actually achieve the main objective, is to maintain jobs instead of immediate cancellations, in particular cancellations due to the collapse of contracts. Some economists have also expressed quite a few concerns, such as Dr. Marble’s statement that the measure was poorly targeted and underly restrictive. According to him, a donation is more than a deliberate measure, given that the crisis can be delayed and the state has a very limited volume of intervention funds. These considerations, in particular the long-term nature of the measure, should also be included in the continuation of the contexts and changes to the law if necessary. Some warnings have already proved to be well-founded and require amendments to the law, especially I am convinced that at the Ministry, those who try this law, its purpose and its aims to play will be able to step on the tail, so that the law will achieve even more its purpose. Also interesting are the experiences from, say, Germany, where this measure was adopted already in January 2009, and it is also extended until the end of 2010. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also plans to extend the implementation of the law. One of the Minister's arguments was that this measure should be introduced or intended to be introduced by certain Member States, including Germany's most frequently mentioned one. According to available information, this measure was introduced in Germany, I am correcting, already in mid-November 2008. It was extended by 18 months until the end of 2010. The German measure already concerns an existing transfer, which the Government has merely adapted and changed for the duration of the crisis, in such a way as to bring direct benefits to both employers and workers. In addition, both small and large enterprises are entitled to the measure. Finally, I could say that the law was adopted on the basis of a compromise taking into account the proposals made by the social partners, which have some shortcomings and uncertainties, but it is clear that the time will still be sufficient to remedy them and correct them. That's the end of it. Since this measure still retains jobs to the greatest extent and as a new measure is already envisaged, it is a compensation for waiting for work, we will support the amendment of the law in the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u211	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the draft law. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION LAW, BY SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you are, Mr. Minister, Dr. Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u212	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has drawn up a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Grants, which removes provisions that have not been implemented in practice or have been vague and ambiguous and removes certain shortcomings of the law, which will make a significant contribution to the more effective implementation of the system of scholarships. In particular, it is a matter of increasing the price of state scholarships, allowing more young people from socially disadvantaged backgrounds to be educated and re-establishing positive discrimination against single-parent families, candidates with special needs and candidates whose co-ordinators are persons with special needs. With the increase in censorship, the Ministry particularly wants to take care of vulnerable groups and to regulate the situation of an increased number of socially disadvantaged investors, which is now an additional problem in times of crisis. The State grant award thus increases from the current 60% minimum wage per family member to 65% of the minimum wage per family member, for those candidates who study or study at their place of residence, and increases to 66 to 68% of the minimum wage for those candidates who study outside the place of residence. For the category of single parent family candidates, candidates with special needs or candidates whose relatives are persons with special needs, a higher price is introduced, namely 70% of the minimum wage per family member. Such a change also constitutes a substantial simplification of the system so far, as censorship is no longer linked to the region's development index, which is also controversial in terms of the principle of equal treatment. The calculations show that on this basis we will be able to provide at least 4 thousand 900 new state scholarship candidates, and because of the deterioration of the economic and social situation, we expect that the flow or the fallout of potential candidates for these scholarships to be significantly higher, as we have seen from some estimates a few months ago that at least 200 per month is an additional one. The amendments and additions to this Act also address the shortcomings of the existing Zois scholarships, since now, after this amendment, a golden graduate can obtain a scholarship to continue higher education directly. The funding allocated for the grant is increasing to €110 million compared to the funding spent for this year's grant, and this effect of this Act amending the existing grant law is estimated at €9 million. Finally, let me add that we are preparing a new law on scholarships, and because the existing one will have to be so much renewed that it is not possible to deal with it after a shorter procedure, we have actually decided on this intervention. Otherwise, it would not be possible for these benefits, which are now provided by the amendment of the law, to be used in a generation of schooling in the coming year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the president, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u214	Hello again. At its 5th meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities also considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Grants, submitted by the Government with a proposal for a review and adoption of the bill following a reduced procedure. Representatives of the proposer, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, representative of the State Council and also representatives of the Student Organisation of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law. The amendment to Article 2 of the SDS Group was tabled and the members also received proposals for amendments to the Committee prepared on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The representative of the proposer, Dr Anja Kopač Mrak, provided an additional explanation of the bill's proposal, stressing that the proposed legal solution increases the possibility of obtaining state scholarships for students and students from socially disadvantaged families as a higher entry price is established. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented her written opinion and said that most of their comments concerned, in particular, the lack of clarity in the draft law. In particular, it drew attention to part of the comments on the provision of Article 2 to which the amendments were not proposed relating to the definition of categories of applicants to which a more favourable price should apply. The members of the committee and the invited members supported the amendment of the law in the debate, the debaters also agreed that it was not sufficient and that, as announced by the Government, fundamental changes to the scholarship law would be needed. However, in the debate on Article 2 and the amendment tabled by the SDS Group, despite the principled agreement to raise censorship by some discussers, it was stressed that, in view of the situation of the amendment, they would not support it at this time. Proponents of the proposed amendment considered that this was an increase of 2% from the government's proposal, which would in practice amount to 2 to 3,000 state scholarships per year more and thus not a radical increase. The amendment on the committee didn't get any support. At the same time, the view was expressed that a comprehensive amendment to the scholarship law was needed as soon as possible to regulate the scholarship policy in our country. The Committee adopted its amendments, paragraphs 1, 2, 6 and 7. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u216	Hello. In the SDS Group, we support the amendment of the law on scholarships. The law on scholarships was adopted in 2007 and entered into force with the school year 2008/2009. At the time of the adoption of the law and at the time of the debate, we agreed to analyse whether it had produced the effects and results that we had planned or not a few months after its entry into force. Together we can find that he has not brought in new tens of thousands of scholarships and we are still far from what they have proposed in the Student Organisation of Slovenia, twenty thousand new scholarships. The problem of reducing the number of scholarships is not from yesterday and it is therefore necessary to say two; since 1990, the number of scholarships has been drastically reduced, resulting in an increase in the number of national or state scholarships, but not sufficiently. Another problem that we did not pay enough attention to or can be said that the scholarship policy did not follow the changes is the fact that the number of students between 1990 and today has increased by just over six thousand, while the number of students has increased by one hundred and seventy thousand, from thirty thousand to one hundred and fourteen thousand. Surely the scholarship policy in the last decade has not been adequate, so there has been the adoption of a law aimed at increasing staff scholarships, which of course does not go overnight. And if we're from the times when the fivety-five thousand scholarships fell to seven thousand, we probably have to ask ourselves what needs to be done. In order to change this trend, much more will have to be done on the part of the Government as well as us, and some of these incentives and a more clear stance on human resources scholarships will also bring about the novelism that we are considering today. The novelty also introduces an amendment to the article concerning foreign education and facilitates the grant of the grant to applicants. An article setting out the censorship for obtaining a state grant is also amended. Census is increasing, which is what we support in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as this will allow for the acquisition of a state scholarship to a larger number of candidates from socially weaker families. However, with the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, we are also improving or proposing a slightly higher censorship. At the same time, colleagues and colleagues, I ask them to forget that the amendment is proposed by our parliamentary group and has before them the fact that the proposal has been prepared by the Student Organisation of Slovenia and that the dilemma is only one: whether we accept the proposal of the Government, which means the new five thousand scholarships, or the proposal of the Student Organisation, which means seven to eight thousand new scholarships. On the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, the Secretary of State explained that, even when our amendment was adopted, the funds provided for in the budget would have been sufficient, despite the fact that the Government, with the 2009 budget rebalancing, would have taken the funds away from the State grants of EUR 6.8 million because these funds were not used or the grants were not granted. The low entry price was clearly reflected in undivided state scholarships. If the entry price has not increased, as proposed, the end of the year will remain unrealised at this item of state grants. We support the amendment in the SDS Group, but we propose an amendment that will be further improved, so I invite you to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u218	Have a nice hello again. So, as we have already heard, the law on scholarships, which was passed in June 2007, entered into force with School 2008/2009, with the exception of that part, says the staff scholarships where the law entered into force already in July 2007. With this law, the competence to grant scholarships was transferred to the Employment Centres for Social Work and to the Public Fund for the Development of Human Resources and Scholarships, as regards Zois's scholarships. Of course, with the current novel, we are actually correcting what the previous law has broken because of the censorships it has set - to put it that way. Of course, the number of scholarships does not increase, as was somehow planned in the previous term, but is slowly returning to the level at which it has once been. Everything else, but higher numbers, are so far pious desires. It has already been mentioned here by the Minister that the reasons are very diverse and that a new law on scholarships is being prepared. However, this proposed solution increases the possibility of obtaining state scholarships for students from vulnerable families. The censorship is increasing, for some more, for some less. Now, of course, the question of available resources is whether this censorship could increase further, as proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party on a proposal, if I understand correctly, the Student Organisations. In principle, there is no reservation to support such an amendment, but it is true that I, although I was also on the committee, did not understand so clearly the Secretary of State's statement that the money in the budget is really enough. At the same time, it must be said that grants as social benefits are very wide-ranging. If you look at the censorship they need to be satisfied to get a scholarship, but you compare this censorship with the censorship they need to be satisfied with, in order for someone to receive another social benefit, this price is set very high in this case. Comparatively speaking, of course. At the same time, it must also be said that criteria such as permanent residence are not necessarily the right ones to rely on in this determination of censorship. There are some manipulations here, and perhaps the new law on scholarships will also take on more thorough control in this area. It must be said, however, that we do not think that the scholarship would be too much, even if perhaps one is not the most justifiable grant. We are most pleased to align ourselves with this novel, or somehow to discriminate positively against, those who deserve it. In short, candidates from single parent families, candidates with special needs or candidates whose relatives are persons with special needs. We are also delighted to see the removal of the shortcomings of the law seen in Zois’s scholarships. In particular, it is worth mentioning that this legal solution also removes certain other provisions which are not linked to censorship, but which could not be implemented in practice - this is Article 11 which regulates education abroad, since Slovenian ministries responsible for education and higher education do not have the authority to issue an accreditation certificate for foreign institutions and programmes. Such jurisdiction, of course, belongs to the competent ministries of the countries where individuals study. The second thing that ends with this amendment of the law is this legal void regarding the local competence of social work centres. The existing first paragraph of Article 42 provided only for the granting of a State grant to be decided at the first stage by the competent centre for social work, but nowhere in the law does it specify which centre is locally competent, nor can it be established on the basis of other laws or regulations in which social work centres are given specific powers. Thus certain irregularities are eliminated, of course not. The considerations expressed here regarding the number of staff scholarships are, of course, true. However, it is likely that this problem is not only the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, but also employers and someone else involved in this entire process of scholarship. In the current economic situation, it seems to us that unless, of course, the Ministry of Family and Social Affairs feels otherwise that this law is good enough, according to existing options, it governs the area of scholarship. But if the ministry finds a more generous solution, we will support it as well as this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u220	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Nice greetings to everyone, headed by the minister with the team! And for the introduction, the law that the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs prepared came across in our parliamentary group on a favourable relationship for reasons. The first reason is that in this way, although it sounds somewhat different - the increase in censorship allows easier and wider access to study aid. The second reason is that we are serious when we are constantly talking about how we are not going to meet some of the solvable, survival goals in Slovenia, but that we are striving for a development based on the best possible quality of knowledge. Without students, without the possibility of study, without much knowledge this cannot be achieved. We believe that the positive discrimination offered in this bill is such that it is worthy of support, because it lowers social barriers and lowers local barriers for all those who want to study with public aid. Therefore, we must say that while we are not to point to others, it is important to note that the situation could be better if we did not make some mistakes in the past. In the previous term, we have changed - with the opposition of the DeSUS Group - the law on coordination of transfers and thus frozen social transfers for a good time, that was a big mistake. Later, in the DeSUS Group, we tried to correct it three times with the proposed laws. On one occasion, this law, which would allow a better standard for those who get social transfers banned for another marriage, was bad, although we supported it, we had a number of comments - the Single Pension Supplement Act, which we will once again talk about and which we are not all now evaluating equally. And the third time he was put in, he was supported, but supported in such a way that the opposition rightly, as it is now doing, said he had been mutilated. That's what happened to us, I'm sorry. If this had not happened to us, the level of social transfers would have been significantly better. That's why we're going to support the marriage. We will not support a fairly attractive amendment, because we do not support a game that does not seem to be as correct as a trader who first raises the price and then offers an action sale. Or in a mirror, it could be called the freeze of transfers and, after we are no longer burdened with someone else, we refer to or point out why the lifts are not higher. This is how a sketch is played for the public. But we have to warn you that Janus' image has both faces. One that's real and the other that's played a few times. In the DeSUS Group, we support this law because we support the social state, because we think we have enough sense of social sensitivity, and because we believe that in fact, perhaps not as much as students would like, but we help or alleviate their study burdens. The Government's assessment is that what is proposed is appropriate. We'll agree to that. We'll back this up. An amendment that is politically highly skilled in manipulating the public, but, as I said, no. To conclude, even in the past, when the law was amended, he promised much more than he later gave. With this law we are now correcting a little bit, and that is why we will support it in the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to visitors, visitors. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Of course, this law must be supported or amended by this law - absolutely. But if I'm allowed to, I'd light it up a little bit in the perspective of time. The law that they are supplementing today, the law on scholarship, was passed four years ago. At that time, we had $60,000, specifically 58 thousand 500 scholarships, and the then law was essentially supposed to raise this scholarship by 10,000. But in practice, it happened the other way around. The law, instead of increasing the number of scholarships, actually reduced the number of scholarships by 10,000. What we are correcting today is essentially giving us a sustainable situation for 2005 because we will increase the number of scholarships by 5,000 if we accept the amendment of the Student Organisation, this number will be maybe 7,000, which is the right thing to do. If we don't do this, then we haven't done anything or anything, because there's still 17,000 scholarship waiters. However, that the Government is not in general here, I would like to stress through the work done in the National Assembly, that is, with a rebalancing we have collected EUR 6.8 million on this portfolio. Changing the entry price to talk about how good the law is, but not having money, because you picked it up, that is to say that we do not respect all the criteria necessary to realize it, will lead us again to find that we cannot fulfill it, not because of censorship, but because of the money we do not have, to pay our scholarships or grant our scholarships. We will find a new apology, and again we will speak the untruths and half-truths to those who are willing to listen to us. I've already told my mother's work body that we support all the well-meaning moves of the government. One such law was the previous amendment to the law, but we do not understand why it is not invested in knowledge. If we are a knowledge-based society, then there should be a knowledge of priority in the Republic of Slovenia and we should not make the mistakes we are making; to first collect money that has not been distributed due to inadequate censorship and then change the criteria and tomorrow we will find that we do not have the money. These are unacceptable and misleading moves, and I would ask the Secretary of State to tell us when all these 17,000 scholarships can be awarded. Because if we left that money, that 6 million 800,000 money where it was and wouldn't be collected with a balance sheet, we'd probably have money for all 14,000 scholarships today. That's the truth. And we wouldn't be discussing that we would only approve 5,000 more than what happened in the past. Certainly better is something than nothing, not saying that we did good because we did not do well. We've made another mistake. With the coming time, someone has already given up the analytical state of schooling, but this difference will deepen, because students and students are from year to year, thank God, more. I would appeal to the government to correct these injustices, which have really been in the past, without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. Respectable. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the main solutions and objectives set out in the draft amendments to the law on scholarships. Following the government's assurances, changes are intended to increase the possibility of obtaining state scholarships for students and students from socially disadvantaged families, as a higher entry rate is established and allow for more effective implementation of the scholarship system. In particular, we would like to stress that we also support the promotion of the human resources scholarship of employers included in the single regional schemes in order to grant as many human resources scholarships as possible. As is known, the very low entry price was the reason that many state scholarships remained, unfortunately, unallocated. The current 2009 budget rebalancing again reduces state grant funding by depriving more than 20 000 applicants this year or every third person who has applied for it. If the entry price does not rise, as proposed, at the end of the year the funds at the state grant line will remain unrealised again. In the Slovenian People's Party, we therefore support the proposal of the Student Organisation of Slovenia that in the first paragraph of Article 2, the percentages of the minimum wage per family member for candidates studying outside their place of residence should increase from 66 to 68%. This was also proposed by the SDS in its amendment. This means an increase of an additional 2% from the government's proposal, which would in practice mean 2 to 3 000 state scholarships per year more. In the Slovenian People's Party, we always warn that we must give equal opportunities to educate all young people and all the people, regardless of where they live and what social status they have. Therefore, we are convinced that the level of scholarships should also be increased for those students who live the farthest from the major centers where they are usually educated, or for those who come from the lowest income families. We agree with the point made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which points out that Article 2 amending Article 13 should, in terms of equality of treatment, consider the possibility of a more favourable condition being imposed on a wider range of candidates from socially weak environments, such as children without parents, children in foster care, etc., who are not covered by the proposed provisions of the second paragraph. We also agree with other comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, so we will support the amendments of the Committee and the amendments of the SDS, which follow the proposal of the Student Organisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Sajovic, on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Greetings to the minister and the team and to the students on the balcony. The proposal that we are considering today will be supported by the Liberal Democracy Club. Above all, we estimate that desires, needs are one thing and real opportunities are another. We estimate that it is adapted to the opportunities that the country has and can do in the area of finance. The proposed legal solution, which we support, increases the possibility of obtaining state scholarships for students and students from socially disadvantaged families as a higher entry rate is established. With the proposed law, they also want to allow scholarships to train as many young people as possible from socially disadvantaged environments and to re-establish positive discrimination against candidates, both those from single-parent families and candidates with special needs and candidates, relatives of persons with special needs. We also welcome the fact that the proposed law seeks to promote the education of talented people and to promote the acquisition of vocational education that allows employment in the long term. In the programme of the Party of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we wrote that we want to encourage deficit, natural and technical study orientations mainly by providing more appropriate study conditions; that we want to promote scholarship policy with partnership, an interested economy and other employers, that we want to promote the professions of primary school students and their parents, and that through an encouraging scholarship policy we will increase the proportion of young people who decide on vocational education and thus reduce the imbalance in the labour market. That is why, of course, we support the law in the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. It seems to us that the amendment to Article 2 is also appropriate because, of course, censorship is increasing within the scope of the possibility and given that there are no financial options, we also accept with understanding that the proposed amendment on the Committee has not received support. However, we have a general comment on the regulation of the scholarship policy in our country. For as soon as possible it is necessary to prepare a comprehensive amendment to the scholarship legislation. And as far as the amendments are concerned. The amendment to Article 2 is prepared with a view to clarifying the pricing of the grant, in terms of linking the corresponding percentage of the minimum wage to the family member. The term "State grant" granted to candidates who fulfil the general conditions laid down in this Act and who do not exceed 65% of the average monthly income per family member in the previous calendar year before the application is submitted is also properly regulated. There was a 60% censorship here before. The definition of single - parent families is also important to us. It is the living community of one of the parents and children, or the living community of children and persons entrusted with the care and training of children. Where those of the parents or persons entrusted with child care and training establish a new living community, the conditions for granting the grant shall be determined in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article; and the definition of a person with special needs. In view of this, we believe that the law is adapted to the financial and other capabilities that we have in the country at this time, so we will support it in a united way in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u228	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The scholarship policy is very important for a country that is betting on knowledge. With the help of scholarships, knowledge can be more accessible mainly to those living outside university centres. We all know that, especially in times of crisis, when the parents of some children lose their jobs, the scholarship as a social component is very important. Our scholarship system, unfortunately, is not yet in place. The scholarships are too small and there are also promises of 10,000 new scholarships - only if you remember the SDS pre-election campaign, where they wrote that they were making promises and that they had provided 10,000 new scholarships - perhaps a little over the edge. There was nothing out of it, just the opposite. 17,000 applicants, that is, young people, fell out of censorship because they also took into account pensions, child support, subsistence and so on. The new law abolishes such irregularities. It is not ideal, but it is a step towards getting one comprehensive law, as we have also heard from the Ministry of Labour. There is a greater possibility of obtaining state scholarships for students and students, mainly from socially more vulnerable families, as a higher price is set, i.e. 65% for those candidates who are studying or studying at their place of residence, and up to 68% of the minimum wage per family member for those candidates who are studying or studying outside their place of residence. Previously, this price was 60%, or 65%, and now this price rises to 68%. For the category of single parent family candidates, candidates with special needs or candidates whose relatives are persons with special needs, a higher price of 70% of the minimum wage per family member is introduced. But it is true that if the government - and let's be honest here - proposed a 75% censorship, the SDS would table an amendment to 77%. It is a pity that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, when they are in opposition, they are willing to do very much for young people when they are in government, fighting little or little. Slovenia and thus students receive for the first time in the history of Slovenia the law on scholarships, which introduces higher censorship, which means that more young people will be eligible for a state scholarship, namely 5,000 new scholarships. We have not gone to 10, up to 20,000 scholarships, which is a real need in Slovenia. Such a proposal also represents a major simplification of the system so far, as censorship is no longer linked to the region's development index. The lack of legislation regarding Zois' scholarships is also addressed, in the sense that Zois' scholarship, which is in particular a graduate student, ensures that he obtains a scholarship to continue his higher education. A number of other shortcomings are still being addressed, such as a vague or ambiguous provision on direct human resources scholarships. We must be aware that the need for staff scholarships in Slovenia is very high at this time, and that this need will continue to grow, and therefore the link between the economy and education is essential, especially with the students who will identify these needs most. There is also a legal void on the local competence of the Centre for Social Work. The existing first paragraph of Article 42 provides only that the award of a State grant shall be decided at the first stage by the competent centre for social work, but shall not be determined by law which centre is locally competent, nor shall it be possible to establish it on the basis of other laws or regulations in which social work centres are given specific powers. The fact is that the proposed law increases the number of state scholarships for students and students from socially weaker families, increases the transparency of the entire system of scholarships, the targeting of scholarships that address the needs of the economy and professions, which are mainly in the long term employable, aligns the scholarship system with the social transfer system and removes provisions that have not been implemented in practice or have been unclear and ambivalent and will, after a new one, contribute significantly to the more effective implementation of the scholarship system. That is why, of course, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is also very grateful that it has also joined the Student Organisation and tried to find dialogue with them. As you know, the proposal to increase censorship by the Student Organisation was to 70%. This is not possible right now. However, we have a clear assurance from the Ministry that a new law will also be drawn up with the students, where the system of scholarships will be fully resolved in the future, because of course we need a new law. The principle of the proposed law, therefore, is to allow scholarships to train as many young people as possible from socially weak environments, and we must also insist on this in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u229	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and on the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 19 May. 5. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing the report's rolling. [[...]] Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. Of course, we will support our amendment and to our colleagues, who had much to say about how we have done nothing for young people, I would not now like to explain what has happened in four years. But I also said at the outset that there were actually no 10,000 new scholarships after the adoption of the law, and before that we had no marriage. However, it is important that the law was adopted because a whole lot of things have been done on this basis; therefore, the approval of scholarships has been transferred to social work centres. As it is said, we said that in one year we would look at what the law had put forward, where we might not have done everything we could. I agree that even then, the representatives of the student organisation have warned about certain things, but this government has been able to take quite a lot of money from the state grant line, and if it were so taken up in this and would want such a high increase in scholarships, I probably wouldn't do that. As it is said, the law, the amendment we have tabled, we want you to see above all as the amendment of the Student Organisation of Slovenia and not our amendment, because obviously some of the "darkness falls to the eyes" as soon as they see the sign of the SDS, and they have great problems with that. I therefore propose that you support the amendment for the benefit of the students, and we will not explain that you supported our amendment, but the amendment of the Student Organisation of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u231	The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I believe that it was not easy for my fellow Member, Dejan Levanič, to decide between the student organisation's expectations and the amendment's proposal to increase the scholarship censorship. However, he decided as a good acquaintance and one who, as a student himself, defended the rights of students and the desire to be equally accessible to all, for the version that is, at the moment, realistic and even one that endures. At the time of the consideration of the law on the working body, we have already weighed matters and arguments, and I do not know how many times it has been possible to hear an explanation by the representatives of the Government, either by the secretary of state or by the minister, why the money envisaged for the scholarships had to be withdrawn from this item in the course of the rebalancing debate. Because it was, so to speak, dead capital, because it was not possible for the scholarships for which the tender was awarded in the autumn and began to distribute this money with the school year. However, let those who adopted this law on scholarships with the promises they had at the time, whether they had a happy hand in anticipation, and foretelling what the effects would be and what the consequences would be. Perhaps it would be good for us to look at our colleague and colleagues here in the face of our own parliamentary group and find that there is a good purpose, a good goal at the end of this exercise is different from it was intended, and we would also take this into account when weighing our or current government legislative proposals. So this is how the censorship is set up, but we are improving compared to the basic text. I will not support this proposed amendment of the SDS Group. Not because I'd have trouble with the eyes of such a species so that I'd be "dark" if I saw my political opponents with different views. I find the subject primarily because of the problems of vision that I have in the years I wear, which are quite common. Once again, the announcement of the new law on scholarships is on the horizon, the agreement with the Student Organisation and the Diagnostic Organization is on the move. I am confident that this dialogue will bring solutions that are closer to the expectations of the student and student populations. Of course, we should ask ourselves why it is so misleading, after all, to discuss it. Maybe we've never had a scholarship law in the past, but there have been scholarships, believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u233	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u234	Thank you very much. First of all, let me respond to the suggestion given in relation to "darkness in the eyes" in such a way as to say that I do not speak from aversion to the SDS. After all, I was a member of the ruling coalition in the previous term. I support a lot of laws, respect my colleagues and colleagues, but I have sometimes opposed them, especially when the proposals were bad. And it was a bad proposal for a law that I mentioned earlier, which was lowering the level of social assistance. I really objected to that. I prefer "darkness in the eyes" when it comes to over-populism and over-political manipulation. And now this is happening. I should therefore point out once again: those who propose more today have proposed less. Back then they froze transfers because it was a period of much higher inflation, the inflation rates we now have, in fact, took real value from students and others. And now we're trying to fix this in some dimensions that the professional services have estimated are also financially sustainable. When the dust falls around this debate, you will see, all three of us will be satisfied. We're all gonna win. The coalition and the government, because, I suppose, a proposal that has been considered but adopted and we will be satisfied. The students are likely because they will actually gain something, but the opposition will also be pleased, because its purpose was to just throw the pack in the picture - and they did.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u235	The word has Mrs. Robert Hrvat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u236	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present. I must say in the introduction that I support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on scholarships. And it must also be said that in many ways I also agree with the other side. Perhaps some mistake has been made and it is right that these errors are being corrected. You know, a student organisation or a student issue is a living organism that is larger or smaller, and it is simply necessary to adapt to this matter. And today we are witnessing a bill that is good. Good. And I'm really bothered by this polarization inside, I don't know, the left - the right, who did something earlier, who will now. The fact is that we are here today, where we are, and today we need to move forward. And the proposal of this law certainly does. The proposal of the Student Organisation for this amendment is that the range of censorship for those away from the site of the study is changed from the proposed 66 to 68% to 66 to 70% of the minimum wage. So it's an amendment to the student organization. No one has taken this amendment, and I know that the Student Organisation has been in all the parliamentary groups, at least I suppose. And it seemed to me that it made sense and right for someone to respect their wishes. Of course, it depends on policy, on the National Assembly, whether we accept this amendment or not. And that's all it's about, nothing else. So it has to be done, maybe look back a little bit and find out that there were €9 million in the budget for scholarships. The funds remained unexploited, so we received explanations on the board. At first, I was a little surprised and surprised, but then, after explanation, the matter was a little clearer. But look, with the rebalancing, 6.8 million euros have been redistributed to some other items that have nothing to do with the scholarship. This moment is in the budget, I think, 2.2 million euros earmarked for these scholarships, which will mean, at least that's how the Government provides, about 5,000 new scholarships or more scholarships, as it has been so far. Of course, when this price rises from 66% to 68% of the minimum wage per family member. So I guess that'll do it. And here's the question, why don't you hear the student organization's appeal? Why not support this, this change, in fact when it comes to minimal change, but with this minimal change at least 2 to 3,000 students will receive a scholarship - more, I say of course, more. So I suggest we have 2 to 3 thousand students living away from the city of study who will be fine with their scholarships. Let me add that, in my view, the amendment is justified, despite the fact that some have said that it is unjustifiable. I do not believe that it is extending the range of beneficiaries to this extent in order to endanger the scholarship scheme. I don't think so. And it would be possible, if not otherwise, to provide some more money by rebalancing the balance that is forecasting and preparing it, given that you have reduced the item from 9 million to as much as you have. So I really am, but I'm honestly saying that we should forget about who the proposer is. It's the least important. The fact is, this amendment was drafted by the Student Organisation. And if we have a face, it's hard to say no to this amendment. What's the end of this? What's it really about? It's a cosmetic amendment to the law, it's about 3,000 new scholarships and it's a student organization.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u237	Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr President. That's a problem from the past. We have to agree with that. This could not be the fault of this government, probably the previous one altogether, because simply until the censorship rose, the money remained because there were no conditions for the grant. The only reason we made a mistake in this term is because we took the remaining money with the balance and put it somewhere else. And of course it's important who proposed more and essentially gave less. This is important. Mr. Willie Rezman talked about it. This is important. But these same culprits today say it's somehow their fault, as far as I understand it, and they're summarizing the student organization's amendments and trying to eliminate this injustice. If we don't listen to this, then we'll only have 5,000 more scholarships, and today there's 17,000 applicants. And if we find, in fact, that we're at the 2005 level with this correction, then we can say that we haven't done enough. But if we accept this amendment, and then we reduce this difference, there'll be only 10,000 applicants left. Of course, it's a condition to raise the price. This has also been done by the applicants or the applicant in the conclusions of the parent working body as his proposal. But I would like to draw attention to one other problem that has been known since before. I would therefore ask both the Minister and the Secretary of State to answer this question. Will we have enough money? Because we're going to accept something today, we know that - or 7 or 5,000 scholarships more. That is certainly a fact, and it is right to do so. Will we have enough money on the budget line given that we have taken away from this budget item EUR 6.8 million? Don't come to the National Assembly tomorrow with a new apology, because that would be unacceptable. I'd like a clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u239	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u240	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members. At the Ministry of Labour, we have no problems with the applicants from which they come, nor with the SDS. However, we have problems with the law; a law that has been passed that we wanted to change more radically, and we have found that we will run out of time if we want to help the generation of students in the coming year with these changes, because it does not go through a reduced process, because we need so many changes that it is simply not possible by procedure. We do, however, as we have already promised, and I confirm this once again, in cooperation with the Student Organisation of Slovenia and other partners in the new law, which will give a thorough re-thinking of the scholarship policy and, I believe, have also led to better solutions than we have now. What we are proposing to you today is these urgent changes in order for a generation of students and students next year to have a better chance of receiving scholarships. And since there is also a variety of information on how the current scholarship system works, however, allow me to point out that the current recipients of state scholarships are about 38 000 - I quote round numbers - ; the recipients of Zois scholarships 13 000; the recipients of public-funded staff scholarships, about 2 000 and other staff scholarships funded by others from other sources, about 5,000. So if we add this number up, it's 58 grand. With the system that is now in place and with the changes that we are proposing, as I mentioned above, we expect to get around 7 to 8 thousand new scholarships there. This is the number that is close to the promise he made at the time of the introduction of this law, which we are now correcting, former Minister Drobnič, is to provide 7 to 10 thousand scholarships in two years. Now, in this number, we're even close to that promise. I do not think that this is enough for the scholarship policy to be complemented and to be more concerned about this area. However, we are going in this direction, including the changes that are now being proposed. Why are we having trouble with the amendment that was put forward? For the first time, because it relates mainly to state grants, which, however, need to be seen as a social instrument, as a social correction. Why is that? Because it is not only a question of money available here, but above all the issue of the relationship of this correction or this social instrument to other social transfers. Let me tell you that the minimum income, which is the price for obtaining monetary social assistance, today is €221, which is less than the price that we are now proposing. It is said that the price to obtain a scholarship is much more favourable than the price to obtain monetary social assistance, and even compared to the net minimum wage, this price, which we define for obtaining a state grant, is only lower by €80. Thus, we are moving here in one sensitive area where we must not completely break the link between social transfers and this is an important reason why we should not go too high with the censorship of state scholarships. The second problem that we have with this amendment is that we must not also undermine the relationship between the special social categories that we want to favour in some way in order to really put positive discrimination in a more favourable position, these are mainly single-parent families, which we know to have multiple costs of living to be borne with less resources relative to the member, and also not undermine against the second category, these are candidates with special needs. This difference we also wanted to maintain in this amendment of the law, and I think it is necessary that these groups need our special attention. And this amendment would make that difference. Well, and the third important reason is that this could, and already, weaken the purpose of the grant law. Why? Because if we put these censorships too high, we will have a problem that, instead of heating up potential candidates for human resources scholarships that remain unsplit, we will be running away - this is happening to us - into so-called state scholarships. And one of the purposes of the law is to have a positive impact on the targeting of young people in areas where the need for education or for workers is greater. As a result, these relations must also be treated very sensitively. Of course, we will reopen all these questions, as we say, when we go to prepare a new proposal for the law, but for the time being, I think that the most machined was possible so that the next generation of students and students next year could reach the state grant in a significant number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice-President, Minister with co-workers, students and students. You wrote, students, marriage, I tell you that there is no student or amendment. That's what happened in today's debate - I'm sorry. Given that I was a member of the government coalition in the previous term, and I also know something, because we know how things in the coalition are going on, that you're negotiating inside before you're preparing legislation or when you're preparing it, even with the departments, we really thought it would take eight, nine million euros for scholarships and we had a fair purpose with the law. That is why we also had such an item in the 2009 budget, and it turned out when the law and these first calls were put into effect under this law that the funds remained and, of course, the current new coalition, the then opposition, had redistributed them to some other items. If we had any further power, we'd change the law immediately, not go down on scholarships. But we don't have this option, so, of course, we're simply warning students about this right now. All those or all those Members and Members of Parliament that you said were good, but that the problem is financial opportunities and so on - now what the Minister has said is true. So you don't need money in the coalition or in the 2009 balance, but in the 2010 budget when you prepare it, but it will have to be properly prepared and covered. The fact is that we are not talking today - of course in this law, we are already at the ZGD, the Company Act and so on - about those who are taking hundreds of thousands of euros a year to sit in the supervisory world, about those who are taking millions of euros home and so on and so on, who have privatized and robbed our country, but we are talking about those who will receive scholarships, of course, given the status of the minimum wage. Good and right, though, to take that into account, because I say, admitting a mistake is not a sin, but it is a shame if you are not prepared to correct a mistake. And in the election campaign, we also said honestly that there would be so many scholarships and there would be. This was also indicated by the budget line, so it was not a bluff. However, some have also announced in the election campaign that if we come to power, honey and milk will flow. Now, since you're in the cloud, it's not the honey and not the milk, it's the other tsunami in the economic field, in the human resources area -- there was one such tsunami yesterday in HIT Gorica, too, when those able-bodied people have to leave -- it's happening. I'm afraid this tsunami is now also happening, unfortunately, on this scholarship policy. And I am sorry for the students and students, those who will be left - and remain from day to day - without jobs, but have to leave the cities and go home without completing these studies. Last week, I met two people in the office of a Member who came and asked me, "Mr. Member, how can I spend 400 euros on a four-member family? "The woman is unemployed, he has EUR 400; in short, two primary school children, obligations and positions; fixed rates are EUR 242. The rest remains for survival in one way or another, even though we know that there is co-financed by the congregation’s diet of children in school and I don’t know what. But these are catastrophic things. Colleagues and colleagues, if this amendment is accepted, we are discussing two million euros at an annual level, not for 2009, but for the 2010 budget. Let's be reasonable, let's do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u243	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening the application. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Minister, you've said a lot about what I wanted to ask: What does this difference mean, 66 to 68 or 66 to 70? I got part of the answer, part of the hope that I'll get it in the number of fellows who are or are not involved in this aid. Days ago, colleagues and colleagues remember, it was the so-called spring day, the European Spring Day, where science and education were the subject and content. And highlights how important education is at this point, how important young people are, how important it is to educate. So, we decided it was important. The second question that follows is: What are we going to do to allow this importance? Students, students do this willingly to study. Of course, the State has an obligation to do so with a well-organised study and with the help of students. We are, but unfortunately, in times like these, and I'll say, like in some other category, that I won't be interrupted by you -- some category of people who are really hard to scholarship and help their children in their education. It's hard to go from one place to another 80, 90, 100 kilometers; students can't drive, they have to be somewhere. It'll cost you. Education costs money because it's also worth the most. And now we have to decide whether we're going to help and how we're going to help. I'm not saying that this form, expressed in terms of 66% to 70%, which is, I also take an amendment of students, or that 66% to 68% is right. If you were "hot" and you were guessing, if you had the chance to give us an amendment, we'd write 66% to 69%, but this isn't a game of numbers. It's an expressive aid. Expressed assistance, which is just one of the political options, this time should be like "Caesar's new clothes" - no color, they are naked, given on behalf of students. I respect you! But you tell the Minister: this is not possible because there is no money, it is not possible because there are no conditions, it is not possible because it is possible, or it is possible if we decide. [[...]] We too will respect the opportunities the Government has. But to be honest is to say that it's hard for me to say, but we insist on 66% to 68%, so I'll understand that it's bad if it's true! [[...]] But I also understand that it's not populist to say 66% to 70% because we want to help. But you will be the judges, and I therefore expect the government to make it clear to us a little bit more. You've already been something to us, Mr. Secretary. We're almost there! What does that mean, if 66% to 68%, that means the state has so much money, it can do it - 17,000, I mean, students are excluded. If we go to 66% to 70% of the minimum salary for state scholarships, it means we include the seventeen, but we don't have the money. Tell us! So give us a proposal and let's just write 67%:, one percent, one percent, clear. And we stick to it! I don't want one of our desires for education, intelligence, the importance of education to be broken by a political copy on the students' shoulders. That would be very ugly, on the one hand and on the other hand. It wouldn't be fair, it wouldn't be fair. If we want to have education, if we want to have many young students who will also contribute in a European scale to the importance of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, then let us give them this opportunity. Let's do more and get somewhere else. We all know that if you put it somewhere, you have to take it somewhere. But because we express our desire for education, science, the importance of education, then something, let's take a chance and here's an offer. Let's take it, let's go. I know it's hard, we'll find it somewhere else; but let's give, let's keep our promises, our wishes, not listen four days ago, how important it is, I don't know, we're listening to another story today, and one day we're going to listen to another story. I will respect this amendment, but I will also respect the arguments that the Government will make directly and specifically. Is 60% to 70% plus twelve thousand, and there's no money, or does that mean another seventeen thousand, and the money here is? I don't know, tell me!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u245	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u246	Mr President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, it seems very important to point out in the opening that it was not until 2007 that a system law on scholarships was passed. You know, for 15 years in this country, the LDS has run the government, which is still in this government today, and has not been able to pass this system law on scholarships. And in the government of Janez Janša in 2007, this system law was adopted and it is quite logical that all those who participated in the adoption of this law were aware that it would take at least a year to identify those problems that were not foreseeable at the time. And so, logically, it is normal for such a law to be built up and changed from year to year. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party we decided to sum up what the Student Organisation of Slovenia said. So that such a law, this change of law would not satisfy what the students expected. And that's why we proposed a change in censorship from 66% to 70% of the minimum wage per family member. I think it is most important that we follow what the Student Organisation of Slovenia reminds us of in this way. And it also seems important to me to stress that I am going back a little bit to the social field, because this problem concerns this area. Look at how many students are graduating today, and they can't get a job. Every day we talk about so many and so many unemployed. And we can see that school policy has been extremely flawed over the past 15 years. The problem was, above all, that today, almost half of these graduates could not get a job. The adoption of this system law has given an opportunity to promote deficit levels of education, which means a focus on professions that bring a movement of development or added value to both educational and professional work. And, Minister, you mentioned earlier that you would consider a new scholarship policy. I ask you kindly, and I hope that it will not happen again for 15 years as it took the government of Janez Janša to adopt a system law on scholarships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u247	Mrs. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u248	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you. I also support the initiative of the Student Organisation and also the amendment tabled by our party. We who come from the periphery know what that means. This country beats the periphery all the time. I come from Koroška and to Ljubljana I need two hours on bad roads, after August. And not only the distance from the capital, but also the quality of life and the standard in the countryside is worse. And it would be good for the state to make a certain social adjustment after that. But I'm afraid we won't be successful at this. That is why I propose something else, colleagues and colleagues - smiling, good will. Our parliamentary group, 27 of us, plus Franz Pukšič, an unrelated Member, is a scholarship from our salaries, we grant students every month. I am a student of dentistry with Raven in Koroška, or he is also a good athlete. 28 gives us scholarships. Let it be decided by you, colleagues and colleagues, let it be decided by the ministerial assembly as well. I think Borut Pahor could do even better in public if he were to grant a student a scholarship from Primorska. His image would certainly be more beautiful than when he talks about how he pays for his coffees. We pay for them ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u249	Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u250	Thank you so much for saying that. Since this debate today has not always stuck to this item of the agenda or the topic that we are dealing with, we do not mind if I myself may be a little wider and shed light on the circumstances in which we are adopting this law on scholarships and why it is possible to do so as it is. No government, not this one, not the last one, not any back, could have done as much damage in the area of scholarship as the economic crisis has done for students. Why? Because the scholarship is not really the instrument by which this country actually buys social peace and finances studies of learning and learning youth. This institute, which in fact allows in some ways one partial autonomy to this population, both economically and otherwise, is an institution of student work. And that's it, now most of all at the stroke. Sometimes it fell by a third, half, two thirds. And you can figure out how much of the share, if you look at the traffic that these job brokers have had, compare this to the mass that the state is giving to scholarships, and you can figure out what the average student's budget is really decisive about whether he can do something or can't do something. Let's be honest and say that the scholarship system may not have been regulated for a long time because there was really no need, because in this country there are unique solutions to how to resolve the social status of students and how to somehow buy social peace. Some other concessions came from this student work, in short, money for the good organisation of students. That is why we can also have strong student organizations today, which we have helped some in the past to create today as they are. And there are, in fact, strong representative unions of students who will always come to the National Assembly with their demands, like all other unions. And that's right. But the time is obviously right now, so that this issue can be addressed in a more thorough manner. The Minister says that the law currently in force, including with improvements, cannot be good enough to last long enough, so he is preparing a new one, which is good and right. And if I may now try to address the topics that are here today with these general references. Perhaps the bill that is coming would also consider other ways of scholarshiping, credit and so forth as Western Europe knows, and it should be said that the responsibility of each borrower here is great. But my generation and those who are coming are used to taking care of most things on their own, that there is no more Jazbinska, who would give us apartments for small money, and that we live on credit. Maybe that's also an indirect answer to colleague Friday, why I can't grant anyone my own scholarship. I can't because I've been credited to the point where two kids just can't afford it. It might also be possible to consider the righteousness of certain solutions. For I myself cannot agree that this country, as has been said, is beating the periphery. Maybe. He also beats Ljubljana. You yourself know what the law on the financing of municipalities and the money of which citizens and citizens are financed projects in some small, fragmented municipalities that afford such large infrastructure projects, which are likely to be difficult to make full use of at the same rate of population growth. Nor do I believe that the quality of life on the periphery is worse. I believe that the standard is lower if measured by financial means and the quality of life is probably not. Attention should also be paid here to all provisions which positively discriminate against those who do not study at the place of residence. It is also important to know that not all students who have a permanent residence in the place of their study are really at home with their parents. Study time is a time, not just education, but also a time of self-reliance, financial, social and some other. And the current legislation does not provide for that. He doesn't know who actually lives with his parents, who doesn't, who just applies, I don't know, relatives in Prekmurje, in Bovsk, Illyrian Bistrica, or Metlika, but he actually lives with his parents at the place of his study. There are many shortcomings here, and as I said in the presentation of the Group's opinion, even if certain provisions of this law are abused, we still do not think that the scholarship is too much. As it is said, the solution is too simple to offer. I'm not quite sure she's fair to everyone she's supposed to be. I hope that the year or any month more, as long as it is necessary to wait for good and fair and systematic regulation of this area, will not be too much for the representatives of the student organisation, neither for the opposition, nor for the position, nor for the recipients of the scholarships, which may be for this school year without a scholarship. If the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs claims that there is no better law in the current situation, I believe him. At the same time, I am sure that this change that we are adopting today will make the law on scholarship much better than it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u251	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u252	Thank you very much. I note that there is now a two-level debate. Some debate purely ideologically politically. We know what this means, that there are a lot of interesting premiums here and a lot of irrational ones. And others are strictly rational. That's how I understood Dr. Svetlik's argument. At the same time, I find that no one is paying attention to her now. They're just over this argument they wanted, and they could hear it if they wanted to. I would like to answer myself that those who are not exactly calling for moralism, and who are not supporting their ideas, are faced with questions whether we will even be able to look students and students in the eye. Let me say that I have been alone for several years in Parliament, that I have had many meetings with students, that I have sometimes supported their interests, that I never have, and that is why we have not looked past our eyes when we met either on the road or anywhere else. We must have understood each other rationally. Let me say that those who explain in public where they put their money, and even individually, are probably counting on something. I am sure that there is not a Member and a Member who is not ever a benefactor, but none of us speaks to anyone by name or by profession or by study. We didn't say that it didn't make our debtor feel that we didn't have to talk him out of it so he wouldn't forget when he went to the election, who he owed. Whoever's a benefactor, be a benefactor, anonymous. When he gives Unicef to African children who he does not know, this goodness will be significantly greater than when he gives to a neighbor whose vote in the elections he counts on. And here we are in Parliament to think rationally, to decide, just as we think it is best, and not to perform as some kind of magazine where we would choose the most popular MP.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u253	Mrs Andreja Črnak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! You mentioned that until 2007, we had no system law to regulate the scholarship. But it's a miracle. The scholarship was more than today. I do not object to the need to adopt a system law in 2007, but I object to the fact that it was not possible to predict that the number of scholarships would decrease if we maintained the same price and started to include new social transfers in the base, in particular the child allowance, which in those poorest means as much as 50% of the minimum income. The result is clear, so there are fewer scholarships. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has taken a very quick approach to amending this law, realizing that it is only possible to bring the amendment forward with the next school year. And as has been said, the number of scholarships will automatically increase by 5,000 because of the censorship, and the rest will be the result of living in more acute living conditions, the number of scholarships will increase by 7 to 8 thousand. The Ministry predicts a new system change to the whole law, where, in fact, it will build more on so-called systemic measures or on development scholarships, notably human resources scholarships, social scholarships or state scholarships, which are mainly social remedies, and social assistance, which you do not want, must be compared with other social assistance. And if we don't see it as part of some whole, we are causing new forms of discrimination. And that's what the minister told you exactly what that means. Remember that this year a new law on social transfers, or a single entry point, has also been announced, which will further place all recipients of social assistance in the same position and try to ensure a system of distribution at the expense of your requirements more justly. The scholarships are part of a comprehensive social policy and we allow the Ministry to save the demagogos' reasons for something else with the arguments presented to us today and above all the professional arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u255	Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Chairman. It's a nice greeting to the coworkers and the coworkers! In the debate so far, we have heard several arguments and many indications. And I'm sure we could continue with the readings for a little while, at least, to spend all the time we have at our disposal. We could go back on the responsibility for the situation in this company, in a public company, in that public company, and we could start with Luka Koper, continue with the company with state ownership, with Inter-Europe, and get to Hit and so on. We probably won't get too far with the obvious when we talk about solutions. That is why I propose that we leave the obvious because we can play ping-pong elsewhere and we don't have to go to the National Assembly and try to find a solution. What solutions? If we compare the previous and current system, the system introduced by this amendment of the law is clear that we will increase the number of scholarships. We're going to increase them by at least 7, maybe even 8,000. That's a fact. The fact is also that if we adopt the amendment that has been tabled, we will increase this number later. I support such a change. Above all, I support, in addition to making good changes to the real change, because I want a real law. And no matter what I'm aware of, and here I can say it in the face of any beneficiary of these scholarships, even students, regardless of whether I realize that by rejecting this amendment, the scholarship will be less, I know that at this point it is the only real solution. I also know that this is not the final solution and that steps will be taken in a short time and that there will be more of these scholarships in the coming year. I'm a social democrat. And if I am not aware of the importance of encouraging young people to be educated, then I do not deserve such valuable definitions. I was a student myself until recently, and now I teach as an assistant at Primorska University. I am aware of all the problems, especially because I have studied outside Slovenia for some time and have not received scholarships. However, I am also aware that, when I am sitting here in the National Assembly, I must also be responsible for the functioning of the whole country, for the operation of all the finances and for real systemic solutions. Therefore, I thank the Minister for preparing such a real system solution and counting that we will see a step forward in a short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u257	Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u258	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister and to all present in the Chamber. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we place great emphasis and importance on knowledge or knowledge-based society. The fact that we are not only on a declaration level is also evidenced by the fact already mentioned by colleague Friday that each of us is a student or a student. And that's exactly what I would start to discuss, because this fact has already wished for some evil comments, and this fact would add to the fact that we don't have direct contacts with our fellow students, they're through a central organization and they're not in our constituency, so they won't be able to vote for us. However, I am so aware that my fellow student is in severe social distress and this financial assistance comes to him very well and does not wonder what the political background is. We are also aware that the law that was passed at the time of the government of Janez Janša, that a correction will be needed after what year. Because you cannot apply the law in the preparation phase to 80,000 and more individual fates and individual cases appear only after the law is implemented, so in the first year there is often a need for complementary acts. And in this light, it also shows support for the law prepared by the present government. I would just like to ask my colleagues and colleagues to support our amendment, which was created in cooperation with the Student Organisation of Slovenia, by means of an organisation that is still concerned about the subject that we are discussing today. Each new thousand scholarships would fill a gap in an area where there is more demand than offers. Therefore, I cannot believe that even this assumption takes money in the budget's balance sheet. Although it is not a matter of much money to compare it with some other assumptions. I think the government could easily find one million or two more to fill this gap or this lack of funds and satisfy itself with scholarships as many students as possible. I think that some colleagues have already debated today that in the past there have been a lot of mistakes in directing students when sociology has been over-populated and nature has been lagging behind. It is in nature that we expect the potentials that will come from these areas to work so that they can take Slovenia to new challenges. Of course, there must therefore be an appropriate research atmosphere in companies, listening to the knowledge of young people, employment for indefinite working hours as soon as possible and integration into research projects as possible. Only in this way will we be able to meet the challenges of globalisation, and in this way we will overcome the current economic crisis. The production will benefit those companies that will go to market with new products, with new technologies, with new answers to the questions posed by modern society. For this we need a sufficient number of highly educated people who must have the opportunity to apply their knowledge without being pushed into one corner and are the happiest in that factory to rest. I also agreed with the Minister in one item when he said that there would be a need to develop instruments that would send as many applicants to the so-called human resources scholarships and that would be a burden on state scholarships. The Human Resources Scholarship also means, in some respects, a kind of guaranteed job or at least a half-assured job or a student is already involved in the production of the process at the time of study and is familiar with the factory or employer in which he is to be employed in the future. To support the law and the amendment, I also have experience in the field, because I know quite a few cases when they lost Zois' scholarship for hair, and according to changed or corrected criteria, there is a good chance of getting her back. This is from the area of Zois scholarships, there are, of course, no need to stress, the best students, because strict criteria to obtain this scholarship ensure this. The position of the studying youth should be facilitated as much as possible. But I don't like it in some of our debates when those who jumped out of pay almost nothing for three to five times when they say they can't afford one of the students' scholarships. Every excuse like that is what they say at home on farmers that a dog brought on its tail. So they're not worth anything. I think everyone in this house, in this building, is capable of a student's scholarship and from words to action. Those who already have a social status on behalf of their party and so on could wear a flag in these areas. We have colleagues who are still working part-time in their old jobs, and we could find a lot of the difference between the mayoral salary and the parliamentary salary there too, some change in absolute terms, because its receipt is large to direct one small scholarship out of this difference to someone who needs it. But I would also warn you that a generational flaw is coming. In the coming years, up to 6,000 fewer new students are expected. At least that's how I was tracked down or alerted to a high school in S.H.I.E.L.D. when the principal says there are up to 6,000 less students in the student field. So there can be no more students in this logic. This is precisely why resources must be found in this generation of manoeuvring, ways to provide the largest possible number of eligible applicants, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u259	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u260	Dear Members and Members! I will not repeat what I said before, but I am obliged to have some answers directly addressed to me in the debate. First, the Member, Mr Friend, asked if we had enough money for scholarships. For the law in force and for the proposal we make, we have enough money. Of course, we need to be a little careful, and that is why we are responsible, because the situation, as I mentioned earlier, is forcing or giving access to state grants in a crisis situation an ever-increasing number of beneficiaries. In December 2007, the recipients were 34,000 under this State Grant Act and 34,000 in December 2008 and 38,000 in February 2009, as previously said. This is an effect that needs to be seen. In a very short time, it has grown by 4,000 and we must also be prepared for this situation. As regards the exposure or emphasis on the participation of students and student organisations, this proposal before you is the product of an intense debate in the working groups, as well as in the world for student issues. We have not reached the full conclusion of the proposal, but we have gone in the direction of students' wishes and proposals, as far as we have estimated that this is the most possible moment. The new law will be ready this year, once again. Here we will raise such a question of criteria as well as the issue of the level of scholarships. The State grant may be relatively low for the current situation and living costs. We are waiting for an estimate of the cost of living of individual categories of the population. We look forward to this assessment in order to assess and regulate all social transfers on this basis. As for the relationship between the centre-periphery, which has been exposed, let me give you interesting information possible for you to receive from the Pomur region much more scholarships than from Ljubljana. This is in line with what we want to support those regions that are weaker, where the need for scholarships through state scholarships is greater. I also have to add that this solution in the current law goes against distant students who are away from the place of the study and that the scholarship also has an appropriate allowance on the basis of how many kilometres someone has from the place where he is studying. These issues are already regulated in this law, but it is also a fundamental principle question if we are already talking about social scholarships, whether someone is poorer if he lives in Ljubljana, if he is poor, than if he lives anywhere on the periphery. I think it must be seriously asked that if we have the same criteria, then the poor and those lacking should not be treated differently if they live in different parts of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u261	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u262	I must say that I cannot support this amendment, because of all that I have read in the bill, in the explanation of the bill and what I have heard to tell the minister, who I think, without praising him, but this is an explanation of the proposal that I think all ministers can best explain the problems and advantages of certain legislation. I don't know the Lord of Light at all from before, so I can only say that I am extremely pleased when I listen to his explanations, because I really understand what this is about. That's the first thing that makes me think that his argument can't be contradicted. Secondly, what I would say is very important that we have heard several times not only from the Minister but also from some Members that negotiations, talks, agreements with the Student Organisation of Slovenia are intense and permanent. That this is not the moment and that it is not only the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, but also the Ministry of Higher Education, and that we are ready to have an open conversation with the Student Organisation in the coalition groups as we were in the opposition. I would like to remind you that I was a member of the Higher Education Committee, and I have witnessed the incredible mistrust that I am not saying a relationship that has already confined itself to hatred of the Student Organisation when it comes to issues of the Higher Education Act when it comes to the question of a resolution on the national programme for the development of higher education, science and research. Remember what struggles they were and how you were under-appreciated and repulsive in the then coalition to students from the Student Organization, while I was not a member of the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee, so that I did not witness the debates with the Student Organisation on this committee at the time, but after the magnetogram of the debate in the second reading of the Fellowship Act, I understood that at least two of the discussers here were keenly opposed to the proposals of the Student Organisation, despite the fact that the Student Organization, interestingly, was able to calculate that the scholarships would not be more, but less, at the time, and that in every matter that they commented on, from the scholarship to the student diet, to the law on higher education, to the resolution that I mentioned earlier, they would always come with solid, weighty and qualitative arguments. That they never bluffed that they never showed ignorance, incompetence, arrogance or anything like that, what we hear today or yesterday in particular, we listened for a hundred and fifty times, how we, in the coalition, suddenly became incompetent, ignorant, "first class butts" and so on. Students were never stupid or ignorant, and they had information that, interestingly enough, the then coalition did not have at all. And not because they weren't available, but because she couldn't get to them, while the students could get to them. I must say that I have also made it very clear once that I am proud that I am a citizen of the country in which students are, for the first time, so capable, and, secondly, as well organised as our students. And I'm proud of them today. And I'm also proud that they tried to go through the side door and increase the grant limit. Right, that's what they have to do if they're dynamic, if they're organized, they should try where they can. This time it will not work, but in the next stages, when they negotiate with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, they will certainly find a way and a way to make sure that as many students and students as possible, because this is not just about students, they will make it possible to live decent lives with the income they can afford from the family budget plus the scholarship they will receive and, of course, the other supplements they belong to according to their current status. I think this amendment is unnecessary. This amendment is a positive public attitude towards a group of people who, in the past term, have made a hole in the water and shot one big goat. Now, of course, this needs to be fixed. And we are fixing this together with the government and we will continue to fix it, because everything can't be done in one step. Let me put it this way again. I'm not going to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u263	Thank you. I am reopening my application for debate because I see a raise in my hands. Mr. Kres, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u264	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen of the house! We certainly support the amendment in the Slovenian People's Party, but of course we are not against the law. We'll also support the law if the amendment doesn't go through. But when I heard how capable students we have in this country, they have someone to learn from. I say that we are not so bad in our country and that we know how to handle things, but sometimes we are a little short of communication. But good. All this is life. I think that we will lead everything in the right direction, and, of course, as the predecessor said, all of this is a living thing, all of this also needs to be adapted and brought to the point that students will be satisfied with their education and that they will be even more capable than they are, and that we will continue this successful path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u265	Thank you. Mr. Rozej has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u266	Thank you very much, Chairman. In today's debate, some people - one debated in vain, in my opinion, have also dealt with matters relating to social status, although the people we are discussing here today, so it seems worth it, although there may be some thought that the time and place in which I am doing this is inappropriate to say that the obvious that you, Mr. Zicherl, have made to my social situation may seem right to you, but it is completely depressed. But he's true as much as I, what do I know, to anyone else here, maybe - I'm forgiving the MEP of Jeremiah, saying how that she only has one child, and I have two. One thing in this life you just have to believe is that there are different circumstances that you cannot react to in such a general way. And speaking of which, I would like to say that if you don't believe in the good intentions of this and the reality of what I said, it also seems to me that you're applauding me for my birthday, just like everyone in the National Assembly. I think it's really hypocritical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u267	You were appointed. If you'll excuse me, you'd better sign up for the next round. Mrs. Jeraj, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u268	Thank you. We will support the marriage because it improves the situation. We will also support our amendment and the law, even though you will not vote for our amendment, because, as we say, it improves the situation. The Minister mentioned earlier that he had no problems with the applicant. I'm sure you don't, but you're not the one who's voting. My colleagues are voting here, which obviously has a problem with that. You said you couldn't make the law that fast or that it wasn't possible to make the law that fast and that it was an emergency. I would suggest that you listen to your fellow ministers and ministers, who have very innovative ideas, for which all has to be carried out quickly and urgently. We make laws in the night, amazing. We will give you time to prepare, in peace and professionally and well, changes to the law. I mentioned that we should all do more together on human resources scholarships because human resources scholarships actually mean a link between knowledge and the economy. Not only that, they can also mean jobs for these young people, and this is most important. When the law was being prepared, and at the time of adoption, we believed that we would succeed in this country with a landscape project, that we would retain an educated staff in the regions so that they would not remain at university centres, but would return to their home environment and contribute and mediate that knowledge they had acquired. And apparently it's nothing, but then the 11% law went up the state scholarship for 22% of the highest supplement, 21% of the education allowance. Surely, though, we did not pay enough attention when we included some other benefits in the grant. We also adopted many amendments at the time of the adoption of the law, and this may have led to the fact that the law was difficult to enforce or unconsistence in certain places. But with each novelty, it will be improved and improved in areas where necessary. A colleague who is the president of the Labour Committee, the family, mentioned how they want to improve and centrally regulate the benefits. We have already done something about it, even though our colleagues in DeSUS tell us that many have been deprived of it. Indeed, with the amendment of the Law on Social Transfers, pensioners have been deprived of their pension in the form of a protective allowance. For all others, the change was positive and we set up certain transfers, which we previously assigned and coordinated, at a single starting point and in a transparent manner, some twice a year, once a year. The system has established that transfers resulting from work rights are aligned with wage growth and life-related transfers to higher living costs. So the government will certainly have easier work to do, because there are some starting points and some things already in the same position as when we took it. And I believe that change in this direction will happen, which is certainly right. On the committee, we asked the Secretary of State what it means to accept our amendment, a slightly higher censorship. And she said it meant 500,000 euros in 2009. And maybe for comparison, it's like five damages that they're going to get erased, and this probably shouldn't be such a difficult problem for this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u269	Thank you. Mr. Croat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u270	Thank you very much again for your word. The debate developed precisely in the direction I hoped it would not. So throwing from one side to the other, it's absolutely not productive. I hope that you have understood in my first implementation that there will be no dilemma, we absolutely support changes to the law, because we believe that after two years this law now needs to be changed. And there's no dilemma in that. It seems to me a waste of time to devote it to debates concerning the argument or objection to what has been said on the other hand. So there's a need for change. Clearly, Mr Minister, who also seems to be able to explain matters, has made it clear that it will not be possible that the amendment will not be adopted, that what you have proposed or what students have proposed will not be summarized or accepted. Earlier, one of the colleagues said how students always came with arguments that she was proud of them and that she was "generally and oh", and believe me, they came before us with arguments and we feel the same way, so we think that there would be those, I don't know, 500,000 euros that we talked about in the budget anywhere. Given that the balance is about to be rebalanced. And that would be easy. So, I'd like to draw your attention to another matter. We Members and Members are the ones who adopt legislation, not the Ministry. If we so choose to increase censorship as proposed by the student organisation, then we will vote and the ministry will certainly find money or funds for this increase. Last but not least, you yourself have already passed the laws that have been tabled by you, without the assistance of the Ministry, several times in this mandate, and the funds have been found. It would be the same here. Believe me, I now have four years of experience in my previous parliamentary appeal, and I must say, if something is to be done, then that is also possible. Let me also say that the change in the law that is necessary, which I have already talked about, is only about the fact that it is clear that laws are changing, that relations are changing. This is very similar to today, when, after six months or after two good months, we have already adopted a change of law on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and we have already dealt with these things here on the plenary. So, in fact, the law was made with good intentions at the time, and it has now proved necessary. And there's nothing wrong with that. However, if this supplement is accepted, I am sure that the Ministry will find the resources it needs to raise the price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u271	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u272	Thank you very much. I didn't think it would be necessary, but I have to say it again. In this amendment, however, as we have explained in the introduction, money is not as important as the key three: to break the relationship between social transfers, to which the scholarship belongs, that the problem of positive discrimination, which we cannot then enforce if we introduce this censorship as proposed, and that one of the purposes of the law is to open up more access to social scholarships at the expense of the staff. And we will, as we say, have to deal with this more thoroughly in the future if we are to want that purpose to be achieved. At the same time, I think that the basic objective has been achieved because we will increase the number of state scholarships. Once again, in these new solutions that we are preparing, I think we still have a valid agreement with the Student Organisation to prepare them together, just as we are very intensive about this amendment to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u273	Thank you. Because it's still an interest I'm opening a new round of debate. Anyone who wishes to discuss the second article and the amendment to this Article should apply. Mr. Levanic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u274	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I will not support this amendment, not because it has been submitted and proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, but because I have no problem supporting any other party's amendment, I will not support it because we are not ending the chapter at this point because we are just starting a step, and this is to join the new scholarship law, which will, of course, fully regulate this area. I agree here with some of the opposition, Mr Hrvat, when you say that there are some points on which we can smoke, and this is that this law is a safe step forward, that it improves some of the segments that have been largely flawed within the existing law on scholarships and that we can see with common arguments that we have increased the censorship of access to new scholarships, that there will be more students and students eligible for new scholarships. It is true, however, that this law, too, contains a census of seventy, particularly with regard to positive discrimination, and that is why a relationship is maintained. We also agree that this is not an ideal situation, that a new system should be created together in dialogue with the Student Organisation and all those involved in the scholarship policy, which, of course, will regulate the scholarship policy differently. At this point, we are all aware that we do not have a coherent scholarship fund, that the scholarships are too small, that this is also linked to the fact that students in fact have to do some other work while studying, because the scholarship itself does not allow only study and so on. This is an abundance of other issues, including the student population, not to mention young people in general. However, we must also acknowledge that the Ministry of Labour has taken a step forward and, of course, this is where all the praise is, especially because it has accepted the commitment to start working on a new law this year. This needs to be made clear and supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u275	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u276	I'm sorry. I only forgot earlier when I was talking, to point out that the report contained the wrong information in the Committee's report, which states that the funds were reduced to the state grants amounting to EUR 6.8. In 2008, this year they were reduced by the 2009 rebalancing. Since this is an official document, this must be corrected.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u277	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u278	Thank you for your word. Since I've asked for a replica, I'll use it first, and then maybe another sentence or two. In the debate, I pointed out that a number of people who were elected to the National Assembly had made a major improvement, on the financial side of course, at least once, twice, but I did not name anyone by name. If anyone recognizes himself, then it means that I did not speak in the blank and in practice the sentence "If you step on the cat's tail, the pause and bounce" was displayed. Now around the amendment and all the proposals. We agree that a new law on scholarship is urgently needed if we prepare it as soon as possible, then by adopting this amendment we can only fill the gap to a better, more systematic arrangement of the scheme of scholarships. And in particular the referrals of students in the direction of the study, those directions of the study, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] where they have a large deficit in which industry, production, the economy are literally called upon and invited to a large extent. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u279	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly today in the framework of the vote in half an hour, which is at 16.05. I hereby terminate this agenda item, which we will continue at 4.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u280	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please calm down and take your seats. We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting device, which means that an orange light must burn on the right hand side of the card. The voting devices seem to be working. Therefore, we can move on to the continuation of the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Companies. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We first decide on the amendment of Article 7 of the Resais Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 9 and we are deciding on the amendment of the Zares Group to Article 9. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 5. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the drafter of the law if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Mr. Minister, would you like to proceed with the third hearing at the same meeting?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u281	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u282	Thank you. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the drafter proposes that the State Assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The State Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Tuesday, 26. 5. 2009, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to a follow-up to the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Restrictions on Competition. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. First, we move on to Article 3 to decide on the amendment of the DeSUS, LDS, SD and Res to Article 3. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of DeSUS, LDS, SD and Res to Article 18. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted two amendments, namely Articles 3 and 18 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. [[No, no, ……]] I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the bill inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 10th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Working with Asbestos. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. First, we decide on the amendment of Article 12 of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 14. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The assembly will hold its third reading of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. The draft law for the third hearing will be prepared by the services of the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 11th item of the agenda - considering the proposal for a law amending the Law on partial full-time subsidisation. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 12th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Scholarships. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mrs. Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u283	Thank you so much for saying that. In our Group of Members, we have said that we support the law. The law is being upgraded, i.e. the law adopted in 2007 and entered into force with the school year 2008/2009. Because we agreed at the time to analyze the consequences. Indeed, the result may not be the best, but 10,000 new scholarships, which were promised, have increased, according to the minister. I have already said that the law has also increased or increased the state scholarship, as well as the highest supplement on the income of the family, the education allowance. Which means that the scholarships rose at that time. So the novel brings a raise in censorship. With our amendment, we're still lifting this censorship. Because it turned out that the low entry price was the reason that many scholarships that could be awarded were not. The government has decided to increase the censorship slightly. We propose to raise it even more on the proposal of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. Let's say that the dilemma is only one. Whether we accept the Government's proposal, which will mean the poor 5,000 new scholarships or the proposal of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which would amount to 7-8 thousand new scholarships. Despite the fact that the Government, with the 2009 budget rebalancing in this item, has taken away EUR 6.8 million, the funds available at this time would also be sufficient to do so. So, the Secretary of State said we need 2.2 million for their marriage this year. If you accept our amendment, another 500,000 euros are needed, which should not be a problem. So I suggest you support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u284	Thank you. On behalf of the Member, I see two more hands, Mr Levanič and Friend. Is there anyone else on behalf of the House? No, no, no. Mr. Levanic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u285	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. We will not support the proposed amendment in the Group of Social Democrats. In particular because we have not completed this chapter of the regulation of the scholarship policy here today in the National Assembly, but we have received a clear assurance from the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons that a new law will be drawn up this year, which will fully regulate the scholarship policy. In addition, we are convinced that this moment we are getting a very good law on scholarship, the only law in the history of Slovenia that has a really more favourable censorship. The censorship increases from a minimum of 65 to 68, including 70% of the minimum wage, which means that positive discrimination is maintained. In Slovenia we will get 5,000 new scholarships, which is certain, depending on the time we are in, very positive. And we believe that such steps will begin to solve the problem in this area as well. As has already been said, we will not support the amendment, we will support the law as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u286	Thank you. Mr. Friend, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u287	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues. As has already been said, if we do not accept this amendment, we will only bring the situation to 2005. 17,000 applicants are for scholarships we couldn't give them scholarships. 6 million 800 we left unused money in the budget, and this government took it out of this "portfolio", and, of course, committed it for other purposes. Why this money remained, simply - because the censorship was the same as it was and, of course, the applicants, even if they wrote the application, were not entitled to it. So the blame is on the left and on the right. Left caused a new guilt, right old. Students, of course, demand that the injustice be rectified by this amendment, which is actually theirs. And I would say, why don't we cut these 17,000 scholarships by 7,000. Why only for five if we know it's possible to do that. We had the money, but we rerouted it somewhere else. Well, I don't see why we wouldn't support this amendment. It's very simple. It's the first law we've ever put into business with, not on a Sunday. In fact, knowledge is a big deal. So far, we have subsidized part-time or things that are not productive, and this is something that can bring a powerful multi-application factor. And I would like to ask that we are so reasonable and to confirm this amendment and thus allow 7,000 more scholarships instead of 5,000. There's still going to be a difference of 10. And, of course, more knowledge in this society, if the Slovenian society is already knowledge-based.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u288	Thank you. First, I would ask you to calm down a little bit so that the speaker can speak calmly. I'm opening an application to explain my own name, because I've seen quite a few wishes for this explanation. Check-in is on. Mr. Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u289	Mr. President-in-Office. Colleagues and colleagues. I will gladly support this amendment because I am sure that the Student Organisation of Slovenia has properly proposed and the Student Organisation of Slovenia is also the one who knows this problem well. I'll do it again. Under the mandate of Janez Janša, a system law on scholarship was adopted. For 15 years or 16 years, this law was to be observed. When something has also been said by fellow Members here that injustice is on the left and on the right, I cannot understand it. The blame is indeed somewhere, but it is certainly on the left, which has reduced the budget on this stock by so much and so many millions of euros. I think it is imperative that this amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party should be accepted to bring this problem to the point where those who urgently need these scholarships will be satisfied. This country urgently needs knowledge. As we also note in this socio-economic crisis, it is extremely important if we had many who know much. I claim that in Slovenia we have many of these, but still too little, so that we can overcome this economic situation more easily and more qualitatively. Once again, I would suggest to my colleagues that we do not negotiate with each other here, but that we find a common solution. The common solution is to accept this amendment and provide students with what is theirs in this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u290	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u291	Thank you for your word. I too intend to support the amendment, because during today's debate it has proved that, in the general sense of the state budget, it is not such a big asset. The amendments adopted will ease the scholarship crisis, so more people could get a scholarship. Above all, I see that the adoption of this amendment would not cause any major disruption in the financial flows in the budget and so on, as a new system law has already been announced. If we adopt a new system law by the end of the year or by the end of the next budget period, this amendment will apply only one financial year, because we would then systematically regulate some new law on scholarships. We are aware that our marriage was not perfect, or the law of the previous government, because 16 years of accumulation of problems, of course, cannot be solved by a single cut alone. At that time, we adopted a law that we knew would need to be corrected in the near future. The adoption of the amendment would facilitate the social distress of some and by systemic resolution in the new law, which would also include the conclusion of this transitional period, but might come one step higher or one level higher to resolve the financial distress of the study population. We are committed to this, because the only knowledge, the new knowledge of the young generation, can make a significant contribution to the realization of Slovenia in the world and the exit from the crisis. So, I support the amendment and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u292	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The obvious thing is that I will support the amendment. Any smart person would support him, and anyone who wants to develop their own country would support him. Some young people who may have barely graduated from school do not understand that other students also need a scholarship to make it easier for them to study more. The difference is 2,000 scholarships, and I think it's just bullshit for students not to be able to do that a little bit. Already, if we reprogramme the loans that the current coalition intends to give to some tycoons again, we could grant not an additional 2,000, but an additional 20,000 students. But you're not going to do that, and you're going to make excuses for a marriage that you're supposed to adopt and that's going to save everything. But why don't you let him get rid of at least another 2,000 students now, this moment this year? I think that makes sense and good. And if we swear in our country to develop, to know, yes, then we do something to have knowledge. Since 1992, the Slovenian school system has deliberately destroyed knowledge, deliberately went to the lowest common denominator, and it is no wonder that our universities have fallen out of all registers as many important universities in the world. But now we want to take something else and give it even less, please. A little clever, but support this amendment as I will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u294	Thank you. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u295	I understand this amendment so that several thousand students will have more opportunities to study. I recall once again the Spring Day of the European Union, where the emphasis was on knowledge, the greatest value. In Parliament, we already have a number of these messages on e-mail "Knowledge of Harvest". I mean, we all agree on how important knowledge is and how valuable, I stress, is knowledge. So if it's worth it, let's prove it's worth it. Let's invest in it, let's invest in young people as much as possible, the knowledge that is this country, the Republic of Slovenia, the favorite that we like to raise, let's make this even more possible. Let's accept, colleagues and colleagues, this amendment. Once again, my colleagues have already said, it's two thousand or three or four, even better for seven thousand new students to help them with their scholarship. The scholarship won't keep them alive for the rest of their lives, but let's help them work harder, give them that chance. Look, the elections are 2012, it's not populism, if we want the knowledge that reaps what we read, we do something for it. Let's do it! And by adopting this amendment, at least two thousand new students will be able to help with the scholarship, at least.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u296	Thank you. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u297	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Students and students. I've already said in my debate that I will support the amendment. The fact is that the only knowledge and education will lead Slovenia along the path of further development and better life and the standards of our citizens and citizens. Do not change today at this amendment when we talk about some change, about some two million euros at the annual level, as if any of the Members had said today, but I cannot invite a colleague to the parliamentary table for one coffee. That's how much this is actually compared to the state budget. It is the demagogies of those who, of course, could study with abundance, not only money, but also other material possibilities and conditions. Of course, some of us were significantly different, but under different conditions we finished colleges, not in eight or twelve or sixteen years, but in the prescribed time frame, as it was. In fact, at the time of the adoption of the Grant Act, the previous government had good intentions and therefore also provided sufficient money in the 2009 budget. It turned out that the law was not the most appropriate one, so if we had a coalition today, of course, we would also fix it, so that, I believe, we would upgrade it with financial work, but not by taking away what was already in the 2009 budget. By doing so, if we accept this amendment, you will not need a rebalancing for 2009 but only the starting point of the 2010 budget you will prepare. However, this will be a good point for the law that the minister announced today, which he intends to rework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u298	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u299	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honor! I support this amendment, I will vote for it, as I support the basic law, because it allows for more scholarships. The money for this increase was prepared under the previous government of John Janša, which proves that the government was building on development and knowledge. It is therefore incomprehensible that a rebalancing on your part has been prepared, where you have reduced the grant rate by 6.8 million. What we are voting on today will mean an increase of 2.5 million this year. Our amendment, however, means an increase of Euro500,000. That's saying, you've cut significantly less than it would have meant. Besides, this amendment of ours is somewhere within the scope of possibility. We've already talked about this today, as far as possible. This is possible and we therefore propose such an amendment. 500,000 means two to three thousand more scholarships. €500,000 is just as much as five deleted. If it is necessary to decide on development and knowledge, I will vote in favour of scholarships, for an amendment that increases two to three thousand scholarships more, not for the deleted ones for which you so support. It's about knowledge and development and our future. I'll vote for the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u300	Thank you. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u301	I hope that I did not misinterpret it, perhaps even between these students and students, and therefore I think that this amendment must also be rejected because of such a politicized, demagogic, misleading way of defending it. But I'll say one more thing. Not only do we need knowledge throughout the country, but we need it especially in the National Assembly. Knowledge and ability to accept knowledge and understanding of what people who have expertly prepared changes to this law, which was poorly prepared in 2007, when the then Government did not listen to the arguments of the student organisation. Today, after an interim agreement, we have come up with such a change that together, with the exception of a basic increase, 5,000 scholarships will come due to the special characteristics of individual students, if I may say so, single families, disabled people and so on, will increase by an additional 2,000 to 3,000 scholarships. This is a reasonable burden for the budget this year. The following year, when a new law is already adopted in full agreement with the Student Organisation, where the Student Organisation is likely to have to take a step back in its expectations and demands, we will be waiting for a law that will satisfy all parties. We know that the grant funds are needed, but that the scholarship system needs to be regulated so that it is transparent and that the scholarships are given to those who really need them. Just by the way. One of the amendments to this law is that distance from the city of study is also one of the criteria for determining the level of the scholarship. You opposed it at the time, and you didn't want to include it in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u302	Thank you. Mr. Franzege.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u303	Respected and respected! I estimate that this law corrects the mistakes of the law adopted in 2007. It is true, however, that in this debate, what you might call bidding numbers should be 65%, 68% or even 100% of the minimum wage. We are here on a slippery populist ground and I propose that we remain sober in this debate. It is a very instructive calculation given to all of us by the Slovenian Student Organization, which notes that the number of students and the number of scholarships are in great proportion. The movement of the number of students increases, scholarships remain for years at the same level. If we added a review from 1991 on, we would see even greater leaps in this. Personally, I think that the grant law itself has been an important shift in the regulation of the scholarship policy in Slovenia, and the fact is that we need a new law that needs to remedy a number of shortcomings and pursues one goal - to allow a scholarship in this country to all those who need it to study, who have the will to know that they get it and can then compete successfully in the labour market. That is why I will not support this amendment, in order to come up with smart solutions with the system law and partnership with the Student Organisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u304	Thank you. Mrs. Black Nebula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u305	Thank you very much. I'm always saddened when I see that we use demagogism to kill professional arguments. Mr Minister explained very precisely why the proposal before us in the form of an amendment cannot be supported. Because the state grant is a social category, because it would undermine the relationship between social transfers and the ratio to minimum wage. Those are the main arguments! Not money, not that it opposes the proposal coming from the opposite side, but that the scholarship policy must be regulated systematically. Yeah. All of us are united in the fact that we want more scholarships and we need to provide them for the development of our society. However, the development category is mainly staff scholarships and these will be subject to consideration in the amendment of the whole law, which has already been announced, and therefore I cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u306	Thank you. Since there is still an interest in the explanation of vote, I am reopening the possibility of entering an explanation of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Luka Yuri, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u307	Thank you very much. The basis for my vote against this amendment is already a debate that took place hours ago and the conclusion that instead of readings or theatre, we must seek solutions. And the conclusion that if the numbers proposed by the Government were not like that, but would have been 70, there would have been those who would have proposed 72. If they were 72, there would be those who would suggest 74 and so on. The numbers would go up, they'd go up, they'd lose the goal that's ahead of us, and we'd achieve it -- that's a significant increase in the number of scholarships and it's only a political search for votes and public support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u308	Thank you. Mr. Tiny. Mr. Barovich, you've already explained the voice in the previous pen.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u309	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is always more evident that spears break on the shoulders of young people. It is unacceptable not to listen to young people who have prepared the amendment. But they prepared it because only they know why they are asking for an increase in the number of scholarships. It is unacceptable that those who consider themselves to be social do not even have a name as an SD and do not support young people. You're always making excuses for a new marriage, that's unacceptable. You had money and reassigned it, and that's what I already said you didn't intend to extend to a larger number of scholarships and didn't apologize. We like to say, 'There is a future for young people', it is, but surely it is necessary for me to help those who can decide. With nice words and promises, students will not make it easy for them to study.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u310	Thank you. Mr. Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u311	Thank you for your word. I will certainly support this amendment, because the necessity of this amendment is to build an upgrade to the existing law. Knowledge is essential. Why don't we take an example in Ireland? Believe me, Ireland has invested a lot of money in knowledge and has a very good frame. Why are we afraid of a good frame? The scholarship is not just election stimulation as some say, the scholarship is an investment in knowledge, knowledge for our future, for the future of our craftsmen. This is a success and we must invest in it, so I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u312	Thank you. Mr. Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Of course I'll support the amendment. I will also support the bill, but now that I have listened to these last explanations, I must say that now I really cannot believe that you do not want to hear the students' appeal when they actually ask you to accept this amendment. Interestingly, in the adoption of the system law, there was a great deal of talk about how the then coalition did not listen to the students, not listening to them, not listening to them, and so on. So, full of mouths for those who are doing the same thing now, so they don't listen to students and they don't want to help them raise this censorship a little bit. I don't believe I'm gonna convince you to vote differently because it's obviously a serious discipline. But be aware of something. This is not the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, this is the amendment of the Student Organisation, which the Slovenian Democratic Party actually wanted to table. And I find it unacceptable to ignore it that way. It is 500,000 euros that the ministry will certainly find. It is we who are Members who are enacting legislation. We are the ones who will determine and impose on the Ministry what it must do. That is why I propose that you support this amendment and, in the end, the law itself. I've told you what this is all about before. It's a cosmetic matter of the law. It's about 3,000 new scholarships and it's about treating students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u314	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u315	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The Minister gave the main point of reference that everyone who has concerns should vote in favour of this amendment. He said that with rising poverty, there would probably be more applicants for scholarships. So, if you've taken 6 million euros, put them back where you've taken them and the money will be; support this amendment beforehand; for all that is enough. We won't even have to worry about where we get it from. Six million and eight hundred, back to where you took them. If I compare this with the overall activity of this National Assembly, we have an understanding of the deleted, we will give 4 billion euros for them, we have an understanding for the Gypsies or the Roma that no one will persecute. Jelka Strojanov gets 1,200 a month without work. We've got a bit of a freeze on our ears. For those who speculate and apply to the institution only once, and for the rest of their lives, they get support. We can give support to that, too. Speaking of theatre, Mr. Luke, it's not a theater, it's a circus if we accept it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u316	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u317	Thank you. I'll support the amendment. I'll also support the marriage. When the law was passed, we actually included in the law or in the fund to be taken into account when granting the scholarships some other benefits. However, we have raised, as I said before, state scholarships in the amount of the education allowance and everything else, but there has been some imbalance. Nevertheless, 4,000 more scholarships were awarded, said the minister. I find it difficult to understand my young colleagues who were perhaps students and students yesterday that they are among the most vocal opponents of our amendment. I agree, however, that we should all do more together on human resources scholarships. But human resources scholarships have been falling since 1990, when we had 45,000 human resources scholarships. And if the project that we envisioned, the landscape project, were to be implemented, regional human resources scholarships would also be brought to life differently than they are now, when something is missing, and we might already have a significantly better % of the human resources scholarships today. We all agree that this is the most important thing, because the human resources scholarship is not only a scholarship, but it also means employment. Above all, it means that young people remain in their environment and give their knowledge to their environment rather than remain in university centres. And you're telling us where our 10,000 scholarships are that we promised. You showed your attitude towards scholarships when you took 6.8 million euros on the grant line. The dilemma remains whether we have 5,000 new scholarships or 8,000.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u318	Thank you. Since I see interest in it, I'm opening up an application to explain my voice. Mr Grimes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u319	Thank you. I will certainly support the amendment and surely anyone who does not care how quickly our country develops will do the same and will gladly support such an amendment. But all others will show the big difference between what they say and what they do in practice. However, I must say that I am very pleased, at the same time, that in the ruling coalition, as the former honourable SD Member has said, there has been an awareness of how we would urgently need more knowledge in the National Assembly. For then it would not have happened to them that, even after the judgment of the court which declared them non-professional and warned them of their ignorance, when they argued for years and years that the issue of decisions with damages so-called "exterminated" had no connection, they could not have been in that situation at all. And look, EUR 55,000 per hand of one of the so-called "exploded" who once calculated would be enough to grant more than 10 students. More than 10 students, ladies and gentlemen, and if we had passed a constitutional law, if we had at least enough knowledge and listened to good suggestions, we could have saved up here, and we could have turned this money into scholarships, into investments, into knowledge. All the economy of modern times learns that it is the investment in knowledge that returns first and becomes the most profitable to the state that invests in knowledge.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u320	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, would you like a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u321	Very short-lived president. I believe you want to be patient, but I suggest you try to limit this speech to explanations of voice and not to debate and controversy. As you may have heard, we were even appointed from speakers from other benches, a direct controversy, and perhaps it would make sense to try to limit it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u322	Mr Yuri, few people stick only to explanations of vote, including Members of the Social Democrats. Mr. Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u323	Thank you for your word. I will not support the proposed amendment, as Mr Minister has explained several times why this would make no sense at this time. At the same time, he ensured that the government would do a lot to improve the situation of students, and despite the whole demagogies of the opposition talking about the deleted, about the Roma and similar things, such guidance cannot convince me. I also understand Mr Grimes that he advocates these things, because every week the opposition advocates a form of population, which I would probably need two or three budgets, although I am not clear on the other hand, as Mr Grims already has a scholarship from the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u324	Thank you. Mr. Levanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u325	Thank you so much for saying that. As I have already said on behalf of the Group of Members, I will not, on my own behalf, support the amendment, because today we are witnessing the extraordinary transfer of the Slovenian Democratic Party. When she had the chance to save her scholarship policy, when she promised tens of thousands of new scholarships, none of this happened. When she did one big "scropocalo" with the law, with the System Act on Scholarshiping, where seventeen thousand young applicants were left without a scholarship because the censor included a child's allowance, pension, maintenance and I don't know what else and a lot of young families you caused a lot of trouble. This government, with the minister in charge, has regulated a higher censorship in this law than it has ever been in Slovenia's history. We have already said that this is not an ideal law, but we want and we also get assurances from the minister that there will be a new law in preparation this year because, unlike you, we want to save the scholarship policy and we want to help young people. Above all, it is an important question because obviously we all want to listen to the students and help them and everything, but the question is, who is really ready to do what when they have the option? Certainly not you, dear gentlemen of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because today you have plenty of reasons and suggestions to settle. But when you had the chance, unfortunately, you didn't do it. Now with this law there will be more scholarships, that is a clear fact and that is what this government has done. And with the new law, we will try to deal with this even better with the student dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u326	Thank you. Since I see there's still a desire to explain my voice, I'm reopening my application. Mr. Urh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u327	Thank you for your word. Of course I won't support this amendment. But I will be happy to support the law that the Government has drawn up with the minister in charge. But there's something that bothers me here. In fact, the amendment's proposal says that this is a student amendment prepared by student organisations. If student organisations are given confidence to the proposer, they should take it out, otherwise they should find better candidates if this amendment is really good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u328	Thank you. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u329	Yes, young Mr. Levanic is right. The former government has done terrible things: it has introduced a free lunch in secondary schools, introduced a free kindergarten for another child, has substantially cost us the highways where we drive without stops, and has adopted a number of other terrible solutions that have led Slovenia, before you took over the mandate, to another city after the least indebted countries in the EU. In only half a year of your rule, Slovenia is difficult, but it is very fast being among the most indebted countries in the EU. What's this amendment that I'm going to support, of course? It's basically a fraction, it's less than cappuccino in the cafeteria of this National Assembly, as has been said today. It is essentially this, ladies and gentlemen, that those few cracks on Falcon, which can still fly, do not need to be corrected and this amendment is saved. And if there's anything in your pants, you'll press for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u330	Thank you. Because there is no more application, we are going to the vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 41. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Check-in is on. Mrs. Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u331	Thank you for your word. We will support the marriage because we know it brings some new scholarships, with our amendment we would still have a little more. And because everything is so worried that we are guilty of such censorship, so because we have included a whole lot of other transfers in our revenue, I don't know why the government didn't come with urgent changes to the Social Transfers Act or why it didn't include it in the Grant Act, if it's so clear to you that the only problem is that we've included some other benefits in the revenue. As we say, our parliamentary group will support the law, but of course we expect a very soon-to-be-quality law as we have never seen it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u332	Thank you. Mr. Levanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u333	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will be happy to support the Act on Scholarships, which allows for greater opportunities to obtain state scholarships mainly for students and students from socially more vulnerable families. There is a higher censorship, i.e. 65% for those candidates who are studying or studying at their place of residence, and up to 68% of the minimum wage per family member for those candidates who are studying or studying outside their place of residence. Prior to the adoption of the new Law, I must stress this: the scholarship was significantly lower and was only 60% and a maximum of 65% of the minimum wage per family member. A very important segment within this law is the category of candidates from single parent families, candidates with special needs. The price for applicants on their part will increase to 70% of the minimum wage per family member, which will once again increase the quota of scholarships, so that we can count on the adoption of this law to reach between 5,000 and 7,000 new scholarships. It is very important in this law to achieve the essential objectives proposed, namely to allow scholarships to train as many young people as possible from socially weak environments, to restore easier access to the grant to single-parents candidates, to promote the education of particularly talented people, and to promote education for careers that also enable employment in the long term. We want the new system-wide law announced by the Minister of Labour to come to order as soon as possible. It must be acknowledged that Slovenia, students and students are currently receiving a completely new law. The highest censorship so far, which means more scholarships and more access to education. Of course, it is important to make it very clear that this is not the case, especially as to the obvious who did something. The fact is that in the past, something bad has happened in this area, that there has now been an amendment to this mandate and that there is also a forecast that we will further upgrade the scholarship system. It must be said that none of us claimed that everything that the previous government had done was bad. These were the words of one of the Members, so that it should be assessed from your own eyes. We are just saying that the previous Law on Scholarship was bad, that which we are going to accept today is, I hope, much better and that it brings more scholarships and this is in some ways also the goal of all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u334	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u335	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the law for two reasons. In the first part of this law, in terms of the content of the exit law, which I consider to have been a qualitative shift in the implementation of the scholarship policy in Slovenia, and it is also necessary to recognise this to the past government, while the law has had many shortcomings in the context of the implementation of the law itself. The novelty of this law, which we are considering today, is being abolished. The most important substantive change is certainly an increase in the number of scholarships. Therefore, it should again be pointed out that the law brings a significant increase in the number of scholarships and brings them due to the increase in censorship, brings about 3 to 4 thousand new scholarships and that the law introduces one of the very important innovations, namely positive discrimination, which will allow children or students and students from single-parent families to be granted a scholarship to children with special needs, where censorship rises even above the 70 % threshold in the law. Of course, all those who come from the periphery know what it means to be away from the city of study and also this law and this novel brings increased censorship here with regard to those students and students who live in the city of study and here is also this quality brought by this law. It is therefore necessary to make it clear today, with the support of this law, that a quality move has been made through the adoption of the Law on Scholarshiping in the Past, that this novel builds on it and that this novel brings between 5,000 and 7,000 new scholarships, which will, of course, underpin young people's study opportunities. Above all, those young people in families who are socially at risk. In this way, the Slovenian public will, of course, learn that the purpose of this government is also to express support, material support within the framework of scholarships to young people, so that they can study as successfully as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u336	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Support for this marriage is not questionable at all. Even with the opposition, that is not a question. Of course we'll all support him. But I find it incomprehensible that I have so much smugness on this side, how best it is now, how most beautiful it is. After all, if you don't have anything, there's already 10 cents in your pocket more than before when you really didn't have anything. But why, if you're talking about the highest censorship so far, why haven't you given up on those 2,000 students? I don't know why. There's probably a reason. Maybe you'll select which students will get. Maybe those who are your sympathizers or something. But given this attitude towards the student population, I think you're going to have rapid declines in support of young people. Because it is logical that if you speak one thing, you do the other thing so that there can be nothing better. That's exactly the difference between the opposition and the coalition. We will support your marriage. But you have not supported the improvement of your marriage and will not support it. Of course not. Whether there's resentment here, whether there's a misunderstanding here, whether there's just plain stupidity here or something, I'm not going to go into that. But it does indicate that something is wrong with your thinking and it appears that something very, very big is wrong with your thinking. On the other hand, of course. The smaller the education, the easier the control. This was clearly stated in the preceding paragraphs of this policy option. Very clear postulate. Today it is no longer used in the Russian Federation because they found it bad, but they began to respect it in the United States where they began to fear intellectuals. And it turns out our coalition is also afraid of intellectuals, and so it's better to have a little less of them than one too many. Just like that stupid poster on our own when he showed four million hands. Shame! We'd write 10,000 smart heads. But as it turns out, you're against having smart heads. You'd rather have good hands working for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u338	Thank you. Mr. Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u339	The DeSUS Group will certainly support this law. It bothers us to divide the marriage into yours and our marriages. It's our law. This will be approved by law today and is certainly our common law, which brings some novelties and better quality into the system of scholarships and student status. We are happy to do so, so we support him. We also accept the fact in the DeSUS Group that this is, in fact, only a phase goal that we are achieving in the construction and implementation of the whole single system of scholarships. We know that the amendment proposed by the SDS is also not bad. At the moment, however, he did not yet have the conditions for support. I am confident that we will continue to discuss this issue and to have the opportunity to make a positive decision on this issue, as well as on the drafting of this law and legislation, the status of scholarships and students. The DeSUS Group supports the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u340	Thank you. Anyone in their own name? I'm opening the application. Mr. Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u341	Dear Vice President! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, as well as I, we will be happy to support it, but with a bitter taste that no amendment has been adopted with which we wanted to achieve that the Student Organisation is satisfied and students are satisfied that those students who have not obtained scholarships can also normally be educated. At the same time, I must say something very unacceptable and something that was said here in this House a few minutes ago, namely, I must mention Mr Levanič, for he mentioned the Slovenian Democratic Party ten times. He claimed that the previous government had done something bad. That's unacceptable. The former government has done something bad because it has adopted a system law on scholarships after 16 years. My dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't know where we are now, I don't understand it anymore. Because the previous government had adopted the System Act on Scholarship after 16 years, it had done something bad. That's what Mr. Levanic said. Such Members in this House - it is indeed a matter of what interests and whose interests they represent, and that is indeed a question to be asked. And one more thing. Speaking of the effects of the law, this government adopted the law two months ago and this National Assembly, which we fixed for the first time after two months. So, nothing out of the ordinary if the law is fixed. It makes sense that you can't predict all the things that will happen at the time of the adoption of the law, and it makes sense that this law is being corrected for the benefit of students and students. And I'm sure it's the right thing to do. However, it is unacceptable and unacceptable for the Member to allow himself to claim that the government which has adopted the Systemic Act on Grants has done something bad for this country, which is unacceptable for this student organisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u342	Thank you. Mr. Rogers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u343	Thank you very much. I will uphold the law for the reasons already stated here. It would also be difficult to agree with the assessment that it is better for this government, for this coalition, if its citizens are less educated. I am therefore surprised by the announcement of Mr Trinitarian's support for the law on behalf of the Slovenian National Party because research into the public opinion and educational structure of the voters of the various parties shows that it would be up to him to reject such a law in the political objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u344	Thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u345	I will certainly support the law by voting for the way I voted for the amendment, by proving that I have no double criteria and that there is no difference between words and actions, which is what separates the present opposition from those who currently have power, because we have actions that follow words and do so in full and without exception. That is why we are also educated because knowledge is a real value for us, and also because we see where it brings the country, when ignorance and incompetence prevails after the effects of the current government, which has caused us to drive the most expensive petrol now along the most expensive highways, as the long-term unemployed and as the social gross product that was in the past is rapidly increasing. It is so when ignorance and incompetence prevail. However, I am pleased that even in the coalition, the knowledge that it is worth investing in knowledge, for the time being, it was only one lonely, for example, a seafaring that obviously did not bring spring, but also some there, I know that they are studying and if they study properly enough, they may once know when they will cry about the law on scholarship, that it was, as has already been said, swine and crime, about that, then they would know that she voted for that law on scholarship also the entire SD Group. You see what kind of joke ignorance and incompetence leads to if you speak too quickly before you know the facts. For this reason it is certainly worth supporting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u346	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u347	Thank you for your word. I'll support the marriage because I think it's good. I see that the ministry has made enough efforts, even though it will have one mistake, namely the non-admission of an amendment that could bridge problems until a system law is passed. Besides, I think I owe you a favor, as my colleague Grimes has already said, if they supported ours and we will also be their marriage. I hope that after 16 years of emptiness, there will be suddenly intensive work in two years in this area, and in the coming years we may bring the matter to such a level that together we will find a better solution that will hold back for a long time. Certainly it is essential that in a tight economic situation coming from the outside; as we have found yesterday, we are also successfully pouring oil into this fire of the economic crisis by increasing the prices of petrol, oil derivatives, tolls and so on and by reducing the standard of living; nevertheless, an increased number of scholarships will somehow help to overcome this crisis. So, like I said, I'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u348	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u349	Of course, I will also be happy to support this marriage. However, I would much rather support this law if it were adopted by the amendments they proposed, I stress that it was proposed by the students themselves. It was not proposed by colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party or our parliamentary group. We've only formally submitted it for them, so this demagogy and these accusations, I don't think they're in place. It should be borne in mind that students are in a much more difficult situation today than they were in last year or 2007. The economic crisis, which is so deep in Slovenia, also because of the incapacity of this government and because of the failure to respect the proposals that we have made in good faith in the Slovenian Democratic Party, is greater than ever. Many students, who have co-financed their studies in recent years, are now also facing the fact that they are no longer receiving work. Therefore, they would benefit greatly, much more and more from these scholarships than they have been in recent years. That's why I think it's the wrong decision to reject this amendment. I will still support this marriage. However, I would like to point out something else that the law you are criticising that we adopted as a bad marriage in the last term, you are all from the opposition that you were then, and now in the coalition, you have also supported it. So it's unfair for you to spit on something that you supported at the time. This marriage is one step for the better, but far from being what we could achieve with that amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u350	Thank you. Since I can still see the hands to explain my voice, I'm opening the application. Mr. Luka Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u351	Thank you very much. I will also vote in favour of the law with a sense of shame and sadness. I regret that my colleague, Dejan Levanič, has allowed himself to think with his head and that he has allowed himself to appreciate that the previous government has done something bad. In his name, I apologize for thinking differently, as it should be, and given that we're a "chimera" he's going to have to wash all his dishes tonight. ♪ Laughing. ♪
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u352	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u353	Thank you very much. When I was young, I watched a movie, Kekec. And there was also Bedanec, and the positive character was Tinkara - a very positive character, even Kosorin - extremely good and kind, not very bright, Rozle. And I'd like to buy this Pinkie a candy bar, like the Animal Empire. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u354	Thank you. Mr. Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u355	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is true that during an important debate it is right that we are even a little witty, and we are careful not to cross the border. I think it is also right that we should consider the content of the Amendment and Complementation Act, which was adopted in the previous government, which was the basis for filling a gap that had not existed until then. And if we are called upon by Members and Members to decide today how to improve further, then it is only right that we follow this principle both in our actions and in our words. I am sure that we are at least that part of the Members and Members who did not support the amendment, which was really substantively based on cooperation with the Student Organisation, and because we hoped and expected that, however, the competent ministry would be able to find the necessary resources if the amendment in the content, as proposed, were also accepted. I'm afraid that didn't happen. By leaving us in the SDS Group to express and, of course, support the content of the bill without including this amendment, and I am confident that many young people, especially families, will improve some standard. And if we had this social aspect before us even when we decided on the content of the amendment, of course we would also have decided on it. After all, Members and Members are obliged to worry, so we have committed ourselves, especially in this crisis, to improving social status. I will certainly support the proposal for a law on scholarship.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u356	Thank you. Mr. Campus.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u357	I'd go back a little bit to reality. Mr. Victory Jelinčič Trinit said earlier in his explanation that if you have nothing and then you have 10 cents you're richer. It's really my worst fear for someone to trample on someone's knees and then in 10 days, give him a piece of dry bread and he's grateful for that piece of dry bread and kisses his hand. I'm not agreeing to this. Once again, we have the "Knowledge of Harvest" launched by this Parliament, and we have the "Day of Spring" where we stressed education. We all agree that it's the most expensive and the best investment, but let's do nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, just a little more attention, because we're going to be done sooner or later. What are we gonna do? I can't understand someone expressing their will to have more scholarships and saying, "That's why I won't support the amendment," I won't name them because I can't. This is what Mr. Vice President would say: "I prefer you, I like to hang out with you, but I will never come to you." These are nebulosis in the National Assembly that are not allowed. If we want scholarships, if we want as many students as we can, if we want to help them as we can, with the amendment, there are 2,000 more scholarships. But if we wait for a marriage, who will remember in six months that there will be no marriage. And in this new marriage, nothing will be better than it is now, there will be 5,000 new scholarships. That's what this is about. If we have the will to help students, let's support the amendment. That is why I will not, in spite of the President's words, support this law, express my quorum and have a clear conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u358	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u359	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! I'll support this marriage. It is true, however, that it is a pity that the amendment that we tabled on the proposal of the Student Organisation has not been adopted. I think it would be those 2 to 3 thousand new scholarships, because in the last half of the year we somehow got 30,000 more unemployed at the employment agency. It's during this government. Therefore, the situation is significantly different and any scholarship can help. Even the parents of one of the applicants who will not receive the scholarship are likely to be at the employment agency. But I certainly don't understand those who say that the current law that was passed two years ago is that it sucks, that it's bad, some even that it's harmful. Allow me to remind you, young sir, two years ago there were 70 Members in this Chamber when we voted in favour of this law and 70 of them voted in favour. So, without your colleagues, it wouldn't be 70 out of 70, so you supported it. And now you're saying that marriage is bad. You're not going to claim that your colleagues voted on purpose for a bad marriage. Probably not. It's just that the marriage was the way it was appropriate at the time. As far as I can recall, it was just with the amendments of your colleagues that even made it a little worse, but okay, the law was passed. So now don't say he's bad. In addition, how can you claim that the marriage was bad, but if that government, the former, has prepared money for a possible increase? But you took the scholarship money at the rebalancing and put it somewhere else. And now we have every right to propose such an amendment, which adds something else to it, because the money has been provided. And you can't say the marriage was bad. Even the money was ready. That is why I will vote in favour of such a law. Although he is not what we wanted him to be, and he could be, according to the financial situation, but he has contributed something to the better condition of the students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u360	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u361	I'll vote for the law. Now it turns out there's a problem with the proposaler, even though you've always said it isn't. At least they are honest in DeSUS and they said that if the proposal were someone else, perhaps the amendment would be adopted and if the Student Organisation of Slovenia came to us instead, they would probably table an amendment and be accepted and could talk about the co-existence of generations. My colleagues on the other hand convinced me that it was not a problem for the applicants. We were diagnosed with populism, but they had such populism performances that some media star might envy them. This marriage that was so bad, you say we accepted something bad, we obviously accepted it together. So you voted for something very bad, too. 6. 2007 As much as there was here to talk about how bad the law is, ask yourself what your marriage is, which we fixed today after two months, and we were significantly less critical than you were before the law on scholarships, not just until the law on scholarships, but because everything that happened in the previous term, everything that the previous government has done is not going to be good. Among the new unemployed, which is 25,000, 30,000, we don't know, the number increases daily, there are also parents of future scholarships, and every new scholarship is certainly a plus, so I will vote for the law, even though you didn't vote for a good amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u362	Thank you. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u363	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that, earlier in my vote, I had some unreasonable behaviour of the coalition and opposition that, in the event of an apparent improvement, the amendment, which would clearly improve the law, had been voted against. It seems to me that the approach to participation in this National Assembly is not the same as the President of the Government has said, constructive, but is distinct. We have also adopted a budget rebalancing this year. There you modernised this grant item and reduced the issue for almost €7 million. Apparently, there's a paradigm, there's less. We have reduced the €6.8 million item. Now there's less money on this item. You've made some changes and you're saying there'll be more scholarships and eventually they might even get higher scholarships. All those who get extra scholarships. I hope you have some mathematics in this coalition part that can calculate it. Does what you say really hold? Less money, more people who get scholarships and probably get higher scholarships. But I'd like to point out that it's not all the way you talk. Under this mandate, you additionally taxed agricultural subsidies. Remember what happened. In this mandate, you have further increased excise duties. I would like to remind you that many students are driving to their colleges with personal cars, and also by raising excise duties, you have significantly fuelled and raised costs and so on. In short, there is some inconsistencies in this part. That's how it is when someone takes not only ownership of the country, but ownership and possession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u364	Thank you. Mr. Levanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u365	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to vote for the law myself because I really think it's a step forward. I'm sorry if I was misunderstood when I was talking about the previous marriage. I did not say that the marriage was bad, I said that he did something bad, especially when he included in the censorship or among the applicants the child’s allowance, subsistence, pension, and, in fact, 17 thousand young applicants who urgently needed a scholarship left at the door to obtain a scholarship. The new law, which is before us today and for which I hope to adopt it, eliminates these shortcomings, even more, increases the price substantially, increases the price to 68% of the minimum wage from before 65%, including up to 70% of the minimum wage for positive discrimination, especially when we are talking about single-parent families or students and students with special needs. Together, we must be aware that today, Members and Members, if we vote together for this law, we are taking a step forward in order to further regulate this area. I believe that, as the Minister has assured us, we will come to an integrated law, which, of course, together with dialogue with students, will bring an even more regulated area and I am very pleased with such opposition to this law. After all, it is a step taken by the Government at the right time, and it is that it will allow students and students as much as possible a scholarship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u366	Thank you. Since I see desire, I am reopening my application for explanations of vote. Mrs. Pecan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u367	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will support the law because, for the coming period, until the final comprehensive amendment of the Law on Grants certainly significantly improves the position of students and students and students who will be able to obtain a state grant. At the same time, this law will also regulate things that could not be regulated at all before the start of this school year 2009/2010. The fact is that 6.8 million reductions in the grant budget are logical as a result of the 60 % of the minimum wage being applied last year, so that so many fewer scholarships have been granted. In the middle of the year, the scholarship is not normally granted unless, by chance, any other Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia changes completely as a result of this. It is logical, therefore, that the law that we adopt regulates matters for the period from 1 September onwards when high school students are able to receive a scholarship and from 1 October onwards when they receive an additional student scholarship for university or university studies. For this reason, I believe that there is no logical basis for a reduction in the grant funding in this year. Those who can count, of course, know what it would be like to leave this money on the budget, which we would not be able to spend this year at all. Therefore, I look forward to receiving a new law on scholarships for consideration, and we will then be able to hear the deep comments of all those in the previous term, rather than in 2007 in the first year of the mandate, according to the law on scholarships, in 2005.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u368	Thank you. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u369	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I've talked about this marriage a few times today, including the amendment. Let me reiterate that I personally support him, the law as supported by the parliamentary group. I say that I do not support the amendment, as the Group of Members does not. I reject the instigation I've heard if the students were with DeSUS, but perhaps DeSUS would support it and submit it as his amendment. I guarantee the students were with us. I guarantee that Mr Franz Žnidaršič, the leader of the parliamentary group, explained to them why we support the law and why we cannot support the amendment. And the students visited someone else, and the SDS probably adopted that proposal. From being adoptive, it is not logical to conclude that we must all be adoptives.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u370	Thank you. Mr. Menich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u371	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, my colleague. Of course I'll support the marriage. I'm sorry our amendment wasn't adopted. For probably no one thought that many students came from the countryside, from a less friendly social environment and many of them could receive scholarships from these additional 2,000 scholarships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u372	Thank you. Mr. Yuri Franco.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u373	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I will vote in favour of the law, also because obviously we are all in favour of this law, but we are here to debate for how long. I hear from this side that it is a shame that we have not accepted the amendment, but that the amendment has already been discussed or explained by the vote, and now we explain our vote for this law. It's a good marriage. We'll back him up. We could probably add two or three thousand scholarships to this marriage. If the government had already added them, the opposition would probably have demanded six thousand and so on. Infinite. That's the role of the opposition. We understand that. But also legislation is the art of possible, such as the art of possible, politics. So, let's all support this marriage together, do something good for students and students. I think there is no dilemma here, and I hope that we will now vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-06.ana.u374	Thank you. Any other wishes? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 68 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the sixth session of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. However, I inform you that in half an hour, this will begin at 6 p.m. the 7th urgent meeting of the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič. Thank you.
