ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the third meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Milenko Ziherl, Mr Srečko Friend and Mr Roberto Battelli. I invited the President of the Government of Borut Pahor to the 1st item of the agenda, Mr Drag Kos, President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption of the Republic of Slovenia, to the 11th item of the agenda, representatives of the Government to all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 20 February 2009. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of the item from the agenda, so we are moving on to the consideration and decision on two proposals for an extension of the agenda. On the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, I propose that the agenda be extended by considering the draft law on temporary reduction of salaries of officials - an urgent procedure. You received the proposal by letter of 26. 2. 2009 Would you like to speak with a representative of the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, chairman of the committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the bill's proponent? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr. Victory Jelinčič noble, Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is interesting that today Members will be lowering their salaries, while all the ruling coalition is prepared for a long and wide-ranging "shocking" of various compensations, so-called compensations, 25,000 so far, 25,000, in short, probably 35,000, to those who will demand, I don't know what else. I think it's a subversion, a strange transfer of the National Assembly, when, on the one hand, to throw sand in our eyes, how we're going to "spare" hugely at the salaries of Members, but on the other hand, the state is willing to throw endless money to those who don't actually deserve it. In this regard, we will object to the inclusion of this item on the agenda, and I hope that there will be another Member in here who thinks it is small and seems to him to be making fun of the entire Slovenian population.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u3	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on the proposal for enlargement and brings us to a decision. Members and Members, please check your voting devices, and the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. So we decide on the first proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 4. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider this point as the 6th point on Thursday, 5 March, after the final vote. Following the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, I propose that the agenda be extended by considering the Proposal for a Decree establishing and the tasks of the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly. You received the proposal by letter dated 27. 2. 2009 The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] This concludes the debate on the proposal for enlargement and brings us to a decision. We decide on a second proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will treat this point as the 8th point on Thursday, 5 March 2009, after the final vote. And we are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and with the additions adopted. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 3. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the agenda for the 3rd meeting of the assembly has been set. I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. at 1 p.m. on the agenda, this is the question of Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u4	Colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 41 questions from the Member States in writing within the deadline. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the question put by the ruling coalition member will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Below, only the Minister present will answer the unanswered parliamentary questions raised at the 2nd meeting of the Assembly. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is asked by several ministers, they have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question; Members and Members, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government; this shall be decided by the State Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, Minister or Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral response; in this case, I will place the question at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Karel Erjavec, Minister of Environment and Space, and Dr Matej Lahovnik, Minister of Economy, apologized on this point today. You have received a review of the questions sent and initiatives not answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The first question will be asked by Mr Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u5	Thank you very much. That's a nice hello to you all! Mr President, I would like to ask you: who will bear the financial consequences of the payment of the envisaged compensation awarded in the trials to the so-called deleted? The fact that the decisions now issued do not have a legal basis for any compensation is not the case. By any such decision issued by the Ministry of the Interior, the State recognises the so-called deleted that it has made a mistake and violated human rights. The recognition of a violation of human rights means that this must somehow be replaced, apologized and repaid. This is also the purpose of all these so-called deleted ones. That's why it's important to know that it's not really what they say there's not going to be a plasma lawsuit. Bo. In fact, gentlemen from the so-called Society of Eraseds have prepared samples of what this action against the State should look like. All of this has been prepared by Mr. Krivic, and this has been done well in this society. Even two variants have been made, one for the District Court in Ljubljana for actions against the State with an unlimited limit of claim or for the District Court in Ljubljana, for actions of up to eight thousand three hundred and forty-five euros in compensation. Of course, this is just the beginning, because any such action brings additional, I would say, and then interest on interest and then other requirements, and there was no job opportunity, but there was no possibility of social insurance, and so on, despite the fact that all these people actually lived here illegally, worked in black, did not pay taxes and so on. In short, I'm asking: How can a country go into such an adventure, I would say, when we have so many people living on the brink of survival, when we have so many people who are actually unemployed? We'll have more. Now, as I hear, we will invite those from Guantanamo to Ljubljana or Slovenia. I would suggest that then the distinguished ministers and ministers from the Government take these people to their homes, I think in this case you will show your attitude and openness to these problems and that you do not intend to burden Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Mr President of the Government, Borut Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u7	Mr Member, I am grateful to you for your question, and the next will be, I think, related to this topic. The time has come for us to resolve this once and for all, and I want to tell you how the government intended to resolve this. Now, like you said, in the last days we've heard a lot of calculations about alleged damages. In a way, the reason for these calculations was the news that the avian district court awarded Mr Aleksandr Todorovic, in a lawsuit against the Republic of Slovenia, a compensation of EUR seventeen thousand. In addition to the fact that the judgment is not yet binding, I would like to answer your question with two answers. First of all, finding the right to compensation is a matter of court judgment and not a government. And secondly, it is essential, Comrade Jelinčič, that the fact of unlawful deletion does not in any way establish compensation liability on its own. This judgment and the forecasts for the issue of supplementary decisions are not related, which shows the fact that the action relates to the period when the decisions have not yet been issued. We reiterate the true data in the area of compensation proceedings against the Republic of Slovenia in cases so-called deleted from the domestic courts: According to the Ministry of the Interior, thirty complaints have been filed so far, of which six judicial proceedings have already been completed and have ended with the rejection of claims. 24 more are open. So far, no one in Slovenia has been legally compensated for the deletion. And that, in the fact that more than 4,000 of these people had already received supplementary decisions in the course of Minister Bohinc years ago. If I finish. The current conduct, the current conduct of the Minister of the Interior, has nothing to do with compensation. The issue of compensation by implementing supplementary decisions has no connection and is entirely within the jurisdiction of the judiciary. Also, Member, there is no legal, professional or factual argument to conclude that any compensation could in any way endanger the public financial position of our country, at least in these times of crisis. I can ensure that the Ministry of the Interior and the Government closely monitor this area. And if it turns out otherwise, we will respond appropriately, including when necessary regulating the issue of payment or lump sum compensation, or limiting the amount of these compensations. I think the issue of compensation is overly politicized. And as legal experts have also noted, the various visual orientations are also pre-seasoned.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Complementary question. Please, Mr. Victory Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, you just admitted that the damages will be paid. For you have said either lump sums, or limitation of damages. That's what they say. The government has already quietly accepted this fact. This association of so-called eraseds already requires about EUR 500 million. That's what they're prepared for in the union. I hope you got that information from the government, too. It is interesting that the Horn factory, where they are established, does not hurt, but these people, who have actually cheated in Slovenia, who have been spittin' in Slovenia for long and wide. Here I have several lists of names sent to me by people from different parts of Slovenia, what these people who have seen on TV have done and how they have acted against Slovenia. That's sad. And there's something else that bothers me, Mr. Prime Minister, when you said there was no illegal erasure. There was no erasure. At that time, Slovenia was praised as a country with the best-ordered status of any citizen within Slovenia, by the EU, by the United Nations. Now it's just not working out for the pretty. It is true that some legal experts are being misdirected, but it is necessary to say, in view of this [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] What the Minister in Trenji said was that this is how Mrs Pirnat, Cerar and Mr Jerovšek changed their opinion, I have here letters from these gentlemen saying that it is not true that they have not changed anything and that in fact a constitutional law must be made that will solve each case individually. [[...]] And that is also what we must achieve. For only in this way will Slovenia be able to bring the matter down as it should.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u11	Someone said that the real country is the rule of law, Comrade Jelinčič. And the Constitutional Court answered a question that has been politically debated throughout the 1990s. More times. And the Constitutional Court must be respected. The task of the Government and the National Assembly is to comply with the Constitutional Court's judgment. The secretary's doing it. What he is doing is not directly related to the fact that the courts are deciding as they should - regardless of the policy, according to the rule of law, and I think that, as it is said, the only right way is to finally resolve the issue of the deleted, the legal path.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u13	That's right, Mr. President. I am not satisfied with the answers that Mr. Prime Minister has given me. Because, as it turns out, our country is becoming a state of compensation. Everyone demands some sort of compensation, no matter what arguments and arguments anyone has, the government does its own thing. In the end, something similar happened in the War Violence Act, where the German army was to receive compensation from Slovenia. And I have here an original document of one of these gentlemen who received financial support from the country until 24 March 1956. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u14	Respected [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u15	from the state of the former Reich. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u16	Dear colleague Jelinčič, procedural [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u17	I'm on the ground! I'm on the ground!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u18	Question, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u19	Mr. President, I warrant it! And I need a little broader to justify it. I would therefore also point out once again that the Constitutional Court’s judgment is not definitive. It should be borne in mind that, despite the fact that the Minister says that the Constitutional Court is the highest judicial authority, this is where it is disturbed. The Constitutional Court is not a court of law! It is not a branch of judicial authority, and it cannot therefore determine how the National Assembly must decide in any case. The National Assembly shall have the autonomous right to act in accordance with the political views of its own population. But our people, who are committed to it, are suffering from such foolish decisions and the money that we are going to throw out of the window. And because we are not in the Slovenian National Party for this, and especially not at this point in the economic crisis to just give money left-to-right, who just remembers. And given that the number has increased from 18,000 to 25,000, and according to some statements by our government members, or your government, Mr. Prime Minister, that we can expect another 12,000 of those we didn't want to accept at the time, or whatever, then we can count on another 10,000 and 10,000. There'll be 100,000 applications here in no time. That's right, but the lawyers are gonna be doing a fantastic job. If the lawyer charges only a thousand euros, it'll be 25 thousand euros to someone. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u20	Dear colleague, your time is running out. The time for a procedural proposal is being avoided.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u21	Take it easy, Mr. President. I don't have to jump into words. And in this case, it's going to fall into someone's pocket for 25 million euros. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I request that this be discussed at the next or one of the following meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, in the framework of the votes. Mr Jakob Presečnik - Slovenian People's Party - will raise a question to the Prime Minister of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u23	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues, colleagues and all present. According to the Statistics Office, the number of active persons decreased by almost 4 000 in December 2008 and some 63,000 registered unemployed in November 2008. More than 6,500, over 4,500 men and nearly 2,000 women contributed most. According to November, the number of registered unemployed persons increased by almost 3,000. Again, the number of registered unemployed persons, i.e. those, at the time, during the most active family life, the creation and survival of their family, has increased, as these persons account for almost 60% of the total increase in the number of registered unemployed. Further forgivenesss are announced. Many of these workers have leased high loans secured by mortgage on purchased property to solve their housing problem with banks in the past. In the event of an inability to repay the loan, the bank threatens to cash the mortgage and thus lose its roof over their heads. Dear Mr. President of the Government, I ask you: Is the Government preparing any measures to prevent and mitigate the consequences of the dismissal of those workers who are, and unfortunately, will they still lose their jobs due to the current economic and financial crisis and have mortgaged housing loans secured in banks? In the event of the inability to repay the loan, the bank threatens to seize the property and thus lose, as I said before, the roof above their head. In the event that they are: What are these measures? And: When will the government accept them or propose what solutions to the National Assembly for reception? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr President Borut Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u25	The National Assembly will surely recall that right at the beginning of the mandate, we have all discussed the dilemma, whether in the first responses to the start of the economic and financial crisis the Government should respond to fiscal cuts in the labour-intensive or capital-intensive sectors. Finally, the Slovenian Government - this is now showing the results - rightly decided to go the other way, by which other countries are now looking at their alternatives in order to solve the problem of unemployment. Finally, the European Union summit will also be devoted to this in May. Let me say that I consider the main achievement of this government in the first hundred days to have prepared, in a timely and effective manner, the necessary legislative measures to mitigate the financial, economic and also, as it all appears, the social crisis, as far as possible in view of the international nature of this crisis. At the same time, I think it is very important that, with the proposal for a rebalancing coming on your bench, it has created a revenue and expenditure side so that it does not increase the deficit over European criteria. At the same time, the Government has not forgotten the measures to ensure the developmental breakthrough of the Slovenian economy and society over a longer period of time. As we have often said here: The best social policy is development policy. As far as job conservation is concerned, I would like to say the following. The Act on partial full-time subsidisation is also intended for workers to keep their jobs with current employers. The Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia has already received 309 applications from employers for over 37,000 workers. The Minister for Labour estimates that we have already maintained at least 5,000 jobs with this measure, which would otherwise be lost. But just keeping jobs is not the ultimate goal of the current government, as the economy needs to be restructured. To this end, the Government proposes a substantial increase in the resources of an active employment policy, which will also allow this to happen. Almost €85 million will be allocated to active employment policy programmes this year. Of this, for advice and assistance in the search for employment, €3 million, for training and education over €24 million, for subsidies for employment and self-employment, €24 million for programmes to increase social inclusion, almost €34 million. These funds are provided in part from the European Social Fund, which is specifically focused this year on employment and the prevention of the transition of redundant workers and others, such as students, to outright unemployment. Thus there are subsidies available for employment because employment is the right solution for those who are unemployed. In the amount of EUR 4,000, one-year employment, or 8,000 two-year employment. Subsidies for part-time employment amounting to €2,500 for 20 hours of work. And self-employment subsidies, Member Presecnik, amounting to EUR 4,500. In short, the Government of course, as you have all been concerned about the problem of rising unemployment and the social pressures of people who find themselves in the situation of unemployment, especially if it is a number of members of the same family, the government is paying a lot of attention to this, monitoring the data. So far, she thinks she did the right thing. However, he knows that these are not the last measures and that action will have to be taken. Our work over the last 100 days has taught us that it is good to prepare measures; they are being prepared, including for the issue you have asked us; to discuss with the social partners and then to bring them to the public and to Parliament, not to announce some measures in advance. Once again, the government is very committed to this. If we succeed in preventing social distress and thereby a social basis between our people, caused by the economic and financial crisis, by one social dialogue and by the right measures, we will survive this difficult year ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President, a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I agree deeply with you, Mr President, that the best social policy is development policy. This is what we have always stressed since this crisis hit us. Of course, I also agree with the fact that, of course, it is the main thing to keep jobs, as you have stressed, and to create new jobs. However, in every way, even in the past, when the economic and financial situation was taking place, there was a significant difference in cases such as what I had previously mentioned or asked the question. Undoubtedly they will be, I hope they will be as few as possible, but there will certainly be some such cases when certain measures are needed. I also have information that our banks are also preparing different measures, offering different moratoriums and so on. They deal with it on a case-by-case basis. Nevertheless, I am giving either question or initiative, if you want the Government to think seriously in this area as well, and to prepare some measures that will be introduced depending on the possibility of a mandatory moratorium and so on. I know you've also had an interview with representatives of the banks and I suggest you continue to do so. This means that we are also thinking about those people who, despite these social measures, will remain in this problem. Thank you very much and thank you for your answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u28	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u29	Well, I'm going to take this additional question as an additional incentive to the government to think about these people. As I say, and as I will say later, we have adopted the first package of measures, the second package of measures and the proposal for a rebalancing. The first package of measures, in particular the law that was drawn up, acted as we wished, targeted. An active employment policy is the right answer to the issue of job losses. However, you are right, Member President, it will happen that people will be out of a job and despite the help I have mentioned by re-education, the re-qualification will be in financial distress. A third package of measures is being prepared. We will also have to take care of those who will be in social distress when it is likely that direct assistance from the State or its instruments will be necessary to spend this demanding time with the necessary human dignity. Don't worry, the government is very careful about thinking about this and is monitoring and wants, of course, to act in such a way that this measure will be targeted and that, I will say, it will help those people who will be in distress and that, say, such assistance from the State will not be given to those who do not need it in order to spend this time of crisis with dignity. But once again, as we both said, true social policy is a development policy and I think that the Slovenian government is making the right decision when it comes to counter-crisis measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač, Slovenian Democratic Party, will ask the Prime Minister a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u31	Dear colleagues and colleagues, other present, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government. Before one hundred days after the appointment of the Government, the Ministry of the Interior began to issue decisions without a legal basis to persons who were transferred from the register of permanent residents to the register of foreigners on 26 February 1992 because they had not regulated their status in the previous period. It's a question of so-called deleted. In doing so, the Minister refers to the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2003, which does not allow the issue of decisions without a legal basis, and therefore enjoys your support. A short time ago, the president of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mr Ivo Wygl, announced on a visit to Belgrade the issuance of decisions and the payment of compensations to the so-called deleted. A weak month after the announcement, Aleksandar Todorovic, the company's president, received an award of EUR 17,000 with late interest costs of nearly EUR 40,000. In many cases, compensation will be significantly higher than the first one, and others will be lower. But if we come from a known figure, that means over a billion euros, as much as the projected budget deficit that your government is planning with the 2009 rebalancing and all that without a legal basis. The decision comes at a time when the many injustices of the past that have been caused to our citizens have not yet been corrected. The decision comes at a time when people lose their fundamental constitutional right from day to day, their right to work. For her, 200 to 300 people are deprived every day. The decision comes at a time when many rights are being violated and at a time when predictions of the government's passivity and the slow decision-making are becoming more real. On the other hand, a decision was taken very quickly to unduly burden taxpayers with an additional billion euros. Mr President, I therefore ask you: Why are you doing this? Why do you give in to the constant blackmail of one of the coalition parties? Extortion by a party who escapes even a young person because of its mode of action. There was no need for such a step, since it is a matter of issuing decisions to persons already in possession of a status. But this decision reflects your government's priority scale. I'm asking you: What will be the consequences of the decision to issue decisions without a legal basis, and who will take responsibility for them? To the extent that you feel that compensation to the so-called deleted is not a problem: Are you and the entire ministerial assembly ready to place your personal property in payment of these claims? I also ask you, Mr President-respected: Why, contrary to your personal conviction, do you not support the constitutional law regarding so-called deleted persons, who once and for all would settle this issue so that public finances would not be compromised and that each case would be dealt with individually, thereby impeding those who speculated at the time of independence to act against self-sustainment and our country, and now even to receive compensation? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u33	You've given me a few questions, and I'm going to answer some very directly. First of all, most of them may be interested in my personal opinion on the possibility of resolving this issue by means of a constitutional law that I myself have personally been fond of. What is the problem, and why have we not been able to come together in all these years even when this possibility has been thematicized and tolerated? Constitutional law means intervention in constitutional matter. We cannot go beyond the fact that in this case there is a change to the Constitution. In the Slovenian legal order, the constitutional law, which would fully address the issue deleted by constitutional law, would be acceptable only; this was in some way a condition that we were also those who had reserves to resolve in this way; acceptable only if the matter were dealt with as consistently as possible with by a decision of the Constitutional Court. Every time we discussed as much as possible, we found out, at least those who did not eventually agree to the constitutional law to go beyond this limit of permissible. So, the story of deleted is about; let me repeat again, because it is right that this discussion is conducted openly; for the story of people without their own knowledge, at the will of the country, they have become not only foreigners but foreigners living in the country illegally. As it has been said, the act of deletion could be politically thematic until it was said, Member of the Republic of Montenegro, Constitutional Court. At that time, it was pronounced directly and seven times indirectly and it was assessed as an unconstitutional, illegal and unlawful conduct of the State. The actions of the erasure, particularly the long-standing and so far unsuccessful resolution of this problem by the State, have also explicitly condemned all important and credible international human rights institutions. As I have already said, the conduct of this government, or Minister Kresalova, and for it assumes an objective responsibility, she and I, and I believe that the whole cabinet of government, are therefore appropriate and unsurpassed and even less controversial in the decisive handling of this issue. On the contrary, it is an act that we are legally and morally bound by the Government and the State, its implementation is professional, imagined, serious and consistent with the Slovenian legal order. Now, once again, to the thing you've repeated twice. In 2003, the Constitutional Court, in a well-known 8th point of the Constitutional Decision, unequivocally stated: "Note by Bene, since this is a direct answer to your question, the Ministry of the Interior must issue supplementary decisions on the determination of their permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia since 26. 2. 1992 onward." This position was not adopted by the Government, not by yours, not by mine, but by the Constitutional Court in 2003 that the Ministry of the Interior must issue a supplementary decision. Two years later, she reiterated that, I quote, "for failure to implement the 8th point and not to issue supplementary decisions on the recognition of permanent residence back to those categories of persons, there have been anti-constitutional consequences and that any delay in the enforcement of that decision constitutes a continuation of the anti-constitutional situation in the Republic of Slovenia." This last repeated position of the Constitutional Court and the inadmissible time in which Slovenia failed to resolve this problem, the legal experts stated that they had changed, many of them, their opinions. And today, as far as I am aware, all the public responses of the legal profession attach to the proper conduct of the internal minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u35	Look, Mr. President, first some history. Following the adoption of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia in 1991 and the laws of independence, the possibility was given to all to regulate their status. On the basis of these laws, some fewer than 200,000 people have also settled their status. Those who speculated about independence did not do so, so they did not expose these problems for years after independence. The heads began to rise as the time of independence grew apart, as the generals of the former Yugoslav Army now did, who wanted a Slovenian pension, and in 1991 they were members of the army that attacked us. Which is something like the former state paying pensions to fascist officers or their widows. The only appropriate way to deal with this issue of so-called deleted is therefore the Constitutional Law, since the problem also arose with Article 13 of the 1991 Constitutional Law, which was adopted by the previous government after approximately two years of coordination with parliamentary parties in 2007, but stuck in the National Assembly. The constitutional law also supported the former president of the state, Dr. Janez Drnovšek. As leader of the opposition Social Democracy, you, Madam President, were at that time defending a consensus that you are not now defending or saying that this consensus is not possible. I don't know if you've been convinced by new partners from LDS or really third parties. I think it should be stressed that this issue is also a matter of fraud by your constituents, as your party has not highlighted this issue in its pre-election programmes, and that it is the total ignorance of half a million citizens and citizens who voted against it in 2004 in a referendum on the so-called technical law. I ask you, Madam President, because you have not answered my question: Is this government also available to people who are simply cheering up?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u37	This Government, Mr Černač, is not blubbering, nor is it available to people, nor to the rule of law. This Government wants us to resolve this issue in accordance with the legal order. This is probably not the only group of people for whom or the Constitutional Court will find that they have been wronged. And there is always someone who defies the opinion of the Constitutional Court and believes that constitutional law should change the decision of the Constitutional Court. Maybe it did, and it's gonna happen again. In this case, we've tried this several times. And you're right, I was, like I said, among those who were looking for a chance to solve this thing with constitutional law. But we have always come to the point where we have broken apart in the realization that the attempt to resolve with constitutional law goes too far and that it repeals the institution of the Constitutional Court and, last but not least, repeals the rule of law itself and increases the lack of confidence in the rule of law and this rule of law by the Parliament and the Government. So there will be groups that will be affected. And if we solve this issue as we have to, Slovenia will become aware that regardless of who the injustices are committed, no matter what the attitude of the political or public majority towards them is, they will be corrected accordingly. How, I already told you. The Minister has taken up the issue of a supplementary decision because it is required to do so by a decision of the Constitutional Court. It will be followed by a law to be dealt with by the National Assembly. And I said, as Prime Minister of the Government, I allow the possibility that, if the legal profession and the Ministry so find out, perhaps the issue of so-called compensations, if they were directly linked to the act itself, the deletion might also be regulated by relief.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Procedural Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I don't think you've answered most of my questions, Mr President. The answers, however, rightly call for a discussion of this question by this Assembly because there was some confusion or ambiguity in this answer. It is not true that the decision of the Constitutional Court at point 8 of the decision of 3 April 2003 requires the Minister of the Interior to issue decisions. This was said by nine top legal experts, to mention only some, Prof. Dr. Igor Kavčič, Prof. Dr. Tone Jerovšek, Prof. Dr. Franci Grad and many others who, in relation to the direct enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court's decision of 3 April 2006 on the manner in which Minister Katarina Kresal did so has been negatively defined, as they do not see in the decision the direct basis for issuing administrative decisions to the so-called deleted. A law is needed, and you, Mr President, know this very well, because for him, for a constitutional law, you have even taken the stand. The decision of the Constitutional Court is not the only one that has not been implemented, but at least eight others. But only in this regard has hastened, and sooner than in the hundreds of days there has been a time to make a decision that does not mean to settle this issue but introduces new complications and definitive arrangements translate into indefinite time in the future. That it is the basis for compensations that will significantly endanger public finances during the period when people lose their jobs day after day and do not know what will happen to their pensions tomorrow. The Slovenian Democratic Party has recently reintroduced a proposal for a constitutional law on the basis of which it would seek solutions that would enable the final settlement of this issue in a way that would not endanger public finances, subject to individual treatment, and in a way that would prevent those who have speculated from applying compensation to those who have actually been affected. It is not to be forgotten that you yourself mentioned that decisions were already being issued by Dr. Rada Bohinca at the time of your party member, but that the minister stopped because he found that he was doing the wrong thing. It is important not to forget the 2004 referendum on the so-called technical law deleted, in which 95% of citizens and citizens voted to come to this law. Half a million Slovenians and Slovenians [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u40	Mr. Blackach, it's time for a procedural proposal, if you have one.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u41	I still have half a minute, thank you, Mr. President. I think that this is a question which the public has shared and lack of information, and it is therefore appropriate and urgent that different views face the public in the context of the discussion of the Government's replies. I therefore propose that, on the basis of Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly at the next meeting, we hold a discussion on the response of the President of the Government to my questions. I expect respectable colleagues and colleagues that you will all support this proposal, that this is the only way to deal with this issue definitively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the second meeting of the Assembly, first of all [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me, I also give the floor to Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem to ask the President of the Government a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u43	Thank you very much for your word. Nice hello to you all! Dear Mr Borut Pahor, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Yesterday, 100 days have passed since the ministerial team with you took responsibility for running the country. It is a practice that the first 100 days are intended to take on leadership, knowledge and introduction, as well as to review and evaluate the heritage that awaits the Government and individual ministers. At the time of the government's launch, the crisis economic situation and a number of other problems and strategic issues did not allow for such deployment. You've given up 100 days of your own. It is interesting, however, that the opposition took this into account and submitted the first interpolation before that period passed. Opinions on the functioning of the Government in the first 100 days are shared. In the Group of Members, we do assess that some of the criticisms are understandable, but they concern less important matters, such as your choice of lower co-workers and your way of working with the opposition, and perhaps a less imaginative consensus policy. However, we believe that, after some understandable initial setbacks, the Government has adopted some good and courageous solutions. We particularly support consistency in the application of the rule of law and the implementation of Constitutional Court decisions, cooperation with the social partners and agreements on wage measures in the public sector. We are also pleased with the last measures introduced by the Government and proposed at the 2009 budget rebalancing, by which it tries to look with prudence and ingenuity for solutions to overcome the crisis and financial embarrassment in the budget. For crisis measures, €610 million will be spent, and we are particularly pleased that most of these funds will be aimed at creating new jobs and promoting technological development and research. We also welcome savings in the area of defence. It is not to be forgotten, however, that the Government was faced with the fact that, in 2009, it had to seek EUR 590 million for financially unfunded pre-election promises. It is also worrying that they will significantly increase the EU's commitment funds, and this is also the reason for the poor use of EU funds. Mr President: How do you assess the work of the Government in these three months, in particular the measures proposed to mitigate the economic crisis? What effects do you expect from these measures?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u45	Colleagues and friends who know me better know that I rarely say that I'm completely satisfied with what I've done, because I'm always sure things can be done even better. And if I can say that if the first 100 days were related to some very difficult time in which the government had to consolidate itself simultaneously and regulate the economic and social crisis immediately, I am optimistic about the next 100 days when this flight of the coalition and the government will allow for a much better decision on behalf of this country and its people. So, it has already been mentioned that we have adopted the first package of measures, we have already discussed the Law on Subsidisation of Working Time today. We have adopted a second package of measures with a developmental orientation. In these 100 days, we have submitted to the National Assembly the balance of the budget, which is development-oriented. Of course, he has his social note, we must be careful about the social cohesion of society. But if I follow the optimism of the Finance Minister, the budget rebalancing can mean the start of some developmental conversion in Slovenia in the second half of this year and the beginning of next year. And I think that optimism is appropriate in the light of some of the successful consequences of well-planned and targeted measures. Not only that, but in these 100 days, the government has been tested for social dialogue. We've faced the fact. The collective contract for the public sector was signed at a time of economic conditions and should be implemented in a time of so-called recession. The government immediately approached social dialogue and I think Minister Krebs and her team have done a very good job. And although it seemed almost impossible at first to reach agreement with the public sector unions, this has been achieved and, I will say, enabled us to save 100 million for this money to go into development stimuli this year. Moreover, at this time the government has set a new standard. It's a standard for human resources policy. Let our colleagues in the opposition say anything, and I am not saying that any criticism is not justified, but the fact that we have set a new standard of human resources policy is fundamental. I think it has become quite clear that with the Human Rights Commission, which is the consultative body of the Government, we have made it impossible to have political appetites especially for the parties who are in power, for other lobbying, for other pressure groups and for individuals, and for the governments who will come after us, they will probably have to follow this standard, because it means a qualitative increase in the decisions of the Government to appoint capable people to specific areas. We will continue to foster social dialogue, very strongly, and we will look at the social distress of the people. For the second half of March, I plan the first development dialogue, I would like, with everyone with whom we have now had bilateral talks, from trade unions, employers, NGOs, universities, the Academy of Science, to examine how this arc of measures we have taken back. Do they actually accept it well? Where are the reviews? And we will probably already announce some structural changes for the future and, within this first and further developmental dialogue, we would like to achieve, as I said in the inaugural speech, not least with all of you here in the National Assembly, some new development consensus for the future. With regard to the first 100 days, despite some things that have caused too much public attention in subjects that are not as important as you yourself said, the government has rightly decided to focus on the country's strategic interests. I think she regulated them successfully. As it is said, it is not just us who turn back and ask if everything was done perfectly. I was on the Council of the European Union yesterday, and I could see that all my colleagues, all the heads of government, including those governments that were very quick in early September, October, with financial reliefs; and this resulted in a budget deficit; they were trying to put out the fire that happened, today they found that these measures had not been taken. We didn't panic, we acted with thought. We have set up an anti-crisis group, and today, together with some other colleagues, the presidents of governments, we can see that the budget rebalancing will bring a deficit of less than 3%, which is still tolerable for us. For if the budget deficit were substantially increased because of trying to help the economy, it would not help, it would burden the generations behind us; this debt should be repaid; so we stick to the limitations that have been given to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I ask you a further question, Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u47	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. President. With regard to the evaluation of the Government's operation, a particularly receptive statement by Mr Janez Janša was among the critics, citing that staff exchanges "have reached a huge dimension immediately at the beginning of the mandate". In doing so, it is interesting that the former ruling party’s staff counter does not measure or record anything in relation to more than 100 senior and other former government civil servants, whom, just before the end of the term of office of the previous government, has kindly employed as public servants for an indefinite period of time. We have also been informed that more than 100 former politicians and employees of the defeated coalition would be employed in some para-state companies, such as Eles and Slovenian Railways. In Eles alone, for example, a human resources programme for the employment of nearly 200 new people was prepared, which the Supervisory Board had to stop immediately at the beginning. Mr President, you were talking about a new human resources policy and a new way that this government has set itself up, so I would like to ask: How do you comment on this statement and how do you comment on the human resources counter on the opposition party's websites?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u48	Please, Mr. President, the government of Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u49	Already in my first performances as well as in the future, you will see that I have never been among those, and I will not, who are trying to solve the problems that we have received in order to solve them, bear the responsibility of the previous governments. Nor in this case, Mrs Zalokar Orazem, when it comes to, I think, unjustified criticism by the opposition at the expense of the new government's human resources policy. I think that what I have promised in my capacity as party president and as Prime Minister of the Government at the outset, the Government is very consistent. On the one hand, I have to give to some extent the sovereignty of certain decisions in the hands of the competent ministers to create a working environment that allows them to carry out their work normally. Finally, they are responsible for this work to this high congregation. But my ministers and ministers will be able to confirm that we have twice considered every human resources decision before taking it. Aware of the danger that has come immediately from the beginning - there have also been some misunderstandings; I have already said this. The inability of consolidation, which is common during the first hundred days, did not allow for some peaceful days. Because right at the beginning of the mandate, we were aware of what would happen if we did not change the practice of the previous governments, so to speak, we decided on a new standard. I think the positive repercussions of this standard that we have introduced will only show up. Make sure any client's human resources counter shows what it shows. I'm glad the public is paying attention to the fulfillment of promises. I didn't say we wouldn't replace anyone. All I have said is that the new government will strive to ensure that there will be no political rematch in human resources policy, and it has not been in this mandate. I said that we will try to establish instruments where the best will be able to get to the positions where they will do their best work, whether they are "yours" or "ours". And we stick to that principle. That's why we set up KAS. I think he's turned out to be a good institution so far. And I think it's okay to go this way. In short, I do not mind if the public closely monitors what is happening in this most sensitive policy area, this is the management of human resources, which are probably our most important comparative advantage for the development of Slovenia. We need each other here. Once again, without exclusion, by encouraging those people who know and know whether they are "yours" or "ours". And this government managed something that the previous one didn't. And I hope she can keep it up in that rhythm, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u50	Thank you very much. We turn to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 2nd meeting of the Assembly, to the reply of the Minister without a resource responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, Dr. Boštjan Žekša. First of all, on the questions raised by Mr Sreč Friend concerning the degradation of the rights of the Slovenian minority in Italy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u51	Mr. President, Madam Members, Members of Parliament! Regarding the situation of Slovenians, Slovenian minorities in Italy would not agree that their situation is rapidly deteriorating. If we look at the longer time scale, 30 years, 20 years, their position seems to be improving. Of course, the situation is not improving stable, evenly, but we have fluctuations. This year there was a threat, the possibility that the financing of the Slovenian minority in Italy would be reduced. However, with various actions, interventions, talks, petitions, the Slovenian Government managed to achieve this reduction. This does not mean that the situation is finally resolved, but definitive solutions, in my view, are not. But if they are, they have some kind of ominous accent. The question was also raised with regard to the television signal in our place, especially in Venice, where it is not really regulated. A lot of efforts have been made to make this work out. The current technical excuse, for example, is that, in the field of air signals, it is impossible to cover, both on our side, due to the pervasiveness of the entire part of the territory where the Slovenians live. On the other hand, it is claimed that frequencies are too busy and it would be difficult to reach a specific network of Slovenian broadcasters in Italy. Therefore, in our opinion, the introductory digitisation of television signals, which will take place in Slovenia in a few years, is linked to satellite transmissions and related to the facilitation of the purchase of converters, which will also be necessary for us in Slovenia, in order to make it possible for Slovenians, in place, to watch the Slovenian programme in order to achieve this. The problems of the Slovenian minority in Hungary were also mentioned. These problems will also seem to be resolved at present, and this is, of course, a significantly smaller part than the previously mentioned small Italian part. There are longer-term problems here, because there are simply no available personnel that would professionally cover, say, museum activity, cultural activity, so there will be a need for closer cooperation of Slovenian cultural organisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Now, however, the answer to Mr Guid Kres's question regarding the functioning of the Galeb Editorial Office and the book editions from Trieste. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u53	Thank you very much again. The Office for Slovenians, in place and around the world, is aware that the preservation of Slovenian language, Slovenian culture in place of the first priority, so we support these activities within our capabilities. In particular, the Galeb magazine, which publishes children’s periodicals, was mentioned in the question. We, on the Slovenian side, have been fairly stable in supporting it; we have been giving it for the magazine every year for the last sixty-six thousand years, seventy-seven thousand euros. For book editions a little less, but this depends on the invitation to tender, which is thus assessed by both roof organisations in Italy. That way there's no fall on our side. It should be noted, however, that this publishing house is a business entity in Italy, that it is therefore also financed by the Italian State and also has market revenues. As we say, our contribution is not diminishing. In view of the financing developments in Italy, public funding will also not be reduced. What is the market impact of this crisis on the company itself? As it is said, there will be no reduction in funds this year, which has threatened to do so. If, however, we should probably reorganise our contribution, redirect it, maybe increase it, but in our opinion it would be wrong to build the so-called single cultural space only by Slovenian means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thank you. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister without a resource responsible for development and European affairs. Please, Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of the mandate, the government had two possible approaches in dealing with financial situations and increasingly in the real sector with the so-called financial and economic crisis. One approach is that, with economic burdens, particularly by reducing taxes, it would encourage those pulsating parts in order, at the same time as measures, to encourage the lending of these companies in order to continue with ambitious plans, while at the same time encouraging new investments in important national infrastructure of long-term importance. The second approach was to promote the work through such and other subsidies and to also, indirectly, through institutions, state and parastatal institutions, through calls for action in the real sector and the financial sector. The government has chosen a second approach. This is what is called an approach when it does not go directly, but it empowers various institutions to do so. Among other things, the amendment of the SID Bank Act, the Slovenian Export and Development Bank, is a measure in this direction, where, in fact, the balance sheet is recapitalised by the Bank and this bank will promote and replace something that the banking sector should do through the credit financial instrument. This, of course, raises certain risks and therefore my question of departure. There is evidence that the government is going against the economy with some parallel budget, in such a way that it will not have some serious control over these resources and the intention of using them. Of course, control over public finances is also a parliamentary oversight. To find out who, for what purposes, and how much money went through. It is also best that the same rules apply to the needs of the economy and the financial sector. For this reason, I am particularly interested in: Will the Government, and will Parliament also have at its disposal data on how much, for what purpose, has been allocated under what criteria also the funds allocated by the SID Bank?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz the Crusader. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u57	Thank you so much for asking. The Slovenian Export-Development Company was created as a Slovenian Export Bank, conceived primarily as an insurance company for non-market risk insurance in our important export markets. In this respect, there was a copy of similar insurance companies such as Hermes, Jubmes and so on. With a very successful work, it then developed into an insurance company of a different type, it is said that the insurance of the mercillal risks to the export bank, the bank which credited the export transactions. At the initiative of the electoral debate, Parliament has also transformed it into a development bank in its previous composition and has given it considerable powers to promote Slovenian development as a development bank. In the current mandate and because of the financial crisis, one of the measures to address the consequences of this crisis or to mitigate it until the crisis in our export markets ends, including the recapitalisation of the Slovenian Export and Development Bank for EUR 160 million, totalling EUR 300 million. This will enable her to additionally engage credits in those parts where she acts as a bank. If we look at the control of its business, then in those parts where it acts as an insurance company or where it provides non-market risk, the Ministry of Finance establishes full control. This also creates in the budget of certain reserves, we call them security reserves and special security reserves, from which the potential damage that has occurred in these areas is then reimbursed. The management of the Slovenian Export and Development Bank is controlled here directly through the Directorates of our Ministry and through the Non-market Risk Insurance Commission, where there are also representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Bank of Slovenia. The supervision of the banking business of the Slovenian Export Company, which is guaranteed by the State, is carried out by Banka Slovenije, the Insurance Supervisory Agency where the Insurance Agency for the Market in Securities is located, and by the Supervisory Board, which is established under the current law, consisting of a whole range of ministers primarily responsible for economic and development issues and also several experts. In the new law, we will form a completely expert supervisory council, while we will transform the ministerial assembly into a world of Slovenian export and development banks. In the banking business, the Slovenian Export-Development Bank must comply with the rules of safe operation, the appropriate spread of its plasma and the placement of funds where the borrowers are eligible, and we can expect that the funds will actually return. It is not possible to pretend that some credits will not be paid in full at this time, as soon as possible that one of the credits is such that the borrower is in economic difficulties later on. And there will also be some new credits that will have to be written off. However, in most cases, the Slovenian Export Development Bank will operate in particular in areas where it will support the introduction of new technologies and new products of new companies, growth of enterprises, all that the private sector and private banks have to a lesser extent encouraged by, say, fear of increased risks. This is, for example, a market niche of the Slovenian Export and Development Bank and control of its business is quite solid and is taking place by several institutions. Whether it is possible for Parliament to directly control the operation of such a bank is an open question. I do not think that this high assembly is properly structured for this. I guess I should have set up some special working bodies. In any event, it can obtain reports and then, on the basis of these reports, determine whether the operation is successful or not. I would add that this bank has played an extremely important role in releasing a credit crunch or in eliminating a credit crunch in recent months. It has proved to be fast and effective not only in the use of funds, but also in controlling their placement and is now working successfully on the global capital market.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The additional question is mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Of course, I cannot be satisfied with this answer at this stage, but only after this supplementary question. My supplementary question is as follows. Parliament has a Commission to oversee public finances. Parliament is competent to oversee the use of public finances in many segments of the state budget and so on. I now have the suspicion that the Slovenian Export and Development Bank, which is one hundred percent state-owned, is said to be a parallel state institution, such as the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, such as the Public Agency for Entrepreneurship, foreign investment, such as the Technology Agency, and so on, that there will be no parliamentary control over the use, efficiency, economy, purpose of this spending, because it is a public resource, once again, it is a 100% public asset. This gives me reason to doubt whether this is actually some parallel budget to finance and support friendly businesses, people who will not actually have any control. He'll be in control. The supervision of the people proposed by the Minister for Development and European Awareness in the Supervisory Board will be carried out. He proposes, on a new proposal, 5 members of the supervisory board of this bank, 5 out of 7. It is said that the absolute supervision of one proposer until 300 million euros is spent. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that, pending the consideration of this point in the National Assembly, we find a solution to ensure parliamentary and government oversight of the functioning of this 100 per cent state bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Dr. France Križanič, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u61	I would certainly agree that parliamentary control of all public funds is necessary and possible and can take place within the framework of legal powers. Professional supervision, supervision of individual transactions is carried out in accordance with certain professional logics, as exercised by the supervisory councils and audit institutes. If Parliament takes this right, it must adopt an appropriate law so that Members can go so far as to control individual transactions. I think it's beyond that control. But if it isn't, then of course I don't mind. By now, they had been businesses that were mildly inadequate. But I don't think this can be completely avoided under such circumstances. Sooner or later, there's some kind of business, some kind of credit that doesn't give the expected results, has to be extended and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u62	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u63	Mr President, if you would not then interrupt me, I would suggest, on the basis of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, paragraph 2 of this Article, that a broader discussion be held on this question at the forthcoming meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u64	There'll be no misunderstanding. He had two and a half minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u65	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u66	I think there's another two minutes, twenty or thirty, that the Minister without a developmental pillar will answer, and then you'll be the one to put it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would only like to respond briefly to the two irregularities that Mr Vizjak has mentioned. It is not a matter of public funding when it comes to the capital of this institution, on which this institution can normally rent funding resources like all other financial organisations. However, it is public funds when it comes to the State guarantees of these institutions to cover intangible or non-market risks. At that time, of course, it is public funds which are based on the fact that this institution performs certain tasks on behalf of and on behalf of the State. This bank does not perform its basic functions on behalf and on behalf of the State, but on its own behalf and on its own account. That's why he has the capital, he has the authorities controlling this institution. I think it's much better if the institute is supervised by professionals, not by officials. With regard to your constant dilemma about who proposes something, only that anyone can propose, but the Government will of course decide on it. When the Government decides, these members of the Supervisory Board are financially responsible for their activities as members of the Supervisory Board and it is naive to expect that the proposal will have a decisive impact on how such an institution will work. It's about control, isn't it? With regard to the supervision of that work carried out by this institution on behalf of and on behalf of the State, the supervision of the Public Finance Commission of the National Assembly has already been in force since that institution has been acting solely in this function, and in the second part the basic supervision is carried out by that institution which is in charge of this by virtue of the Banking Act, because that bank is operating under the Bank of Slovenia, except for two exceptions, and its functions are also controlled by other supervisory institutions such as the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance Agency in transactions carried out by that institution. If this institution does any business on behalf of and on behalf of the State, and this is the case, if a law is passed that will come to Parliament not only for the SID, but also for guarantees that can be given to banks on the basis of law, then Parliament has, in this respect, as you have mentioned, its powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mag. A viscous, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u69	One more time. On the basis of Article 246 of the second paragraph, I propose that a broader discussion be held on this reply and that this proposal be decided at this meeting. Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure lays down very clearly the powers of the Commission to monitor public finances. It has more than the authority to control those things that an institution carries out on behalf and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to the State budget, the Commission monitors the implementation of the financial plans and the regularity of the financial statements of public funds, public undertakings and institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. And the key is that even in the start, when the state recapitalises by public means, it certainly cannot recapitalise the Slovenian Export-Development Bank with what means. And this bank, this recapitalisation also allows these additional financial instruments that it can carry out as a bank or an insurance company. But it's public funds. And here you want to prove that someone will be able to dispose of these funds through classical parliamentary control, which gives a really big, big question and raises assumptions about the prudence, impartiality and effectiveness of the operation. Therefore, I do not think such a solution is appropriate that such a solution raises further doubts and opens up speculation about bias. Why does the Government not go directly and help directly through the budget, which would then be subject to appropriate supervision? No, the government has chosen an indirect route here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u70	Dear colleague Vizjak, do not be embroiled in explanation. The Minister and no one can answer. Don't argue, base your case.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u71	That's exactly what I'm doing, Madam President. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u72	vernacular [[....]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u73	I still have reason to believe that there should be a broader debate on this. [[...]] Because public finances are under threat. Public finances are at risk because they want and try through the side door, along the parallel road, to intervene in the financial and economic sectors past the budget. Even more doubts, as the Minister for Development says, are affecting me because, in fact, the Minister, who is not a finance minister, has taken control of the operation of this particular bank. I don't know a case where someone who isn't a finance minister would have control of the banking sector. I therefore propose that we vote on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u74	On the proposal of Mr Mag. Andrej Visiak, that the National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Finance and Minister for Development and European Affairs to his question, will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 3 March 2009, in the framework of the votes. I would like to point out to fellow Members and Members that, on the basis of why they are proposing a debate, they do not derail with the Government because it cannot respond, as it will be possible to discuss this in the debate if it is adopted. Mr Mirko Brulc will ask the Minister of Justice a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u75	Hello, everyone! In the next brief case, I want to show you how confidence in the judiciary is falling. An economic company wants to wind up on a regular basis and creditors have already proposed bankruptcy for it in November 2007. The Court has undertaken to verify the conditions for bankruptcy, but virtually nothing has happened. In August 2008, the company itself proposed an enforcement settlement procedure and at the same time adopted a decision on the regular liquidation and moved its seat to Ljubljana. The President of the Supervisory Board became the liquidation manager and became the competent Ljubljana District Court for the assessment of bankruptcy. But the judge of this court rejected the bankruptcy claim days ago. However, Minister, this judge has appointed the same person three times in recent years as a bankruptcy manager and, further, as an agent in the insolvency proceedings, the company has authorised a lawyer who is in the same court in seven cases a bankruptcy manager, including in proceedings conducted by the same judge. It is especially surprising, however, that creditors have failed with no exclusion procedure and have decided, after more than one year in the hearing room, that bankruptcy should not be introduced, which is exactly what society wants. Why does this society want bankruptcy? Because that would lose the chance to complete his privatisation. At the time of ownership in 1997, the company did not mention the ownership of the garage house and 150,000 square metres of land in the very centre of Nova Gorica. At the end of 2002 and at the beginning of 2003, the company made a compulsory settlement from which the debt was cleared. Garages and land were not subject to compulsory settlement. The enforcement settlement was legally approved on 11 May 2003. Three days later, however, the company, all the time the same people, began to apply for the book of silent property. So, ex-social property. Immediately after the registration, she charged all the assets with a free building right for 99 years granted to a new company, which she set up herself. But in the Budna village of Dolenjska, Šentjanž’s post office at the address house number 15/A grew 10 new companies. I ask you, Mr. Minister: What are you going to do to make people at least believe the courts? Unfortunately, the company I was talking about has a name. It is SGP Gorica, who once built Novo Gorica under the second leadership and with different social values. Her legal representative also has a famous name in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u76	Thank you. Please, Mr. Zalar Minister of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the words and thank you very much, Mr Member, for the question, although you have embarrassed me somewhat with the opening part of the question. It refers specifically to a specific case, and in this particular case, I can only tell you at this time that I have proposed to the President of the competent higher court to order official controls on this unfortunate case that you have mentioned. At the same time, in relation to another case, which you did not mention, and also raised a lot of dust in Slovenia, I invited the presidents of the higher courts to inform me of all the problems related to the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings and in particular to the supervision of the work of bankruptcy managers. Otherwise, because it concerns your question, which is more general. Let me remind you that it is not long ago that the National Assembly has adopted a new bankruptcy legislation that entered into force last January, and not entirely, but that it is still possible for transitional and final provisions to apply old legislation which, among other things, is intended to contribute to, as you said, greater confidence in, these procedures and the institutions that run these procedures and, in particular, to shorten these procedures. In particular, at the time of the financial crisis, this reduction in procedures can be particularly important. In this regard, let me tell you that the current rules nevertheless allow for significantly shorter procedures, starting with the fact that these proceedings can be led by individual judges, that simplified procedures for the publication of conclusions are no longer necessary for the claim test because this can be done in writing and so on. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Justice has already introduced changes and additions to the Financial Operations Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures in accordance with the Government's normative programme for this year, so that legislation can be further improved in this area. There are a number of types of improvements, in part to take account of case law, to adapt to the new law on fair procedure, partly to modernisation, particularly when it comes to information business, and partly to the work and engagement of bankruptcy managers. In order to monitor the effects of the current bankruptcy legislation, the Ministry of Justice plans to appoint a special expert group in the shortest possible time to verify and analyse the urgency and usefulness of any procedural act or event in such proceedings in order to be able to complete within the optimal time limits. At the same time, the Ministry plans to amend the Rules of Procedure, which will lay down time standards for bankruptcy and other proceedings, and will relate to the debt period in which the case is to be concluded, as well as to individual periods for the execution of urgent procedural actions in the proceedings. This will take into account some good practices that exist in courts in similar cases. The Ministry of Justice is also planning amendments to the law on fair procedure, as bankruptcy proceedings are known to be highly delayed in particular because often complex and long-term justice is brought about on disputed claims. In this regard, we intend to lay down, inter alia, the duty of the courts that, if they are already imposing orders to postpone them only for a certain period of time which may not be longer than three months, that the postponement for an indefinite period of time is not permissible, that it is mandatory to introduce a preparatory task which our law does not now know that the same courts conducting insolvency proceedings will also be competent for the resolution of justice and that all courts handling civil proceedings will be obliged to offer arbitration or mediation to the parties in the dispute. Finally, let me explain that we will also take into account comparative legal experience in this area. At the Council of Ministers of Justice in Brussels on Friday, it was decided that the next Council would consider, inter alia, the role of justice during the financial crisis. One of the areas that will be clearly exposed where the country has the opportunity to improve the situation is precisely the area of insolvency proceedings. A good example of this will be provided by the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will ask the Minister of Culture a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Dear Minister and other ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Independent media and within them autonomous editorial policy are of paramount importance for the democratic functioning of society and the control of ruling policies. The provision of democratic information standards is particularly important for the public institution Radiotelevision Slovenia, which is responsible for providing institutional autonomy and editorial independence. Unfortunately, after hundreds of days, the current government has shown that you do not choose resources and methods in order to ensure that you are obedient to the government media and to the obedient editors. In doing so, the public service Radiotelevision is by no means an exception. Madam Minister, the pressure on journalists, editors and editorial policy has recently been greatly increased by the government, your ministry and government parties, which in the case of Radiotelevision already shows that government parties want to turn public RTV into state television, which will obediently promote government policy and at the same time block the public's interests after objective information and control of government. That the pressures are extremely severe and that the orders from the power position are working is proving a fresh case. At the request of your client's press representative, really, the editor of the show was forced to immediately include your MP, Ivo Weigle, in the non-contact dialogue show Studio at 17. Such reckless and direct pressures have probably not yet taken place in the history of the public institution. It has now become clear behind the request of your party's President, Mr Golobic, who, with an ultimatum from Pahor, demanded that you lead the department that covers the media. So I ask you: Will you accept responsibility for the rightful autonomy of journalists and editors on the independence of the public office and on freedom of expression? Is it true that you are preparing an amendment to the RTV Act, which will allow effective government control of public Radio Television in a sophisticated way? Madam Minister, in your previous mandate, you have consistently requested a nominal reduction in the RTV contribution. You are now increasing it, and it is even more worrying that, according to available information, promotions are conditioned with an impact on editorial policy and expectations of supporting government policies and coalition parties. I ask: Is the subordination of the editorial policy of the public Radiotelevision to obstruct public interest after objective information and interference of the executive branch of the public administration in the functioning and operation of the public institution is part of the government's coordinated policy? Did the government also formally discuss this issue, or did the undemocratic tendencies of the party really manifest itself in the first place?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u80	Minister of Culture Majda Shirca Ravnikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u81	Mr Jerovšek, you will have to repeat half the questions because they are part of your performances, but not the facts, which is why I did not understand them. The ones you can understand, that. Desant on RTV Slovenia happened before, even when the Government did not hear RTV Slovenia's plea for four years, in order to increase its contribution due to problems in which there is also a poor economic situation in general due to lower advertising. Mr Janez Janša said last April that the RTV contribution can only be increased after the elections, because people can obviously get angry. And they are also now angry when we have proposed that, for justified reasons, the RTV contribution should be increased by one euro. If you do not like this, you will be here when the law on the implementation of the budget is dealt with, or you will reject it. We know that, without a doubt, these reasons are enough to allow RTV Slovenia autonomy, and this is a special way of paying, which is not directly linked to the Government, to manage in such a way that they survive in this crisis period and continue to do so with responsibility. As I say, you may reject the proposal. People will be happy because they say they do not want RTV Slovenia more expensive with a worse program. We ourselves know that in the past this contribution has not been raised due to the political promise made at the referendum that the new law will give us a cheaper and better RTV programme. But he's no better. Today speaks part of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, from Mr Grande, Mr Snoj and Kos, who addressed everyone, not only to me and the President of the Government, a letter that RTV Slovenia is commercialised and that this must be stopped. Mr Jančar also recently announced with great concern, when addressing the policy of worsening the situation on the Ars programme on RTV Slovenia, and said that he felt that on Radio Slovenia they did not fully understand the necessity for culture to be placed at the programme centre of its operation. And so on and so forth. As for the first part of the issue of awkwardness, if I understand correctly what happened with the phone call from the editor or the program manager, Studio at 17, with Mr. Wigel's return call, I find it difficult to define. In this place, both journalists have already responded. One way to explain that policies have several other options to explain their views. However, another journalistic society, with Mr Jančič, said that there must be a distinction between what is an expert explanation and what is not. Personally, I would never do that because I know that it is necessary to let go of the possibilities that the editor or editor imagines. But here you have to say that this indecisive, if I put "no" in your arms, this [[is not]] the decent invitation was not rejected by the editorial board. And as I read in the explanations and the contents of this Study at 17, Mr. Trošt, the moderator, said: "Because we did not seem to have a representative of some official Slovenian policy in this show, because, as we said at the beginning of the show, we did not get a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and we were unable to provide it, I assessed that this contribution could help our discussions." That is probably why Mr Wigel is involved, and anyone can judge whether it makes sense or not. Why did he get involved? Perhaps in order for the broadcast to be more professional, perhaps to discuss it today and to discuss it elsewhere, perhaps such circumstances have been given, or perhaps because the leader has already been told in, once again, "fear" that he will not meet a request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u82	Thank you very much. You want a follow-up question? You must apply for an additional question, please. Yes, here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have asked the previous Minister so many questions, I have asked myself to write out, but here you have refused with arrogance and ignorance to be part of my performances, while the value of freedom of the media and the autonomy of journalists is one of the most important, ensuring democratic development. And, of course, you've practically avoided all the answers. The fact that it is a public institution of obvious self-censorship and fear is clear from specific cases. You've explained them as awkwardness and hearing the call. You know, it wouldn't be rude to invite an editor if it weren't for self-censorship and pressure. There's a lot more pressure than that. Look, Studio City was in the previous term with a lot of opposition. I believe in journalists and editors that they would want such an act of opposition to remain, but now they are practically even more interlocutors who belong to your bloc. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] And because of this, I ask you, will you, as Minister, be responsible for the field of media, editors and journalists for the pressure on them? Will it be withdrawn indirectly to the editors to allow as much space as possible and to appear for the ticket holders for the European elections of three government parties? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] By complying with this guidance in the case of some future candidates, it is already visible, observed and improved. [[...]] This is a concrete case. It's a campaign before the official campaign and it's a grave abuse. [[...]] [[The microphone's off.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, would you like to respond? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u85	I repeat that I do not have this information that you have put on the agenda, and I find it difficult to comment on it, because you obviously have more access to some. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] No, I don't! [[...]] I don't have one. But with one thing you said at the outset, I agree - that the world is autonomy. Autonomy is a world and therefore also in the field of freedom of expression and the media. As a result, at least two laws will be amended and the third will regulate the status of the Slovenian Press Agency, which now has inappropriate arrangements. Both media laws, both RTV Slovenia and the media law, will also be amended in areas where this autonomy is not sufficiently regulated, where it hampers the possible improvement of media development and also protects journalistic and editorial autonomy. This law has proved to be, when I speak of RTV Slovenia, as a powerless and impossible institution itself, which I say could not even arrange an RTV contribution at the time of the time. We know that this is a famous article 31, which discusses the possibility of amending the RTV contribution if there are economic reasons for it, but by September of that year for the following year. That's why we're going to ZIPRO now. There is also a need for change in media law in those parts where it speaks of the autonomy of regulation, which, as I say, does not have sufficient rules. And even in the part where public servants are recognized as journalists, and it's not good to keep it that way. There will be a lot of people participating in this debate, we have invited some of them, and most of them have already participated at the time of the adoption of the law and have shown dissatisfaction in everyday life and also in theory, which is why it has already been written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jerovšek, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u87	Thank you very much. With the Minister's reply, I am in no way satisfied and can not be satisfied, because it is an extremely important area and value, which, despite the fact that the ruling coalition still has such interests, is also promoting these candidates for European elections, by ordering the media to produce them as much as possible before the campaign, it is not possible to agree with these reasons. And, Madam Minister, you have also changed in your answers. In your previous term, you've been looking for media freedom, press autonomy, now you're moving around, and you don't want to know about these things. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u88	Comrade Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u89	That's why, of course. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u90	Please, don't argue. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u91	I propose that a broad debate be held on the lack of response of the Minister, on the intentions of the current Government, on how to subordinate the media, how to campaign for its candidates before the campaign for European elections. [[...]] See, these examples, when the advisor of the SD Group appears on the most viewed show and represent him as an independent publicist, clearly shows that journalists and editors are in fear. This process of violence, the rightful to autonomy, must be stopped. In fact, it is a desant, which is carried out by the current government by perfidious methods of back pressure and threat, and the Minister is actively involved in this, otherwise she would not have been so moved in her responses. You've been a journalist, and you probably know what it's like to work for journalists under such harsh conditions when they have to be afraid for every word, when they have to ask for every editorial program. I think three months of the government's rule has shown that you unscrupulously want to implement this pressure program on the public administration of RTV and journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u92	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Jerovska to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Culture to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 3 March 2009, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will ask the question of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! For some time some media have been reporting extensively on the so-called "dream mortgage loan of Austrian banks" affair with us. Still, in the public eye, it's like this affair that's a little weird, no one wants to do it and doesn't want to do it. Young farmers burdened by their parents’ debts, more than 10 years old, are no longer able to pay these bank loans, as they have been paying only interest for years without touching the principal. This situation forces them to reprogram or hire new loans, and many have already carried out executions and are without houses and fields. The executions take place in Pomurje, Ptujska and Celje, and are also about Koroška. Interestingly, these loans are also offered by a number of police officers, as they are expected to be offered even by their union, and by some judges. In the background, there is a strange story, where the Slovenian lawyer is the official legal representative of the Austrian bank, while his wife is together with the director of the same bank, the Austrian bank, the owner of the real estate company, who buys these seized properties at auctions. Because it's a strange story, which is strange, and because it involves individuals, lawyers and judges, and it's actually under your department, I ask you: Are you familiar with these loans and this strangely connected circle of people? Are there any investigations or procedures in place concerning these loans? If not, why not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u95	Thank you very much. This is a matter of legitimate concern. I must explain that the Ministry of Justice does not have any other information other than those made available in the media and those resulting from your question. We also do not know that Slovenian judges would be involved in this case. But in the case of the lawyer's involvement, like you probably did, we learned from the media. However, because this case, as I have said, is a legitimate concern, I have asked the State Attorney's Office to provide information on whether they are conducting any proceedings at the prosecution's office. The U.S. Attorney's Office has no information on this. Today, this has been checked in the competent district state prosecutions in Ptuj and Murska Sobota, but they also have no criminal charges against these two prosecutors and do not conduct any proceedings. In this regard, the Prosecutor's Office in its explanation to the Ministry of Justice points out that the State Prosecutor's Office is not an authority to detect that this is the police and may provide more specific information in this regard as the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of the Interior, Katarina Kresal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Thank you for the questions. The police informed me that it was informed of a series of connected persons regarding individual loans from individual Austrian banks. In this context, police conduct certain activities under the law on criminal proceedings in the forecasting process. The police, however, also asked the State Prosecutor's Office for an expert opinion on the legal nature of the transactions mentioned above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Please, supplemental question, mag. It's a crane.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Actually, it's not really a question. My question, in fact, was a kind of initiative to take a closer look at these issues. I would like to give you a concrete example of a loan of EUR 25 000, EUR 34 000 has already been repaid and EUR 72 000 is to be owed. This case has already been closed. The house and the fields were sold for 93 000 euros, while the value of 186,000 euros was estimated. Of course, I am aware that each individual who rents a loan has certainly been careless or in any way reckless in these cases. Yet, as I mentioned earlier, there are some strange stories behind it. I'd like to mention at least two more facts. In fact, this bank, which is not actually a real bank, but it is a cooperative relationship in Austria, should not even have a bank notification when it has already offered these loans in Slovenia. Moreover, it is also mentioned that the contracts concluded in Austria under Austrian law cannot and are not based on Slovenian legislation, as well as loans have come to our country with cash transfers, i.e. through our banks and without the notification of borrowers of the introduction of so-called dry cash into the country. For illustration only, the country's cash entry limit is EUR 25,000. My desire is, above all, an incentive to look at why this matter has taken place, given that it is of great scale, some hundred such cases speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister and Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister of Health, Mr. Miklavčič. A few months ago, the Ministry of Health granted public powers in the field of physical therapy to the Chamber of Physiotherapists of Slovenia. One of the legal conditions enabling such distribution is also the representativeness of such an institution. According to me, the Chamber of Physiotherapists of Slovenia does not combine the prescribed number of physiotherapists, according to 60%. To illustrate, in Slovenia there are little less than 1000 physiotherapists, in our parliamentary group, and I believe that you, too, have signed statements by physiotherapists daily, that they are not members of the chamber and that they are members of another organisation, that is, the Association of Physiotherapists with a long tradition and professional ties in the Slovenian educational system and also in the international space, that therefore more than a hundred physiotherapists in Slovenia are not members of this chamber. In a theoretical way, we can calculate that the physical therapeutic chamber is not representative in this area. I wonder: How did you give this institution public authority in the field of physiotherapy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u103	Dear President, honourable Members! I'd like to answer that question because the problem I've been dealing with has been in the Ministry for two months. We had a joint meeting between the P.I. and the P.I. The meeting was very hot and tense. They all came to the first meeting with the lawyers. Much effort has been made to find a solution here. However, in all the conversations that were few, I was not successful in this solution. That's the last two months of my activity. But the facts are as follows. By decision, the Ministry of Health gave the Chamber of Physicotherapy of Slovenia the public authority to carry out the tasks in the field of physical therapy on 1. 9. 2005. In the context of that decision, the Slovenian Physiotherapists' Chamber may, on the basis of a public mandate granted, carry out the tasks of maintaining a register for operators in the field of physiotherapy, planning specialisations and specialist examinations, carrying out professional supervision by consulting and issuing, extending and withdrawing licences to operators in the field of physiotherapy. In the procedure for the selection of candidates for the award of a public invitation to tender, it was found that the Chamber of Physiotherapists of Slovenia had demonstrated compliance with the law and the tendering documentation of the conditions laid down for the award of a public authorisation. I'm talking about date one. 9. 2005. The above-mentioned decision was appealed by an unelected party in the procedure of the Association of Physicotherapists of Slovenia, a professional association. The Ministry of Health shall, for the reasons set out in points 1 and 5 of Article 260 of the General Administrative Procedure Act, by decision of 29. 9. 2005 resumed the procedure. The decision to renew the selection procedure for the award of public authority in the field of physical therapy was appealed by the Chamber of Physiotherapists of Slovenia. In both claims, the Administrative Court ruled in its judgment of 8. 11. 2007 The Ministry of Health had to take into account only the statements on the membership of physiotherapists in the Association of Physiotherapists of Slovenia, a professional association with which it was available on day 29. 9. 2005 and were dated up to and including 29. 9. 2005. Among the above, the court ordered that the Ministry should only verify those persons who were declared to have been 30. 6. 2005 members of the first accused party. The Ministry carried out an order from the Administrative Court in the judgment referred to above and, in accordance with the direct reference of the Court, assessed the contested declarations as insufficient for the decision to reopen the proceedings. The decision by which the Ministry gave a public mandate in the field of physiotherapy to the Chamber of Physiotherapists of Slovenia has become legal and definitive. However, the Ministry is obliged to exercise it in accordance with its legal powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I'm asking you a further question. Mr. Vito Rozej, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u105	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I have no doubt that the Ministry of Health has all the formal reasons to complete the procedure as it began in 2005. What I asked you, in fact, were the substantive reasons for such a decision, if we know that in Slovenia there are about nine hundred and eighty physiotherapists, that there are at least six fifteen, if not more written statements that they are not members of the Chamber, then perhaps at that time some substantive reasons have changed. I would also like to know, of course, why two legal persons should not be the holder of these powers. And also, because I believe that you, like the daughter of the president of the physical therapists' chamber, the well-respected Minister of Kresalov, believe that the only right path is the legal path, how do you comment on the information that the chamber charges some of its services to non-members higher than members, which is probably not meant to be the holder of public powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u106	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you very much for that. I am also aware of this problem and I must tell you that the Association of Physiotherapists of Slovenia has the same practice. They also charge their members less and charge non-members more. I have prepared a detailed letter to the Ministry and addressed it both to the Society and to the Chamber with a request and an appeal to calm the passions to negotiate and to charge each of its members and non-members the same amount. What the answer is, I don't know what to tell you right now. But I need to draw attention to the only solution I can see. Some of the problems have also been caused by the under-defined cases in the existing Law on Health Activities, the Government's programme is prepared to supplement the Health Act, where we will re-evaluate the competences and powers of both the Medical Chamber, the Medical Chamber and others. Thus, with the proposal for a new law that we wish to come to this assembly as soon as possible, we would try to clarify the matter in such a way as to avoid such or similar conflicts in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak will ask a question from the Parliament to the Secretary-General of the Government and the Minister of Finance. Please, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary-General, of course also Minister of Finance! With my parliamentary question I have to move back a little bit and say this: 4.10.2001 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision on the purchase of Falcon 900EX. What was unusual about that time was that the government had decided to get it out of the development programs of the defence forces. Immediately after that, we also received an answer, namely, a new cycle of development programmes was adopted and the action of the then defence minister was somehow normal. The invitation to purchase an aircraft was never published but an invitation was sent to the three producers. The public responded, as you know, to those who monitored the matter at the time, especially with the question of how much this aircraft will cost and how much taxpayers will pay for it. The government was concealing the real facts, saying, in particular, its secretary-general was talking about €35 million, and later journalists found out that he had silenced the tax, which means €42 million. Immediately thereafter, there was strong pressure on the public. The government has explained that we will also transport alleged wounded for the needs of the Ministry of Defence if this happens. However, on 27.6.2002, the Government decided to purchase the one for 7 million less instead of 35 million aircraft, called Falcon 2000EX. Let me just remind you that I am, because I can't even imagine how much money this is, on Adria's website today, and I realized that it costs so much for that latest plane with 86 seats, so you have a sense of how much the government was spending at the time. Of course, no one went to a press conference, nor did the then Secretary General of the Government. It was also a surprise that the then Prime Minister had stated that there was no need for a hangar and that the hangar was later built, namely, the contract was signed the day before the Government took the decision that public contracts would no longer be for that year. I ask, given that the contract expired, that the plane was leased, as we know that we received relatively little for it: How is it now with those conclusions of the government? Various numbers are emerging - the plane is garaged. How much do we pay for this to park it in the United States? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u110	Mr. Secretary General of the Government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for asking Ambassador Gorenak. I am sorry that this reference to facts from the past did not include facts in the past four years. If either you, as former Secretary of State or Secretary-General of the Government I have succeeded, were to address this issue, then at the end of the previous term the story with Falcon 2000EX would have been peacefully concluded in any form. That's how 8 of us are. 12. the lessee has notified that it does not intend to extend the contract. The government has taken a real opportunity analysis, and it is of course necessary to bear in mind that in 2007 and 2008, when the global aviation market had a conjuncture, the former government did not decide, for example, to sell this aircraft, if, of course, you are assessing that it was such a major problem. The situation is as follows: the tenant cancelled the contract. We could bring the plane to Slovenia immediately, but this would mean a pre-determined decision to use the plane in Slovenia or Slovenia to recapitalise it. This does not allow for an eventual extension of the broadcast of an aircraft on the American market, which is most appropriate for these aircraft. Therefore, before the public tender was launched, and when it is in a hurry, then usually negotiations are not good, we decided to take over and park the aircraft in America after the end of February. The Minister of Finance will tell you exactly how much this garage condition, including insurance. Currently there are three options: One is to keep the aircraft owned by the Republic of Slovenia and to be leased or managed by a Slovenian operator for many years, there are options. The second option is to recapitalise it to the Slovenian air carrier in the form of recapitalisation with a real input. And then there's the third option, that's the sale. The problem of sales is, as I said earlier, that the market has fallen and this plane would not get as much as an estimate of its value or at least a substitute value, because its market value is now very low. There is also one possibility that this aircraft would eventually use the Slovenian Army, but it would not comment too much. The situation is now such that the Government will consider these three options at one of the next meetings, and will also compile the costs per hour of use of such an aircraft, which is a comparative option. On this basis, it will then decide: first of all for a public tender, if the invitation to tender fails, then for a possible recapitalisation with a real injection. And we'll keep the public informed of that in time. However, the Minister will present the financial effects.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u112	Mr. Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Your Honor! According to the decision to park the aircraft, the following costs have been incurred: $7,300 a month costs only garages, $35,651 and 77 cents costs insurance, which will expire on June 5th, the remaining costs and costs of the team, says the airline ticket, stay, check and charge, have totaled so much that the total amount converted into euro, EUR 110,309 and EUR 58 for the first half of the year. By then, a solution would have been found, so that the plane would have gone back into service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u115	I'm not gonna argue with the secretary-general, I think eight. 12. 2008 I did not sit in the government palace, but you, because you said it was 8. 12. 2008 came an answer on the cancellation of this case. However, the government of Janez Janša left there, as we know, in November. Well, it wasn't possible. Some facts remain in this regard. The fact is, $27 million is an extraordinary price. There is also the fact that $125.000 is the rent price, which did not bring the desired effects on Slovenia and its budget after the missed investment as such, if we ignore it at all. The fact is, at that time, $7.5 million was paid and nothing more. There is also the fact that the country has been through all this time - the exception, of course, is the period of the previous government when the plane was leased, so that that plane at that time was not able to be transported back - the country and its budget lost an extremely large amount. However, I am afraid that there is another fact that you had on the table on January 22nd all the options you were talking about, Mr Secretary-General, that is to say renting, Adria and so on. All these facts exist. But we could have made up our minds. You'll obviously decide in six months, as long as the contract is concluded. In these six months, we will also pay the amount mentioned by the finance minister, multiplied by 6. That's why I'm asking you: Why the delay? Why not a faster government response in this area that would have a more positive impact on the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The amount of 110,309 is for the entire half of the year. We expect that there will be warming on the market and that, within a few months, it will be possible to find a solution so that the aircraft can move forward in a way that it will reimburse the costs of depreciation. At these costs, it has also been leased, so that we think that this investment will eventually be paid, regardless of the fact that it is a very difficult investment, because it is an extremely high-quality aircraft that allows transatlantic flights.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary General of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I would just like to say, with regard to this statement by the Secretary of State of Gorenak, that it is not true that the previous government did not realize this issue; finally, in the handover between me and the Secretary-General, Mr Predaric, this was one of the points. I asked him what they had done in the last four years to remedy the problem, except that they suffered the loss in the state budget you are talking about. And the answer was that nothing. Therefore, the current government formed a working group immediately after the 21st November and then after the first meeting. The options are not as simple as you think. I'm sure it would be something if I were to be equipped with a plane immediately, which did not happen in four years, almost a million euros would have to be invested in equipping the plane in order to get it across the Atlantic. This would lose the possibility of tendering on the largest market for Falcons 2000 X or similar commercial aircraft - we are talking, of course, about the American and Asian market. Thus, this matter is not so simple, and these hundred tens of thousands of euros include some of the costs that would arise in any case. If the plane were already in Slovenia, it would also be insurance. Let me tell you that the insurance of the aircraft is concluded with the Slovenian insurance company. That way, some of the costs would have been incurred in any case. The only exorbitant cost, if I may say so, is currently the cost of parking in the United States, but we have estimated that forty thousand dollars of semi-annual garage parking is cheaper than preventing the possibility that only the European market, which is known to be much smaller than the North American and Asian market, would be confined to the rental tender. We will proceed with the invitation to tender if the invitation to tender fails under the terms of the invitation to tender, then the next two steps will be followed. As I said, based on this comparison of hourly items, costs in any of these options will be decided rationally and effectively by the Government. But I regret that it happened too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak, would you like to propose a debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I'd only ask if you wouldn't interrupt me. Mr. Secretary-General, first of all, you said it was 8. The 12th was still Janša's government, and now you've told me I'm Secretary of State. I'm not a secretary of state, but I'm a member of the National Assembly. Accordingly, Mr Vice-President, there was also an answer. I can read those numbers in the paper; I want more than that. I therefore propose that we also discuss the Secretary-General's response in accordance with Article 264 and give the Secretary-General the opportunity to take a closer look at the numbers and when someone has been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow. The next question is Mrs Renata Brunskole, who will be asked by the Minister for Culture. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u123	Thank you very much. All present, especially representatives of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues! Gradac is situated in the area between all three Belarusian municipalities, Metliko, Črnomelj and Semič, and was built in the 13th or early 14th century. The castle complex, together with the castle park, was declared a cultural monument of national importance by the decree of the Republic of Slovenia in 1997. On the basis of the Act on the Ownership of Cultural Monuments in Social Property, published in the Official Journal in 1999, the castle Gradac became the property of the Republic of Slovenia. It is administered by law by the Ministry of Culture, which after presenting the plans to the countries of the Krajevna Community of Gradac and Municipality of Metlik two years ago ordered the production of project documentation for the renovation of this castle. This project was planned at the Ministry to apply to the invitation of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Development to acquire European funds with the envisaged investment funding of 85% of European funds and 15% of the Ministry of Culture. In October 2008, the Municipality of Metlika, on the initiative of the Municipal Council of the Municipality and the Regional Community of Gradac, addressed a question to the Ministry of Culture concerning potential investors and when a building permit for the renovation of the castle, which is owned by the State, will be obtained. In an interview with the Ministry of Culture, it was stated that several potential investors were interested in all castles owned by the Republic of Slovenia. A building permit is expected to be obtained at the end of 2008. I ask you, Madam Minister: What are the plans and timetables for the rebuilding of the Gradac Castle in the White landscape, perhaps again with the help of European funds or cultural tolar? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u124	Madam Minister for Culture has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u125	Thank you for asking. You are not the only one with such problems, and it is not only this castle that causes great concern to the ministry and the country as well as to the local communities. And problems because we have an extraordinary wealth, but we don't have resources, many times not just practices to bring all this to life. Some of this has been done in the past, but some of the castles in which the state invested before, say, ten, fifteen years ago, those stakes are now being undermined because they are rarely complete reconstructions. I would like to see the Ministry of Culture or any other sector simply turn into the best real estate agency capable of finding such tenants, managers and providing content. And if anything, I'm aware of the flaws, the problems, I'm dissatisfied with that. And also your case, a remarkable, beautiful castle, has been agreed in the past to be a reconstruction. They have found beautiful or are now being restored to beautiful baroque and classical frescoes. It has also been said in the past that the castle will be reconstructed by design. With the law on the provision of certain necessary cultural programmes, I think a million 321 000 euros are reserved for this. But we do know that this is already about the tail of the law, that is, about that part of the benefits that we couldn't make happen in the past, which means it's really a problem. And you helped in the congregation by saying that - I am talking about what was done in the past to help find the controllers or tenant who will take over the possibility that European funds, as you correctly identify, will restore this to 15% of the country's share. It's really bad to see that the money is there, in Europe, and there's no way to take it. I am even more afraid that this will always be harder because it is not only this case, but there are many others. Rihenberg, there's a buyer who doesn't trust that someone would buy a castle right now is huge among the people. They want to have room for public interest. This public interest must then be maintained further - if we are speaking, for example, about the assumption that investment would be made and made. Time is not on our side right now. As I say, time is running out because some other investors who may have been are disappearing. Maybe there's more speculators who buy it for low funds and then expect the local community or the state to simply do it. We have great practices abroad, really great, but we also have economically strong countries that have been able to implement these scratches. If you go to Spain - a chain of hotels. Well, your castle or our common castle was also designed for hotel services. And as we know, 174 000 in this case have already been used by structural resources to prepare documentation. Well, now we need a tenant. As I say, exceptional practice in Spain with a chain of accessible, high-quality hotel services in old castles that have revived and are in fact like a Trnuljica. In Slovenia, however, companies have also been restored somewhere, and I am talking about the Otočec case as a very good case of maintenance useful with good ones, and unfortunately many of these cases are still sleeping. And like I say, if anything, then we'll try to fix it here. But here we have to have many managers in culture, economists who don't exist, and also some job opportunities that we don't have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mrs. Renata Brunskole, request an additional reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I have asked you this question as a member of the National Assembly because in this area, in the White landscape, the initiative is also the initiative of the other Belarusian municipalities. In fact, in the immediate vicinity, less than a kilometer away, probably 800 meters away, there is also a sports airport where such five-star guests, who in this way also move in traffic, might be able to come. On the other hand, in preparing spatial plans for all three Belarusian municipalities, there is also a golf course and other infrastructure. In this direction we see also all three Belarusian mayors - and also wider, the Tourist Association of Slovenia - the possibility in connection with the cycling routes, the Kolpo River, which is all the way to Kočevje or Kostel and beyond. On the other hand, since this is a wine-growing area, it is such a potential, and in connection with this, we have also talked a lot about today that in the White Land there are certainly several hundred people who have lost their jobs in recent months. Here, too, we see an opportunity; on the other hand, we are talking about non-supplying or not making full use of European funds in the competent committees. That is why I have also decided, at the initiative of the other people, to ask you this question. Anyway, thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u128	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I am counting on your help if I address you with the Mayor, as well as your other colleagues and colleagues in the area. Cultural heritage is expensive. It's easy to build an object that doesn't need careful construction and big investments, but that's its prestige and that's its advantage. The only thing I can say is that it's worth putting all the energy together. After all, all you have listed is those objectives that Europe supports. And all the terms here are given. And we should all grab them together and help them with the ministry, which needs to find better options. I admit - say Castle Borl, your colleague asked me about this issue last time. The Ministry was looking for a tenant so that the contents and repairs of the castle could be restored in some way for money, which is also reserved. But where we're going to get a tenant who's going to be compressed into some of the rules set by the state - because the price for it is, say, too severe. And not financial, but certain limitations. If you set him up today and promise that the country will rebuild the castle in five, six years, give him an ara and then you will be able to manage it. It's not a guarantee! I also understand, maybe future potential tenants, that they have a problem with it. In short, things need to be taken in a much more professional way and with much more economic and also pragmatic calculations, which we do not have; neither do we have experience here. This is sad or very bad, because the end of the studies was a lot, the mind was quite a lot, the theory is quite a lot, and unfortunately the practice is not enough. The times that are coming, as I say, are not inclined to make it somehow rich. Unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Please, Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u131	Thank you for that answer. In fact, why did I ask further questions about this - because the Belokrans themselves, even those living abroad, are thinking about it - some who have the means to possibly contribute here have given their share in this castle. However, as long as the castle is in this condition, as well as the other castles in Slovenia, until at least they are known that this castle will not "fall together", it is difficult to get at least one serious investor. On the other hand, this is also the case - if I am going to this particular case: the history was here from the partisan hospital to the officer's school, then after the war the school was for hard-to-be young people. For a while there was an agri-majority school. I know there was a wine shop in there. Why am I saying this? So, for the castle itself, it's not necessarily just a wish, maybe there's something else that we could use it for. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u132	Mrs. Renata Brunskole, the answer is no longer possible. We could only propose a discussion on the Minister's response at the next meeting. You didn't do it. I'm counting, and I don't think it's conscious and intentional, and secondly, be careful. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u133	Mr. Chairman. A colleague of Brunskole abused the Rules of Procedure and the question that she had made the third time without a procedural proposal that she had not requested and I don't think she intended to request it either. It was a certain EPP, a desire to perform. You owe it not to save her, but to alert her to the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. I strongly protest such abuses. You are such an experienced Member that you have seen this and should, even if it is a Member of your kind, warn the Member of abuse. There are no further explanations by the Member of Parliament at this time. But you have to remind her.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Just give me a moment to tell Mr. Jerowski. I warned Mrs Renato Brunskole that she acted contrary to the Rules of Procedure. I warned her when she finished the discussion. Why? Because he has 3 minutes to propose and explain. And even before that, your colleagues and colleagues were always allowed to speak for two and a half minutes and then warned them to draw up a concrete business proposal, please. There is no reason for bad will, Mr Jerovšek. Everything was right. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I will also warn you in the future only after two and a half minutes and there is no reason to warn Mrs Brunskole. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] You don't have a word anymore. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] If it's procedural, Mrs. Brunskol.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Here I would like to make a public statement, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly and the ministerial assembly gathered here, and my colleagues and colleagues, publicly apologize. I assure you, however, that when I am a member of the National Assembly for as many years as Mr Jerovšek, I will certainly not make such a mistake. Excuse me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u136	Mrs Renata Brunskole, thank you for your apology, but this was not a procedural proposal. You were kind, but you abused the Rules of Procedure this time. Mr Jerovšek, I ask you kindly if you will stop speaking during the session. The next question to be raised is Mrs Eva Irgle. She will place it on the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, I believe that in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Dear Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs! On Friday, the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities also considered, inter alia, a letter from several retired officers of the former Aggressor JLA concerning their pension requirements. Of course, this letter justifiably triggered a burren and, above all, an extremely negative response in the entire Slovenian public. Nor can I get rid of the feeling that this letter was produced in the context of the sound of eraseds and their claims for compensation. This letter was sent to the public at a precise time and with a clear purpose - to attach the pot. So, if they can get their compensations erased, then those who have participated in the aggressor JLA may also receive pensions. It is quite improbable what is happening in Slovenia in all these hundred days of the reign of this new government! We are dealing with the erased and their compensations, dealing with the pensions of former officers of the aggressor JLA; it is said that we are dealing with people who simply whistled at this country 17 years ago. It meant nothing to them 17 years ago, but today those people from this country are claiming one compensation, another pension. On the basis of all this, I therefore ask you, Minister, are you preparing any legislative measures or changes to the law concerning the regulation of pension and invalidity insurance rights of former military insurers? I wonder what you intend to do in the case of retired officers of former aggressor JLA regarding their pension requirements. I thank you in advance for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u138	Mr Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u139	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member. As you know, the area of military pensions was systematically regulated by the Law on Rights from the Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers in 1998. It is the taking-over of the liability of the insurance under the eligibility criterion of the insured person who is either a nationality or a permanent residence. However, the persons involved in the aggression against the Republic of Slovenia are not entitled to rights. Prior to the entry into force of this law, former military insurers were paid military pension advances under a government decree. Since some were not entitled to the withdrawals, they submitted an initiative to the Constitutional Court because, in accordance with Article 15 of this Law, they could not obtain a pension back before 1998 when this law was adopted. The Constitutional Court held that this was contrary to the Constitution and therefore the unconstitutionality was abolished by a new law in 2006. These persons, however, were subsequently paid their pensions back, some for a period of seven years. The group of former officers of the former JLA now lists in their letter and in the requirements of several constitutional decisions issued in individual disputes in the constitutional appeal procedure, relating to Articles 6 and 7 of the Act. Those articles address the dose of a military pension, which differs from whether the beneficiary has been granted a decision by a military carrier in Belgrade. If it was, his pension will be paid in proportion to one. In the absence of a decision, the beneficiary shall be paid a military pension in lump sums according to the manner or class of the military insured under the military rules. Opinions of the Courts in the above-mentioned subject matter as they relate to complaints before the courts, according to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, should be incorrect. Therefore, the Constitutional Court has returned all cases to a decision by the lower courts. In short, it's a rather vague legal situation. All the new decisions issued by the lower courts, as they were, have been carried out in accordance with the ruling of the courts. Also, officers - this is their second argument - mention the Law on the Ratification of an Agreement on Succession Issues, which has been in force since June 2004, which in Annex E deals with the issue of pensions. On the basis of Article 7 of this successor Regulation, this Agreement, together with all subsequent agreements, is intended to definitively regulate all mutual rights. However, we consider that, given that the law governing the pensions of military personnel has already settled this matter, reference to hereditary legislation is not appropriate. On the basis of this, we conclude that the issue of pension and disability benefits is systematically and normatively regulated and therefore we do not plan specific normative measures in this regard, as there is no need to do so at present. However, it is possible that, given the many conflicts, there will be additional arguments and situations that will need to be re-evaluated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mrs. Eva Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u141	Dear Minister, I'm not entirely satisfied with your answer, especially because I have a feeling that you're avoiding my questions. This means that you are looking for some solutions to meet these requirements, which I think is totally unacceptable, but I will not ask you an additional question, perhaps at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgl, you too have abused the Rules of Procedure, because if you return, please contact me for an additional reply. Given that Mr Jerovšek is asking me to be very precise, I was obliged to say this kindly. Thank you very much. The next question will be put by Mr Silven Majhenič to the Minister of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u143	Mr. Vice President, Minister-in-Charge, Ministers! At the Institute for the Ending of Prisons at the Age, Director Jože Support set up a commission in April 2008 to examine the oral allegations and complaints of convicts against guard procedures for 2006 and 2008. The Commission conducted interviews with 16 convicts and 24 guards and on 7. Seven. 2008 issued a report on the findings of convictions regarding possible irregularities in the conduct of guards. This report was sent to the media by someone, and the newspaper of Slovenian News published all alleged culprits with full names and surnames, thus committing irreparable injustice to them. The guards were so publicly accused and publicly convicted, even though their guilt was not proven because it was not disciplinary procedures, but a finding to return. Later pre-marital and disciplinary procedures have dropped most of the charges against the guards, so I suspect that the public lynching of guards was only for the daily political needs, since the Director of the Institute for the Ending of Prison Penalties, Mr. Jože's Age of Support at this time as the leader of the party Zares for Dolenjsko and Bela Krajina has run for office in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I ask the Minister of Justice: How is it that no one has yet made a public apology to the affected guards and canceled the false allegations in the media? Why did he not require the responsibility of the Director of the Institute for the Ending of Prison Penalties, the Age of Mr Jožet Support and the Director-General of UX Mr Tomaž Smollet? In what way will the state reimburse the guards for the costs of disciplinary procedures and compensation for mental pain and public disgrace in the media? With effect from 1 November 2008, the amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions entered into force only selectively. Mr Tomaž Smole, Director-General for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, did not even begin drafting proposals for amendments to the sub-laws, and his lawyer, Aldo Carli, only wrote a proposal for amendments to the ZIKS, where the enforcement of the removal prison in open institutions was to be discontinued. The guards should be law-abiding police officers under the new law, but this is not the case. Thus, in his proposal for urgent changes to ZIKS, Mr Carli simply wrote that the word "justice officer" should be replaced by the word "guard". I ask: why is the regularly adopted and existing novel of the ZIKS not being implemented? Why has ZIKS changed for 30 years to take on Mr Ald Carli, who does not take into account the findings of modern penological theory and practice? Why does the term "justice officer" bother? What the Minister intends to do with the General Office [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , which is completely ineffective and preempts rather than aiding institutions to stop the sentence? [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u145	Thank you so much for asking. With regard to the specific procedures against employees in the administration, I should first explain the following; these procedures have taken place on the basis of charges against prisoners. Against this, even if the charges are guilty, no proceedings may be initiated in accordance with the provisions of Article 21 of the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment and Punishment. It is clear that there has been a serious problem in this institution during the previous government in this area as part of the Commission's discussion with 16 convicts and 24 guards. The result was, inter alia, that eleven persons were announced by a criminal complaint to the competent detection authorities. These proceedings are ongoing, as the internal affairs authorities have completed their work, and have referred the matter to the competent prosecutor's office, which has not yet taken decisions on this matter. Any assessment of the correctness or irregularities in this respect would therefore be least premature at this point. I also believe that, at the moment, the most important thing is to calm the situation in prisons with interviews and coordination that take place outside formal procedures, even outside disciplinary procedures. As Minister of Justice, I also do this very intensively. The first results of this dialogue with the employees associated with the union are also already well known. However, it also maintains that, inter alia, because of this open dialogue and the desire to calm the situation, disciplinary proceedings against 10 persons have been stopped and, in one case, the charges have been proved and the public servant has requested the termination of the employment relationship. The questions you have raised relate to another initiative. It was the Ombudsman's initiative. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement It was an initiative in relation to alleged violence against convicts and a special report was produced on 7 July 2008. How and why this report has come to the public - of course I, as the minister of this government, not the previous government, do not know, and therefore, unfortunately, I cannot answer either. Whether there will be any excuses depends on, for the first time, on the conclusion of all the procedures that are still open, as I have already mentioned; and for the second time, also on the establishment of a greater degree of mutual trust between employees and management, which the Ministry is working towards. With regard to the issue of the enforcement of the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, let me first say that this law, as well as its latest amendment, which was established on 1 November 2008, is being implemented. However, there are some problems that need to be recognised, particularly with regard to Article 13 of this Law, which relates to the enforcement of work in general favour. So here are the main problems, and these are also related to the fact that this reform was poorly planned in the previous year, that the centres for social work did not have adequate human and financial resources and that this has now been assured by this government through the budget rebalancing. You also mentioned some specific employees in the Enforcement Authority, which also cooperates with advice. For the time being, I do not think the Ministry of Justice has any serious concrete grounds for acting against these employees in such a way as to establish that they are not able to carry out these professional tasks. I hope this answer pleases you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Sylven Tiny, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. See, the Director-General for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, Mr Tomaž Smole, did not even begin drafting proposals for amendments to the sub-laws, and his lawyer, Aldo Carli, only wrote a proposal for amendments to the ZIKS, where the enforcement of the removal prison in open institutions was to be abolished. He set up a re-decision following the ZIKS with the subsidised application of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which means a return when guards and other professionals resume their business with fruitless administration instead of dealing with prisoners. The guards should be law-enforcement officers under the new law, but that's not the case. Mr Carli wrote in his proposal for urgent changes to ZIKS that the word "justice officer" should be replaced by the word "guard". Unacceptable and unacceptable from individuals who express their will. Why does the name "justice officer" bother you? This would allow for a wider spectrum and a mandate for the guards so far, especially for those who can no longer work in prisons. So much for the state of law and the law enforcement officers who are named only in a law whose enforcement is politically suspended. Mr. Minister: Why isn't the law being implemented? He wants to change before he comes back to life! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, supplement the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u149	The Ministry of Justice is also planning amendments to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions in its normative programme for this year, including some of the shortcomings identified so far. And these novels were quite a lot. What I can provide you with at this time is that we will also check this comment on judicial officers, although there seems to be a number of different interpretations at this time, what role these judicial officers should have in fact: whether their role should relate primarily to the tasks relating to the institutions themselves, or whether these powers should be extended and should be strongly linked to the work of the criminal courts in particular. If this were to happen, then this is even more reason for an additional increase in the number of employees for this purpose. However, you know that in this area we already have serious problems in view of the current functions of the Criminal Sanctions Administration, because there is a high level of undernutrition, and now the Government is also solving these problems in such a way as to exempt this category of civil servants from austerity measures in order to allow for appropriate adaptation of the human resources plans. Nevertheless, I can assure you that, as Minister, I will make sure that, in the context of these preparations, the well-founded recommendations you have made for the ZIKS amendment also take due account of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Matjaž Zanoškar to the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u151	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Some regions in Slovenia were looking for additional opportunities for their development in the period leading up to the financial perspective 2007-2013, looking for additional resources to join more developed regions. From this title, many regions have also put the development of higher education centres and the financing of their infrastructure into their regional development programmes. For the beginning and first steps of all this, local communities in these regions have contributed a lot of money and material resources to the start of all the conditions for the functioning of higher education centres. This was also due to the fact that we have seen in drawing funds from the Structural Funds for direct regional incentives also the possibility of obtaining funds to accelerate the functioning of these higher education centres. Well, we were disappointed for the first time when a call for these funds was made in 2007, when it was not possible to draw funds for the development of higher education centres, but then the Government, or the agreement between the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and the Ministry of Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, went to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. From here forward, in all the regions where we planned this, we expected this call to finally take place and we will thus try to accelerate the pace and dynamics of the development of our higher education centres, which we consider to be a resource, a condition for the successful development of the region. All of this has not been done to date, although, at the moment, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology's websites can also identify the operational programme to promote development potentials as funding for higher education regional centres, including their infrastructure. My question is this: How is it possible to draw on these funds? When will they be available for the development of higher education centres and for their infrastructure? And: When can we expect the first invitation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! Honorable assembly, honourable Member! Within these economic and logistical centres, which were included in the resolution on national development programmes 2007-2013 in the previous mandate, technological centres and centres of excellence should also work. And we encourage the development of these within the various priorities with development priorities for European structural resources. In the previous mandate, these economic centres were not financed through the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, but through the Ministry of Economy. The higher education centres mentioned within these centres, which are established or within these emerging or established economic centres, have other sources of funding, in particular their educational work. In part, they are private resources or concessions granted to, for example, the Higher School for polymer technology in Slovenj Gradec. This concession funding is governed by the Regulation on public financing of higher education and other institutions from 2004 to 2009. With this year the validity of this regulation expires and we are preparing, I will say, an amendment or a new regulation that will try to regulate this funding in a more permanent way. In short, a specific broad working group will be set up to start this difficult work of public funding for the whole of higher education. As far as the economic centres are concerned, this duality, which has taken place in the past with the Ministry of the Economy, has been preparing for a good month a thorough analysis of the activities and needs of regional and economic centres - they are included, they are being consulted, and representatives of our ministry are invited to join us. This analysis will be crucial to direct the promotion of research work in these economic centres on the basis of these envisaged programme priorities or structural priority measures. Thus, through these calls, which will be prepared after and on the basis of this analysis, somewhere in the middle of the year, I expect, it is possible to draw on these funds. While the educational work of these higher education institutions will remain a key basis for the above-mentioned regulation, which is still in force this year and is being funded and is being prepared for a new regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by Mr Miro Petek, Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, Mr President. Thank you very much. The story of the Štuvian tunnel is certainly even more alive that it does not need to be specifically restored. It is not only an overexpenditure of funds used to build this tunnel, it is also a disgraceful work reflected in the decommissioning of the barrier and the permanent closure of the tunnel, since, last but not least, this tunnel has been dangerous for all road users. To all those who worked in this business and the carrier, as we know, was SCT, it is certainly impossible to say that the work was done well. But surely we can say that they made good money in this business. Such transactions make a big profit to the contractor, but certainly not very nice and big references. The Public Procurement Act in two articles allows for action against that tenderer which has certain negative references. It is Articles 42 and 77 of this Law. Similar articles are also contained in the Law on Public Procurement in the field of transport, postal services, investment in the water economy and investment in energy facilities. Although this 42nd article already allows for the exclusion from the procurement process of that company, which is known to have made a major technical error in any investment in the field of public procurement - this has not yet happened. The legislation allows providers to be previously excluded from road infrastructure due to professional errors. It is unknown to us and the public whether the State or Dars, as contracting party to this legislation, has also adhered to or applied these articles. For abroad, it is well known that in these areas it is a blacklist of those operators who cannot run for a certain period of time for investments paid by taxpayers’ money. Article 77 of this Act also provides for a similar blacklist of tenderers with negative references and the contracting authority may exclude the tenderer from the proceedings if it provides false and misleading evidence. Outside the procurement procedures, it may remain so for three or five years. I'm asking you, Minister: Or and how many times were there when this article came into force? And how many companies have you listed on this kind of blacklist? [[Of course, if it exists.]] Further: Aren’t the mistakes in the construction of the pendulum so large that SCT should be found on this blacklist? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Transport, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u157	Thank you, Vice President. The Public Procurement Act does indeed allow or provides that "a candidate or tenderer shall be excluded from the award procedure if he has made a major professional error in the field of the subject matter of a public contract, which has been proven by means which the contracting authority may justify." This is the text of the Public Procurement Act. Therefore, that law does not currently allow the contracting authority to exclude the tenderer who meets the required references from the procurement procedure or does not allow black sheets unless it has been proved that such a tenderer has made a professional error. In the opinion of the contracting authorities, this legal provision was problematic, since it does not provide the contracting authority with the right tangible criteria on the basis of which it could define and later apply a negative reference. Although the law does not explicitly provide for this, they consider that under the applicable law, a judicial decision would be a proof of liability, which would show that the tenderer has made a professional error. Dars d.d., who, in the procurement procedures relating to the construction of the motorway network as a contracting authority, immediately gave the Ministry of Finance the initiative to accompany the provisions of the Public Procurement Act by providing legal basis for the creation of a list of suppliers with negative references and in a manner that will be feasible in practice. However, for negative references, it will not be sufficient simply to suspect that a mistake has been made. Prior to such amendment to the Public Procurement Act, Dars in recent calls, in addition to references that work has been done or an object has been built, also requires statements by investors that have obtained specific references, that work has been done in a qualitative manner and that the investor has been satisfied with the operator’s response in the event of possible minor errors. In a specific case of a fall-back fire interference in the Šentvid tunnel, Dars initiated a procedure to cash out the bank guarantee for the good performance of the contractual obligations due to some kind of performance. In this way, the guarantor submitted a guarantee to the NLB on 12.11.2008 and to the guarantor in accordance with the requirements of the guarantee. The SCT, however, submitted to the court a motion to issue a provisional order requiring the prohibition of payment for the purpose of cashing out the bank guarantee, which the court granted. Dars objected to the insurance decision in due time. The following is an action brought by the SCT concerning the cashing of the bank guarantee and Dars has responded to the action. The proceedings are currently pending before the Court of First Instance, both in relation to the objection to the insurance decision and, of course, with the action and the response to the action. With regard to the question of whether the Ministry will draw up a blacklist for those operators who state misleading and false evidence in their tenders, it should be noted that each tenderer bears full responsibility for the reality of its statements, otherwise it is sanctioned. However, misleading tenders may be avoided by indicating in the tendering documentation all the requirements as clearly as possible, so that the tenderer cannot withdraw from them. The Ministry of Transport will continue to insist, as part of its supervision of Dars, that it use, to the greatest extent possible, the legal instruments for the elimination of professionally inappropriate tenderers, provided that the legal order permits this. Otherwise, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, we will endeavour to amend the Public Procurement Act as soon as possible, so that negative references are more clearly defined and that more opportunities will be given to this contracting authority to implement them in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u159	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Unfortunately, I cannot be entirely satisfied with this answer. I would ask you if you would answer me in the next reply when you will come to Parliament with this amendment of the law. Will it be this year, or in this term? Otherwise, why the question of this so-called blacklist? Of course, not to be hurtful or apprehensive. The construction of state roads is a matter of state money or state guarantees, and the state must establish a system to make construction fast, efficient and relatively cheap, but not cheap. In the past, the Slovenian authorities have been very fond of kneeling in front of the construction lobby. Remember, when the Prime Minister was Dr. Janez Drnovšek, legalizations were allowed from the envisaged investment plans for up to 50%. Remember the Golovec tunnel and the entire section of this highway. This section with Golovec's tunnel was 100% more expensive. As for Šentvid, Golovec was part of the SCT. Years ago, the European Commission commissioned a study showing the average price of quadruples in the European Union or in the 15th. This is 6.8 million, and in Slovenia it is 12.5 million km of highway. So there are opportunities for large savings in this area. And, Minister, please answer these questions as well, especially when you come before the National Assembly with a change of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u161	Thank you, Vice President. What was happening in the tunnel of Shentvid was happening, if you remember, in your government's mandate. And these changes that you described today, you probably felt that they would have to be made. Our government will do it this year. As part of the measures to reduce the costs of the material and technical conditions for the functioning of the public administration bodies, we have agreed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will impose on the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Public Administration to prepare amendments to the Public Procurement Act and the Public Procurement Act on water, energy, transport and postal services to increase competitiveness, efficiency, efficiency in the award of public procurement, in particular in the case of the publication of contracts of lower value on the Internet, including the pooling of orders and the compulsory basic education of employees and other changes that will increase the efficiency and efficiency of public procurement. I estimate that the Government will send these changes to Parliament this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I see that there is still much to be said about this issue, so, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to the National Assembly that it vote on the initiative to discuss the Minister's response to the question raised at the next meeting. I think that we will also please the Minister, because he will have more time to explain these issues. In this project, the construction project of motorways, fast roads, which exceeds the entire Slovenian annual budget, we need to be particularly sensitive. According to some estimates, it is €10 billion, and by maintaining motorways and these state roads it is estimated to be around €13 billion by 2022. I think that this issue is important and should also be opened at the plenary session of the National Assembly. The prices of building Slovenian highways fly to the sky. In addition, operators do very poorly. For all of this, they are eventually rewarded with new and additional jobs. I suggest that we open these questions at the next meeting of the National Assembly and discuss them thoroughly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Friday. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the context of the parliamentary issues. Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor for the question. The question will be asked by the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u165	Dear Presidents, esteemed Ministers and Ministers! Dear colleagues and colleagues! As has already been said, I am addressing the oral question to the Minister for Agriculture, but it concerns the payment of subsidies to farmers. It all appears that this year the practice of the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development will be repeated to pay subsidies late. That's how the story repeats from year to year. While in neighbouring countries, such as Austria, Hungary, make payments that are due for the current year until the end of that year, we usually have these promises that they will be close to the new year or immediately after the new year, and then for various reasons that these payments will be delayed until late spring, sometimes by early summer. Today, as we know, there are all segments of the economy in the crisis. The top crisis has also hit the agricultural sector, although it is less talked about and may not be so exposed. However, it is a whole range of matters related to the food processing industry and to the related prices of milk, meat and also to very expensive mineral fertilisers, which come out in particular. And again, as I have already said, we are somewhere on the brink of this interest, despite the fact that we are all striving for as much self-sustainment as possible with food and agricultural products. Therefore, to the Minister of Agriculture, who himself mentioned in these discussions that we had before the start of our term of office, drew attention to this matter and also promised assistance and appealed for a faster payment of subsidies for 2008, I ask the question: How many subsidies have been paid? To date, how many agricultural holdings have already received payments for 2008 and also what amount has been paid? How many subsidies must be paid and when will they be? It usually happens, so I ask for numbers and the amount that subsidies are first paid to smaller agricultural producers. Even this year, there is nothing different about my information, although usually those who are entirely dependent on agriculture may be even more needed in the immediate future. Inspections are also a major problem, where, despite the fact that there is nothing wrong, these payment delays eventually occur, although people are not to blame. And that's why I'm really warning you, Minister, and the whole government, not to forget about agriculture. And he still holds that what we sow, that's what we'll want. And the time for sowing is coming.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, may I have a word with you for an answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much too, Mr Bogovich, for this question. I'll certainly start by saying who would take care of the farmers if not the Minister of Agriculture, so, as far as this is concerned, you can rest assured. They keep my promises. I'll be very specific. One of the priorities in my programme, as you rightly stated, was to ensure faster and more efficient payment of agricultural subsidies. Compared to the 2007 campaign, which was then paid in 2008, last February, 30 million subsidies were paid according to my data. One hundred ten million subsidies were paid this year. I think it's a major shift. Besides, we've moved more or less all our hands back for two months, we've cut them short, if I may say so. In fact, something could not be done in hundreds of days. For the first time, we remunerated subsidies, part of subsidies, already in December, for an area with limited factors of EUR 37 million. That didn't happen either. Of course, the system paid off is complex and, in fact, the situation I found in the Agency for Agricultural Markets and also in the control system is very complex and cannot be resolved so quickly. I'd warn you, you mentioned control. The checks shall be carried out by an external implementing organisation. There have been many complaints from farmers in these checks. We had many field discussions, especially in Crassus, because things were impossible, some farmers had six checks and so on. It's something that needs to be settled, but the contract is long-term, and we have just one special system to get it right. That's one of the problems we found out. Another problem with the payment of agricultural subsidies is good information equipment. We have eight years of old information technology, and this information technology is a narrow throat. And we applied for three and a half million in this year's budget in an additional balance sheet, and we got 700,000. Two million and what's left will have to be found inside the Ministry if we want to update the information technology. In doing so, I ask for support so that things can be better handled. That was the second problem I'm facing. However, as regards the payment and subsidy schemes themselves, this is the case. In accordance with the European Regulation, subsidies are to start to be paid from 1.12. for the current year and up to 30.6. next year. That's the rule, and at that time, you have to pay for the subsidies. Part of the subsidies runs throughout the year, calls are open, especially for investments in comassation, irrigation and the like. And in these calls, the invitation to tender shall be closed when the applicants are sufficient and the applications shall be considered. In other calls, which you are talking about, running, very important, I agree, very important for smooth agricultural production, but so far we have done what I have said. This is said to have increased the amount of money paid up to three times today. It is true that measures in these areas, with limited factors, can already be paid from November onwards and we will also try to prepare this next year. When you start doing this, you also need to prepare regulations and invitations in time. There's another problem. Every year, a number of pressures have led to certain changes in the regulations themselves. When you have to change this regulation, then you have to change the information program and then all of this will delay the time of the invitation to tender. So this year we minimised things and insisted on existing conditions, which I think was nothing wrong. As I said, in the area of OMD, we have paid a large part of the funds, so at present out of 49,000 beneficiaries, 2,000 applications have not been paid by the end of February. With regard to the SCOP and COP measures, there is a somewhat more demanding procedure because the greening control needs to be carried out, and therefore we must wait for all crops to arrive at the plan so that they can be assessed. There are 27,000 beneficiaries, 42 million euros are available and payments will start in April. We can't do this first because of the condition of control that is linked to the growth season. Regarding payments [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] 62 grand. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u168	Fifteen seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u169	I would say so: up to now, €110,000 has been paid. Last year was during this period [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] EUR 30 000 paid. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The watch itself makes that sign, so it's not just up to me. Mr. Bogovich, would you like some more? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. The next question to be raised is Mr Milan Čadež, Minister for Environment and Space. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u171	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Nice greetings for me, too. Pursuant to Article 162 of the Water Act, the Water Fund was established at the end of 2002 as a dedicated budget item. In 2008, only a good EUR 7 million was allocated from the Water Fund from a total of EUR 24 million for the construction, investment and regular maintenance of water infrastructure, which is strongly insufficient. Some regions, including those facing extreme flood risks, have not received any funds. For this reason, exceptional amounts of public funds for recovery had to be allocated instead of acting preventively. Are the funds of the Water Fund that are earmarked really spent on purpose? Taking into account the fact that in 2008 EUR 11.6 million was earmarked for hydropower plants in the lower Sava, i.e. for energy investments. Although we know that any investor who intervenes in water space has to bear the costs to remedy the consequences of such an intervention. The Water Fund shall collect the funds paid for water refunds and payments for water rights granted. So why are they not primarily intended to regulate watercourses, increase flood safety and improve the water regime, which is the fundamental mission of the Water Fund? The Water Fund programme shall be approved by the Minister of State. However, proposals shall be collected in a consistent manner and shall be chosen in particular in a transparent manner, without pre-known and uniform criteria, without the possibility of equal participation of all regions of the country in order to record needs. It follows from the Ministry's reports that the investments of the Water Fund are very uneven and unevenly distributed throughout the country and follow the level of flood risk of the areas in which they are invested. I therefore wonder: With what measures does the Ministry of the Environment and Space intend to make the use of the Water Fund to improve the water infrastructure situation more efficient, more efficient, purposeful and more transparent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Since you were informed at the outset, you know that the Minister for Environment and Space is absent. The next question will also be raised by Mr Milan Gumzar to the Minister for Environment and Space and the Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u173	Colleagues and colleagues! Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! Since there is no Minister for Environment and Space, please answer this question at the next meeting. However, since the Minister of Defence is present, I am asking her a question, both ministerial departments. North-Eastern Slovenia, or the central part of the Slovenian Mountains, was hit by a number of earth reptiles that damaged both public utility infrastructure and some economic and housing facilities in February 2000. I therefore ask the Minister of Environment and Space and the Minister of Defence: What measures are they or will they take as competent ministers, and is there already a plan to assist municipalities in the rehabilitation of these beaches? As an example, some 200 beaches have been reported only at the exhibition of the Agency for Protection and Rescue in Maribor. I also ask the Minister of Environment and Space: When will the municipalities affected by the euro in 2008 at their municipal infrastructure facilities - and have a decision by the State to carry out the process of recording and valuing damage - receive the recovery funds after the storm in 2008? The funds were obtained only by those municipalities that were affected by greater damage, especially on individual and other facilities. In fact, I would like to answer: When will we be compensated for the storms in 2008, and how will we approach the rehabilitation of the beaches that occurred after the precipitation or south in 2009? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of Defense, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Your Honor! I can answer that part of your questions about the problem of beach action and the assessment of damage caused in the event of natural disasters. Of course, it is always in such situations if there are adequate legal grounds for doing so. And I think you will see that in this particular case, we have a problem with the fact that not all the legal conditions have been met to involve ourselves more broadly in the rescue or assistance of these beaches. We also note from the reports we have from our colleagues on the ground that there have been a large number of earth reptiles, intrusions, pitfalls and implants, so a whole range of phenomena occurred in the situation you are describing in February this year, and some of them have also endangered individual housing and economic facilities, and have also damaged infrastructure. The tasks of protection, rescue and assistance in such cases are that when a threat arises to individual facilities, it first tries to join with local forces. In this case, we have done everything necessary with the local security and rescue forces. Therefore, no broader groups or civil protection units were involved. They were mostly involved, and they were the most active firefighters. More than 50 of these events, which were present in February this year, were so extensive that our representatives of the expositions, regional expositions of the protection and resolution board visited them, namely, they were visited together with geomechanists, geologists and representatives of the regional damage assessment commissions. It was found that in none of these cases it was the extent to which it would meet the conditions for initiating the assessment of damage in accordance with the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents. This 2005 law was supplemented in 2007. As for other natural disasters, the conditions laid down in that law must also be met in the case of land beaches for State aid, during which the basic condition is that there is direct damage which exceeds 0,3 per cent of the planned revenue of the State budget. This is €2.6 million in this case. In accordance with that law, direct damage is further assessed only on an individual terrestrial beach since the amendment of the law in 2007 and it is no longer possible to calculate the damage caused by reptiles within the 90-day period at different locations and in different periods. Article 7(1) of the Regulation on the methodology for the assessment of damage is also provided for in Article 7(1) to assess the damage caused by the terrestrial beach or by a collision which endangers the settlement or multiple settlements, the construction and engineering facilities and other property to a large extent, and does not include implants, podors and other similar natural phenomena caused by intense rainfall, nor is it assessed any more the changes that occur on unsainted old beaches. In view of the damage caused by reptiles and other implants in the eastern part of the country, unfortunately we will not be able to assess it because there was no legal basis. The fact is that such recorded phenomena in Slovenia are over 3,000, and you have already pointed out a significant number of those already recorded. As far as we know at the Ministry of Defence and at the Ministry of Environment and Space, efforts have been under way for years to improve the implementation of remedial measures in such cases as we have in the situation in February 2009 in eastern Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The next question will be asked by Mr Marjan Bezjak to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u177	Thank you for your input, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues of the National Assembly! In accordance with the Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am asking you an oral question. The Coalition Treaty states that the primary objective of the coalition partners in employment is to strengthen the labour market through employment. There's no way I can say that. At the end of the term of office of the former government, employment has in fact been at the lowest levels of the country since Slovenia's independence. I would like to point out that when the current coalition was taken over by the government, people's unemployment was actually created by 11.9% from September to December, from December to the end of February, by 65.4%. I don't know where that leads. Why do I ask? I come from the Slovenian Mountains, where companies are mainly connected to the automotive industry and construction. These companies will somehow get the most out of recession. I therefore ask: How many are currently unemployed in the Republic of Slovenia? How many unemployed young people are under the age of 30? What measures are envisaged by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to stop the increase in the number of unemployed? And third. We all know that at the end of the day, most of the professors in colleges are over seventy-seven years old and still teach and do not want to retire, thus making it impossible for young professors or professors to find new jobs. How will you change this law so that, after all, these people will finally go to peace and allow young people to learn? We ourselves know that ministers also teach in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u179	Thank you so much for asking. Data from 16. 2. 2009 says that in Slovenia there were then sixty-seven thousand two hundred and forty-four unemployed. Unemployment increased by about ten thousand in Slovenia in December 2008. However, I must say that compared to Europe, we are still at a much lower level under the ILO criterion, up to 4.9% of unemployment, which is relatively low between the European Union countries, as only four countries have a lower unemployment rate than Slovenia, with an average of 7.6%. With regard to measures to prevent or reduce the increase in unemployment, let me say that we have committed to this measure to subsidise short-term full-time employment, which expressly states that beneficiaries of this subsidy cannot forgive. And as has already been said today, there are at least five thousand people remaining active among the companies that have been reported to this programme, which would otherwise have moved to the Employment Service. In addition, we have a number of active employment policy measures in place. These are measures such as subsidising the employment of unemployed persons if they are employed by the employer, assisting in self-employment and granting subsidies for self-employment if someone chooses to do so, public works, promoting social entrepreneurship are also part of the programme. Very much attention and resources are devoted to training measures for both employees and unemployed persons, as their knowledge and skills are a prerequisite for them to keep or regain their jobs. This takes place through a number of programmes, such as job training, institutional training, where there are various courses and preparation for national professional qualifications, formal education for unemployed persons and the like. A new public invitation to tender has recently been issued for shorter forms of training of employees in micro and small enterprises and companies applying the subsidy. Therefore, both measures can be combined here, i.e. a short-term subsidy. There is also an invitation to tender for institutional training to be applied for directly by employees with an estimated number of inclusions of 12,000. We are also working with the Student Organisation of Slovenia, with which we are preparing a programme to prevent young graduates from becoming unemployed, so that they can move to employers as quickly as possible through the subsidisation of their employment. Another measure, the so-called "De minimis" measure, would mention where intervention in this area would be possible in cooperation with other resources. As a comment on your question, let me add that unemployment is a result of an economic crisis that has not been felt by the end or the middle of at least the previous year and that this is the result of both the financial and economic crisis and cannot be prevented if there is no economic recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u181	Thank you. The answer to the last question somehow I didn't get about the professors who somehow don't want to retire, if that's what we can say. Our young professors or our young professors end up leaving colleges and actually going abroad or perhaps even into the economy. It's true that we're comparing, let's say, you gave the case to 4.9% of the actual unemployment. I would not follow Europe, I would follow Slovenia, and let us try to get back to the way we were. We live from the economy, the economy is the key that gives money for us all and for the development of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u183	I'm sorry I didn't answer that question. My answer would be as follows. As far as the higher education mentioned is concerned, it has reached the criteria to which we will all weigh in the future. If we want to have a sustainable pension system, the activity of all employees will have to be extended, otherwise we will not have any pension funds. In some ways, higher education has already achieved this through its specific regulatory system. However, these changes will need to be achieved in other areas when we go into reform or modernisation of the pension system.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Laszlo Gönch has the floor. Would you like to ask the absent minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u185	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! One minister is not here, and the other minister is present. Allergen ambrosia has already been discussed in the National Assembly in the past, but unfortunately nothing has been done to reduce its impact. I believe that this extremely dangerous allergen has not been approached with all seriousness and attention. It should be borne in mind that this allergen is present today in significant concentrations in the eastern parts of the Republic of Slovenia. In an extremely high proportion we find it mainly in Prekmurje and Podravje, but it also extends relentlessly to the interior of Slovenia. It is likely that the findings so far have not been based on a comprehensive treatment of the problem, as every fifth citizen faces negative effects of ambrosia in the eastern part of the country. Among all allergic diseases in Slovenia, the percentage of ambrosia is estimated at more than 30%. Undoubtedly, in the late summer and early autumn months of Eastern Slovenia, the conditions of life also deteriorated significantly due to ambrosia. In the case of ambrosia, weeds are most commonly found along roads, railway lines, by river banks and streams, and in deserted fields. With the new highway between Maribor and Lendava, we were able to track down the real plantations of this extremely aggressive allergen last autumn. Despite initially different expert opinions, the plant in question is also causing increasing damage to agriculture. This plant species is most rapidly spread mainly on poorly maintained land, along roads and in areas of major construction operations in the natural area, from which it is then extended to agricultural land. With regard to measures to prevent growth and spread of ambrosia and mitigate its harmful effects, all three public sectors directly linked to the effects of the spread of allergen should join forces. These are, in my opinion, mainly health, environment and space resources and agriculture and perhaps others. I ask the competent minister, one also in the absence of: Under the programmes of ministries, do they want to accelerate activities to reduce the spread of allergen in the current year? What concrete measures do they envisage in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister for Agriculture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u187	Thank you very much to the Member for the question. We've already met with the MOP. That was February 9th. At the ICGP, we recorded 37 issues that have accumulated over the past years, but they have not been resolved and are lying on drawers. Also, say, sound strategy. One of these, however, is the issue of invasive alien species. Among them is the pelinophilic ambrosia, Ambrosia artemisifolia, which is truly known for its allergen and appears mainly along the roads, it also appears on abandoned agricultural areas and is an increasing problem. The Strategy on the Methodology of Suppression has been adopted within the framework of the European and Mediterranean Plant Protection Organisation. The expert views are given. We have proposed to Mr Erjavac, Minister of Environment and Space, because this is more a matter of the ILO to be understood than the ICGP to regulate the area of invasive foreign plants in Slovenia, because they are threatening some other plants so that I will not list them. Six more, seven of them are who we know will soon appear in Slovenia, and they have not yet. We also agreed that this Interdepartmental Working Group, composed of representatives of the ILO, the ICGP and also the Ministry of Health, as you suggested, would start work 31. 3. 2009 and to prepare these professional bases for the implementation of measures to prevent proliferation, in this case pelinophilic ambrosia, somehow up to 30. 6. 2009 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Goncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u189	There's only one sentence I'd like to add. I welcome the establishment of this Interdepartmental Commission. As you yourself have estimated, the Ministry of Environment and Space is primarily competent here, so I am certainly asking for the Minister's reply at the next meeting of the National Assembly. At the same time, I would point out, despite the claims that there are many allergens that are spreading very aggressively, that it is probably among these that the most present allergen ambrosia is present in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u190	Thank you very much. You will receive an oral reply from the Minister of Environment and Space at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Mr. Ivan Grill has a question for the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u191	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to ministers, ministers and, of course, colleagues and colleagues. Madam Minister, this is the Ministry of Defence, which has been running it for over 18 years or almost 18 years in the use of a number of land, real estate, housing, buildings which the Ministry unfortunately does not use. I am convinced that this also causes material damage to both the Ministry and society in general, mainly because of the damage done to these facilities due to the non-use of the works, and above all the greater damage that this land or this property cannot be used by the company more than it is now. In the previous term, your predecessor here in the National Assembly explained that these properties are managed somehow at the Ministry or in the use or strategy of the 1995 Regulation, which is the basis of which this strategy is then implemented. I am of the opinion that this is such an old act, which certainly no longer follows these new needs in modern times. Similarly, your predecessor in the National Assembly mentioned that in 2008 a number of attempts were being made to resell some of the apartments, so that some of the apartments could also be made for free ownership under the law which was adopted on this possibility that some of the land would also be transferred to the Agricultural Land Fund and some of the apartments also to the Housing Fund. In view of the fact that there are still many of these varied properties in use at the Ministry, I am particularly interested in the following questions that I expect answers to in this regard. In particular: What is your strategy or view of all these properties? In what way will you deal with a more rapid solution to this problem, which is a pressing problem? How much land was specifically dedicated to the fund in 2008? How many apartments were handed over to the Housing Fund? In particular, how many of these properties have been devoted to the free use of local communities which, according to the known data, are very interested in acquiring ownership of these properties? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of Defense, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u193	Thank you so much for asking. In particular, because, as you warn, the Ministry of Defence still owns quite a lot of different land and property, but it is important to know that this is not a basic activity of the Ministry of Defence and this is something we have to deal with. We invest a lot of resources in this, but unfortunately, the extraction is sometimes not the best. What will be the strategy in the future, I must tell you that it will be linked to the strategic review of the Defence Department, which is currently under way at the Ministry of Defence. At this time, however, sales or land management and real estate in the manner established in the past by the Ministry of Defence continue to take place as we await the results of this review. As far as your very specific questions are concerned, it is probably right for me to tell you in concrete terms that we are transferring to the local community those properties and properties of which the public interest is expressed. This means that when it is handed over to the public interest in a particular property, there is also a condition for availability. Those properties may not be sold further for a specified period. As a rule, this is 30 years, which also discourages many stakeholders from expressing such a public interest. Many local communities are interested in getting these properties and selling them further. But we cannot do that because we manage public property or the real property of the country. Thus, in 2008 it was transferred to the municipalities of property worth EUR 5.5 million. If you are specifically interested in sports facilities and roads in Ribnica, the former Bukovje military station in the municipality of Dravograd, apartments and certain lands were transferred to the municipality of Brežice, the National House in Maribor was transferred to Maribor, the land for the fire house in Ajdovščina to the municipality of Ajdovščina, and two apartments went to the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica and the municipality of Postojna. This was a solution to Počko’s problems and some other properties were thus transferred. For 2009, we plan to complete the procedures for the transfer of former military facilities in Illyrian Bistrica and Trnov, then part of the facilities in the municipality of Pivka, where they are mainly those facilities that are in the park of military history and are essentially transferred to the Ministry of Culture, then sports facilities in the municipality of Tolmin, the ground for kindergarten in Vrhnika and similar things are in the programme for this year. As far as military housing is concerned, the situation is next. The strategy is that these apartments are divided into perspectives and perspectives. They are perspectives where we still have our members of the Slovenian Army and are interested in these apartments, which means that military apartments are only given to military personnel. The remaining unsuspecting ones, however, are being sold or made available to the Housing Fund. Regrettably, in the Housing Fund, the interest is mainly for younger dwellings, which are less than 30 years old, which the Ministry of Defence hardly has. For example, in 2007, we offered 79 such apartments, almost none were purchased, and we are now preparing a new proposal for a transfer in 2009, namely 287 apartments. What success we will see in this. I also have to say that the apartments we give to soldiers or military renters are then being renewed and, on the basis of the money collected from rents, invested in the renewal of other still promising apartments that we need for military personnel. In fact, this military housing fund is financed and restored within itself. As regards the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, two large-scale transfers of these non-performing land were made in 2008, namely those not built, which means that 281 parcels were transferred to the Fund at 167 hectares. We continue to prepare 18 hectares for this year. In 2009, we will also try to transfer to the Fund of Agricultural Lands those areas that are built with military facilities and are not recorded in a cadastral or registered in land books.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your answer. Because I was running out of time to ask you a few more questions, but I'm gonna keep going. I'm glad to hear your answers. If I understand you correctly, a document or strategy is being prepared at the Ministry, whereby you will somehow manage or pass on these properties in the future. In the future, I will ask you a written question specifically on certain matters from Dolenjska or New Town, because there is a local community very interested in acquiring a land where horse sports is taking place where this is socially good, various sports events are taking place and this would be in the public interest. I would now like to ask you: Is it possible to expect such individual cases, which, according to your assessment, will be suitable for such a free transfer to local communities, your support? Also for 26 apartments that the municipality of Novo Mesto wants to use primarily to solve the Roma problem, which is extremely difficult in our area, and both the mayor and the local community want these issues to be addressed as state aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u196	Mr Grill, the Minister will, at her discretion, answer, but you know that you do not have the opportunity to ask any further questions, but you can only ask for an additional answer. The Rules of Procedure state that matters of local importance are not a matter of question to ministers. And you, as you'll know and know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u197	Thank you very much for this additional question. I suggest you address the Ministry of Defence to specific cases. We can also visit Novo Mesto with appropriate experts and determine which land is involved and which apartments, and then find out how we can proceed. However, as far as the strategy is concerned, it is based on a system of perspective and perspective setting. It is true that, in view of the changes that we will have to make in the context of the defence system in the future, there will probably also be opinions as to which land can still be seen in the future and which apartments are still promising in the future. It will also be necessary to provide for possible deviations from what we have known in the past as the past practice of the Ministry of Defence. However, the rules applicable to the transfer of the State's real property will be followed by the laws currently in force.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Puksic has the floor to ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, Madam Ministers, nice greeting! In today’s lecture before today’s meeting of the National Assembly, we have heard many interesting things at the expense of the development of science. I liked that very much. In particular, I would like to highlight the words of our European Commissioner, Dr Potočnik, who said that countries are not divided by size into small and large but by good and less. For the further development of Slovenia, therefore, it is also important to see in the future the relationship between enrolments in the Faculty of Science and Technology and the Faculty of Social Sciences and the Slovenian University. In the last four years, there have been major positive developments in this area introduced by Minister Zupan. It is unlikely that many of these things have been observed, which unfortunately was normal, as the former LDS governments have led the entire education system in the wrong direction, targeted education and so on, and especially university studies. During the economic crisis, the Slovenian economy proved to be far behind the global economy in technological development. Such cases, as they have been today, are unfortunately very few, since there are too few programmes with high added value, which of course also shows an increase in unemployment in this economic crisis. This information is not surprising since Minister Gabra has since promoted and encouraged social studies. That is why I ask you, Minister: what will be the future entry policy at the university and higher school in the relationship between science and technology and social sciences? What are you going to do to get the best and most creative students who will be able to develop technologies and products for the future? Unfortunately, efforts are currently being made by the Government to see some of the good positive movements of Minister Zupan withdraw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u200	Mr. Secretary, may I have a word with you for an answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. Indeed, before the meeting of the National Assembly today was an interesting lecture by Professor Jerale, who naturally comes from the field of science. He talked about synthetic biology and the successes that he has achieved in the international environment, along with groups of students, for many years in a row. The question that you are also asking is partly addressed there. In one part of Commissioner Potočnik's comment that the movements in this area cannot possibly be linked, if they are to be sufficient and even realistic, to the activity of one minister's own department. The policy of restricting or redistributing places of entry in individual directions can, if at all, be a small piece at the end of a path that affects how young people decide to realize their potentials, ambitions, i.e. for their studies. Especially since you mentioned that science and technology are expected to be devoted to the most capable people, they should not be underestimated. Because they are able, because they are smart, they decide on the basis of their own judgment, taking into account their ambitions, thank God, they are not so few, on the basis of position, reputation, recognition in society as a whole of these professions, education and knowledge at all. The ministry is aware of this, I think, a more serious way than it has done in the past. By the way, targeted education took place in the 1980s and there were no customers in Slovenia at the time. But it is a comprehensive consideration of what to do and how to do in this area. I believe that facing the current economic crisis can also be paradoxical, perhaps contributing to this. It seems that later they would be able to achieve greater valid values that can be linked to knowledge, knowledge acquisition, knowledge dissemination, use of knowledge, and less values associated with various speculative activities. Of course, it must also be followed by a society’s relationship as a whole at different levels and with a crowd of seemingly small actions. What was judged today by the National Assembly, when the College concluded that it started with a series of presentations on the achievements of Slovenian scientists, is one contribution, one piece, to the fact that science, research and education will ultimately have a greater reputation in our society and that people will also be motivated by this work. We also plan a series of other activities in the promotion of science and knowledge in Slovenia. We believe that media attention will also be appropriate, that it will follow, and that more information will thus be available to young people when they decide to study. In this year's invitation to tender, we did not limit the places of entry. Statistics show that Minister Zupan’s policy, which is not to give up good intentions when it comes to recognizing the fact that there is a shortage of technical and natural resources, was that these steps were, by increasing the places of entry in these directions and seemingly cutting down on social workers, it was apparent because what he had cut down, then in public institutions he additionally opened up the places of entry in private institutions that he did not give the results he would have wanted or would have wanted more. This year, we recognised all the proposals made by all higher education institutions in the entry cities, and we did not limit them anywhere this year. We have an opportunity in April, given the realisation of the entry interest, either to limit the entry somewhere or to increase it. If, hopefully, there is a greater interest in natural and technical directions than in places of registration, I would be happy to support that the number of places of entry there is also increasing and ensuring funding for this larger entry. However, I am afraid that some systematic multi-annual action will require this with some imaginary comprehensive policy of different departments and, I will say, not only the Government, but also other public institutions, to achieve some decisive movement.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, with your answer, I will say that I am partly satisfied in this direction, because you are thinking about the activities that will need to be done, as well as, of course, media support, i.e. media presence, I will say, so technical sciences throughout society. However, I fear that what you have said or that this part of your answer will make them more recognizable or even more receptive to these so-called social studies. Anyway, even myself, I believe that you are inclined to do so, because you have studied it yourself, even though after a long nineteen years you have completed this social studies. But certainly, Mr. Secretary, I don't understand why you think those who graduated from technical colleges in the next four years are fools. I don't understand that. You've made this public in the media. Your, of course, insulting and cynical statements, I do not wish to comment, but it seems essential to me that university higher education curricula become what they once were, that students are educated, not taught to ascribe them from the world web, as many and many today come to a diploma, a warning sign for the end of the debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u205	In fact, it's hard to comment on such flat and insulting accusations of someone who, I'm going to say, is obviously reading a particular literature. Look. I didn't study sociology, I studied humanities. This has to be separated. There is also a difference between science and technology. I'll give you information because I don't want to insinuate like you do with some statements that are nonexistent. In 2007 and 2008, the ratio between sociology and technical and technical cities was 31.58% of social science, business science and law; science, mathematics, computer science - 8.56% of admissions and technology, production technology, construction - 22.66%. In this year, social sciences, business sciences and law are 31.57%, one hundred percent less. Natural science 8.75%, so two tenths more and techniques - one tenth less. It's a comparable, identical entry point. This is what higher education institutions call for. The entry itself, and the actual entry is something else. And in April we will see what will actually happen with this entry, where there will be more interest, where it will be less. We will act in accordance with the reflection on which professions, which educational structure must be strengthened. And regardless of what someone has studied, it is not difficult to find that there are no engineers in Slovenia. Of course, measures to increase this without people being considered to be Butals and trying to direct them to some schooling, without believing that their future is in this way is not possible. We will follow this path of reason and reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u207	Thank you very much. In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I will propose that this subject be discussed. Indeed, the economy has shown itself to suffer from a poor school system in technological and scientific fields, to have a recession, a low standard, an increase in unemployment, and so on, the consequences of wrong education policies. Mr. Minister, if my guidance was from non-existent sources, then believe me, I will apologize from this place. At the same time, at the same time, I expect you to show your statement when I am your existing source, which is the Evening - Saturday Annex, 14 days ago, you too will do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri has the floor to ask the Minister for Environment and Space a question. The minister's gone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u209	Thank you, Chairman. I know he's gone and I was wondering if I'd ask that question or leave him for the next time. But given the dramatic nature of this problem, I think it is right to put it up today, because I hope that tomorrow the minister will be available or that the question will come to him. This is a worrying development with regard to illegal waste landfills and an incomprehensible response, with incomprehensible responses from the Ministry itself. The question is, on the one hand, local, because it binds to a specific area, but it concerns all legislation which provides for the management of hazardous waste. In Cyprus, a large state-owned company, that is, Luka Koper, benefited from the illegal disposal of waste at a semi-facilitation plant where investor Luka Koper was demolished; contrary to the Waste Management Regulation, by which the investor was fully responsible for the management of construction waste; it allowed the disposal of such waste at a location for which she did not have permission. The environmental inspector has issued a decision that the port must dispose of the waste. Luke complained, this is a state-owned company, and the Ministry has abolished the decision, "because," I quote, "the form of the power to grant construction waste is not prescribed and may also be oral." However, it ordered the Inspector to determine in the re-trial procedure whether the waste taker was responsible for taking care of them. In those days, however, it was plausible that, by the end of January, corruption criminals had received a complaint that, in the cave of Griž in Kubed, run by Primorje, Primorje’s trucks were hauling away from a resembling land from the construction site of the southern Ankaran dam. It's about waste that the media has been talking about a lot lately, and now it's only 100 meters away from the protection zone of the source of Rizana. It is a hazardous waste disposal that takes place on the route of Luka Koper, the state company, the municipality of Koper and the contractor. I'm asking the Ministry: Will it finally respond with the right decisions? Is it going to be [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, as well as the Minister for Education and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u211	Ladies and gentlemen! Nicely greeted! I was approached by a citizen and in an interesting way described his life situation. This is what he says: we are a young couple and together we earn 1,700 euros, which is the Slovenian average. We have a mortgage that costs us 700 euros a month. The items and other costs take away €400, leaving us with €600 to live on. That's enough for a couple to survive in a month. However, the problem arises when young people start to think about the design of a family. We really want a baby. We looked at the costs of day care and kindergartens and found that we would have a monthly obligation of 300 euros on our salary. This would leave 300 euros for the life of a three-member family and thus we cannot survive. I am sure that this case illustrates a situation which unfortunately is common to many citizens and citizens of the younger generation. This isn't a lonely case. And from this we can see that young people are on their way to building a family; the desired goal that we all promote together; there is an economic and social situation. And that's not in case he wants a couple to have five kids, it's in case he wants one alone. That is why I am addressing the following question to Ministers Lukšić and Svetlik. First of all, in the opinion of Minister Lukšić: Would it not make sense to take into account not only the wages but also those necessary costs to solve the housing problem when calculating parental obligations to pay for kindergarten? And the question to Minister Svetlik: What are the country's systemic plans to protect the position of the Slovenian medium layer? When we talk about social policy, we think mainly of those with the lowest income, well, in our case, and this also shows a lot of research, and we are faced with the trend that the medium layer is becoming increasingly low. That is why we need to talk about social security, and we also need to have in mind a medium layer that is critically decreasing and passing into a lower layer. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u212	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Dear Members, Members! That's a problem we're aware of at the Ministry. Of course, it is a question that we intend to solve in the long run in such a way as to make kindergarten free for everyone. Now for 20% of children involved in kindergarten, parents do not pay to have their children involved. Gradually, the former government predicted that this share would increase. I think that's a good way. In the short term, however, it is the responsibility to determine the level of payment of kindergartens in the hands of municipalities. Some municipalities already have this option included in this case of initiative, says when it comes to loans to solve the housing problem, some municipalities that are financially able to do so have decided to reduce the payment of the kindergarten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u214	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Member, thank you for the question. As regards the Ministry of Labour, I should say that the measures taken by this Ministry protect the situation of all social groups, including the medium layer. Of course, by means of a social transfer policy, we ensure, in particular, the social security of the most vulnerable groups of the population. However, I agree that attention is also paid to the medium layer today. As a concrete measure, I should point out that at the Ministry we have already ordered a study to assess the cost of living and thus the appropriateness of the amount of these transfers and of the minimum income. Another area in which the active employment policy, which I have already talked about today, does not exist and would not repeat the types of these measures and programmes we are implementing, is that they are the best guarantee that the situation, work and employment are maintained and improved. Let me also stress when we talk about protecting all social groups, that a whole range of transfers that are not just limited to a lower layer, especially those relating to children, family, students, students, nutrition, for example, is such a transfer. As a key answer to this question of yours, as far as the situation of the middle layer is concerned, I would say the following. For this, it is essential to restructure the economy, including the abolition of unsolicited and the opening up of highly demanding and thus well-paid jobs. The development so far, although dynamic in recent years, was mainly based on increasing labour intensity and flexibility, while the quality of jobs remained relatively low. We are in a position where new jobs are barely providing minimum wage, and this of course hardly ensures that employees do not fall below the poverty threshold. And without restructuring the economy in this direction, we will not be able to protect the middle class. The three measures I can and have already been taken in the first and second packages are: increased facilitation of investment in equipment, co-financing of development investment projects and the purchase of new equipment and support for projects and clean and technologically advanced industries. In short, in this direction the government has to work if we want the middle layer not to become a lower layer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u217	Thank you very much for both your answers. First of all, Dr. Lukšič, this initiative, I predict that I will also drive within the local environment. I think you're right when you say it's the jurisdiction of the congregations. However, I expect the Ministry to play a cumulative role here, especially at this time. And perhaps with examples of good practice, because you say that some municipalities have already introduced this, this path should also be shown to other Slovenian local communities. Dr. Svetlik, thank you for your answer, too. Your academic career shows that you have good insight into the position of the entire population. And I agree with you that it is only quality work and employment that guarantees a good social situation. The fact is, in Slovenia too, we are faced with the fact that work is not yet enough to exceed the poverty threshold. The measures you mentioned calm me down in this regard and I believe that we will achieve the objectives set this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek will ask the Minister of Public Administration a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u219	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister of Public Administration! With your general answer to my written question regarding the supervision and management of the records of the permanent and temporary residence of public servants, I was not exactly satisfied, for in the answer you have skillfully redirected the matter, i.e. the misuse of the fictitious address of the permanent residence of the policeman to pay the costs of arrival or departure from work, to the Ministry of Interior or to the competent chairman, i.e. to the Director-General of the Police. I also consider that there is an irrelevant legal explanation in the procedures and regulations of the service or the inability to deliver mail, as was the case with a policeman who did not actually reside at the registered address of the residence, but who unlawfully "cashed" the cost of coming to work. The inability to deliver mail in this case was merely a consequence and evidence of the service of the offence. What is of interest to me is your actions and actions regarding the practical implementation of the supervision and records of public servants' residences, since the compensation for travel costs or abuse of such staff represents a considerable financial item in the budget expenditure of the Republic of Slovenia. Especially today's crisis could also contribute significantly in this area to the rational spending of budgetary resources. Only in the specific case of abuse of the address of permanent residence is a few thousand euros, and this is probably not an isolated case. I want to know: Are you, or will you, and in what way will you repay such unjustifiable, unlawful compensation for travel expenses? And after all: Is the Ministry of the Interior, or will the Ministry of the Interior, take appropriate action in such cases and also sanction such offences or abuses? This question, however, would have previously been addressed to the Minister of the Interior, Mrs Kresalov, but unfortunately she is not present. But I could serve her here with concrete evidence, with dates, with months, and even with the calculation of the costs abused, the rights to compensate for the costs. It's actually your department to keep records, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Mr Györek, I regret that we were unable to respond in writing to you in any other way than to explain to you what legal bases and how they regulate the supervision of an individual public servant, in so far as there is a suspicion that the travel costs he receives are not justified. Under the Public Service Act, the Ministry of Public Administration is indeed the competent system ministry for the system of public servants, but it does not have any legal basis for the direct supervision of all civil servants. However, the individual chairman of the body in which the public servant is employed not only the right but also the duty to monitor whether the travel costs are in the manner in which they are paid in accordance with the actual situation. 33.a Article 33a of the Law on Public Servants indisputably imposes on the chairman of the body where the staff member is obliged to determine the actual situation where the chairman has information on the grounds for suspicion of abuse. Not only that, such abuse given by an individual public servant, which has indicated a permanent or actual residence that has been the basis for calculating the compensation for travel costs, but such a statement has been made in writing in accordance with the Reimbursement Regulation; it personally responds to the fact that it actually resides on the address given to the chairman to pay the costs on that basis. What the chairman can do when he finds out; and what you say you know about an individual case; and if you make a statement to the chairman of this individual public servant that there is a suspicion that the address that this civil servant actually reported did not actually live and that he abused this his, simply, duty, even under the employment contract, where he himself indicated where he actually lives, even in this act and that he would fairly exercise the rights of the employment contract, the chairman is obliged to carry out the procedure. This procedure may also result in the termination of the staff member's employment relationship. In the light of the findings of this procedure, in so far as the infringement would really be concerned, it is possible, on the basis of the provisions of the Labour Relations Act, which also applies to civil servants in this part, to cancel the employment contract exceptionally, since in this case there is a certain breach of the obligations of the employment relationship. The procedure for monitoring and implementation of the Civil Service Act has been entrusted and entrusted to the chairman of the body in which the individual public servant is employed. It should be known that a single ministry is unable to monitor the system of 34,000 employees in the public administration. However, it is the duty of the law, as a system ministry, to provide for appropriate procedures. We believe that the procedures that the legislation provides for today are appropriate. However, it is your question whether the chairpersons exercise full and sufficient care to control this issue. Even this dilemma is justified. If it is the head of the body with many employees - or perhaps there is something hidden there that smells like abuse of this right. It should be known, however, that public officials are looking so hard at the data that it is almost always accurate. They are also aware of their responsibilities in many cases. I suggest you send this body your suspicions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u223	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You've made it very clear to me. You're right. But there is something to say again that it is a shame that Mrs Kresalov is not here. Because I could help her with the numbers that her public servant was registered at a permanent residence, say, since 17. 9. 2007 until December 2008 at the Permanent Address of Gorica 75, this is in Prekmurje. At the same time, he had a registered temporary residence, since 5. 3. 2008 to 5. 3. 2009 It will now expire because after one year the temporary residence will automatically expire if you do not extend it. In fact, this is the third residence, which he has been registered since December 2008 at Murska Sobota on Razlogova 22, when he learned that we had learned about this matter. Well, since 17. 9. By December 2008, he illegally "cashed" money for transport costs. Now you tell me: How is it possible for a person to have a permanent residence in one place, temporarily in another place, but not in any of these to live, but to have a third place, and that no one keeps records of it? Because, after all, it's worth a lot of money. And in these times of crisis, if this control is not systematically resolved here, do I really not see whether this law on residences, permanent and temporary, makes sense?Oh, my God! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u224	Thank you very much. You want an answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u225	If you can. The residence is that category which is important for the reimbursement of transport costs to and from work. The actual residence may be located in accordance with existing legislation in the Republic of Slovenia under the title of permanent or temporary residence. But there can't be a third address. If you have indicated this case to the Head of Authority as a suspected case, he will have to act in accordance with the legislation I explained earlier and this public servant who, according to your assessment, misused his duty to apply his actual residence, sanction it in accordance with existing legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u227	Thank you, Mr. Honourable Vice President. Dear Minister. Dear Minister. Colleagues and colleagues. State scholarships for the 2008/2009 school year were granted under the new Law on Scholarships, which brought a lot of bad will to candidates. In the case of single-parent family candidates, it would be reasonable to include a family member in the calculation of income on a family member or to maintain the old provision of the Regulations on scholarships from the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No. 48/99 and others. Single - parent families are in a much worse position than they were before the amendment of this law after the law is now in force. What prompted me to ask this question today? In my office, a Mura worker, who has about 400 euros in salaries, has two children. A primary and a high school student is given a family pension after his father's death. They live 10 km from the first railway station. The baby has to go to school at 6:00 in the morning at Mursko Sobota. Mother is forced to drive it in the morning by her starting work at 7:00. This brings her extra expenses. They certainly have a major problem or are in great trouble. I have to say that my mother told me, from the beginning I cried, then I wrote letters to the President of the State, to the Ombudsman, to the President of the Government and some others, I lost all hope, hope that the children I have must be raised and brought to bread. Now I've turned to you. In the National Assembly, you have the opportunity to amend this legislation. I therefore ask the distinguished Minister: When, if he proposes, will the situation of single - parent applicants be resolved?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u229	Thank you very much for the question, Member. It's true what you say. The current law, which was adopted in 2007, does not contain a specific provision for candidates for single-parent scholarships, as previously regulated in the scholarship legislation before the adoption of the existing law. In February of this year, our ministry has drafted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Scholarships, which provides for an amendment to Article 13, which should introduce higher censorship in a uniform manner, which is 65% for all candidates for the State grant, which, on the one hand, significantly simplifies the system of scholarships and, on the other hand, contributes to the pursuit of our key objective, namely the acquisition of a state grant and assistance in education, and the study of a larger number of candidates from socially weaker families. In doing so, I stress that we have given special attention to the category of candidates coming from single-parent families and also to candidates for a state grant with special needs. For these candidates, the proposal for legislative amendments foresees an even higher price, which is 70% of the minimum wage. This means, if we compare the data between the current and the predicted state that from 31. 12. 2008 shows that we have awarded 37,563 scholarships and have also awarded 9,363 scholarships. By implementing the novel proposed, however, the number of scholarships at the expense of raising the price to 65% would increase by approximately 1,800 scholarships. In addition, it is difficult to estimate how much, at the expense of increasing the number of candidates exercising the right to a scholarship in view of the 70 % censorship raised when it comes to single-parent families and candidates with special needs. If this law is adopted; we are coming to Parliament in the coming weeks; it can be applied for the next study year and we will therefore allocate six and a half million additional funds, or so many more beneficiaries will be able to receive this grant. I hope that the affected will also be able to obtain an appropriate scholarship in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres will ask the Minister of Culture a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u231	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers! Dear colleague, dear colleagues welcome! In the Slovenian People's Party, we are concerned about recent events in Ljubljana since 14 February 2009 because of our view that capital interests are no longer a cultural monument of state importance. We are also very concerned about the alleged renovation of Plečnik Stadium beyond Bežigrad and also about the state of some of the other Plečnik works. We are convinced that the recent practice of purchasing cultural objects at a price that does not reach the real value of the land on which they stand is a very serious damage to Ljubljana's architectural heritage. It happens that new owners either leave these objects to collapse or there are such reconstructions that have nothing to do with the foundation anymore. This causes invaluable cultural damage to Ljubljana and our country and also reduces its tourist potential. It is clear that in Ljubljana they do not attract or attract new construction, but mainly architectural heritage, which is a significant proportion of the works of Jožet Plečnik. We fear that there is also a danger that the current authorities will make selections between the Belečnik's works, those that are superior, and those that are less superior or should not be. For us, everything Plečnik has done is of superior quality and worth considering the highest rank. Dr. France Prešeren also created wicked works when he created his own works. And our ancestors have preserved these works, and this is now available to all of us, so they have not shared in a more quality or less quality, for which we can thank them and this can be a great example for us. Madam Minister of Culture, after your past work and conduct, which has been visible to the public, I think that you are a person who has an excellent feeling and a positive attitude towards cultural heritage, culture and Slovenia in general. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, the Municipal Committee of the Slovenian People's Party of Ljubljana and on my behalf I ask you: Don't you think it makes sense for us and the Ljubljana mayor to create this kind of treatment for the parts of Jože Plečnik and for these parts, as for every Slovenian and Ljubljanaian, respectable and responsible conduct? Will you support the programme of protection and preservation of the entire heritage of architect Jožet Plečnik and provide adequate high funds for the implementation of this programme in the coming years? What will you do to prevent the grave from intrusion of capital into the area of historical heritage? And: As Minister of Culture, do you see yourself as the guardian of cultural heritage? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u232	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u233	Dear Guido, thank you so much for asking. Not only do I support it, but I'm going to do my best to protect Plečnik's legacy. The protection of Plečnik's heritage has been promised in the past. We expected either a decree or a marriage that would fully protect the heritage, but that did not happen. There was only one protection, and this protection of something that has already been protected; I am talking about the market in Ljubljana. As you are aware, the Ljubljana market is protected by the Decree declaring the medieval city core of Stara Ljubljana and the castle hill as a cultural and historical monument and as a natural landmark. My predecessor temporarily protected it at the state level and we defrosted this protection for very simple reasons - it went beyond what was necessary, it says, even to Pogačar's market, while at the same time preventing some of the interventions that are now being prepared, but I am not talking about the garages, I am also talking about the Mesar Bridge, and perhaps a simple intervention into the asphalt to repair the sewerage. But what I want to tell you is that this temporary decree has happened - let's let it happen before the elections, the Minister has published it without knowledge of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage and the Directorate for Cultural Heritage, led by the Pelčnikologist, Mr Damjan Prelovšek. Let us remember when I commented because the media wanted some of us to comment on why this protection was and I understood it as a nagging to the mayor, and I explained it to the media, Mr Prelovšek, then at the Ministry, and I here, warned that he did not agree with such protection, because he was also involved in the recasting competition around the market and was in favour of certain interventions and he was right. What I want to say is that the Minister kept it in a drawer or whatever, he failed to implement the promised law on the protection of Plečnik's heritage and also the decree, which has actually been written or far-reaching. I don't know why he's staying there, we're now coordinating him, and we're getting our final agreement with the landowners, so that the decision on the protection of Plečnik in Ljubljana and in the wider area of Ljubljana, including the monuments you asked about, will be protected. We would like more protection to extend to a wider part of Slovenia. I admit that this is such a big deal, quite difficult, because each parcel needs to be discussed separately and included in the dialogue, but this is the kind of desire. But what I mean is, more, not just for Plečnik, who is certainly the master of our past in the field of architecture, but the question needs to be raised further. And I'm glad the modern young generation is doing it. And that in scientific and other contributions he also thinks about predecessors or younger architects after Plečnik. The Glanz who made this house, but not good, because the one who was protected is no longer, the halls, but the Glanz, the Vurnik, Fabiani Kristle, the Yugovec, and all others who need to be careful not to have any barbaric intervention. It is not necessarily just a matter of capitalists that you recognize as that evil today. But, look, they can buy one way or another, for some things, thank God that, because of the state, for example, or the local community leaves many things to go. A typical example is the Colosseum, when we're not, I'm going to say that I'm going to move to maybe use it in time for the right purposes and take care of protection. But the state must create conditions for this to be done, that is, protection, perhaps by decrees, perhaps by laws that, as I say, will come to the fore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u234	Thank you. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u235	Thank you very much for your answer, Madam Secretary. I was sure that I would get a good answer and I am also sure that you will serve this matter well and I wish you success. I must say that I also appeal to the fact that cultural heritage is preserved throughout Slovenia, including the works of architect Jožet Plečnik. And I have to say that in Lithuania his product - a monument I fall into the NOB, and we are proud of this work. We preserve and have it in municipal protection. Thank you again very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. The question will be asked by the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u237	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, Minister and colleague of Parliament and fellow Members. When I drove to Ljubljana this morning, I met a worker who went to work at 6:00 a.m., and they told her to go home because she wasn't working. The opening sentence, which reminded me that the following should be asked, Mr Minister for Family Work and Social Affairs. First time. In what way do the Ministry or the competent employment authorities exercise control over the implementation of the Law on partial full-time subsidisation? Another time. The deadline for lodging applications for full-time subsidisation is 30. This year's 9th. We are interested in: How many Slovenian companies have already applied for subsidies? And: How many Slovenian companies have they already been granted? Third time. We want to know: In what way will the actual working hours of workers in companies that have submitted applications for full-time subsidisation, or how will employment agencies check whether workers actually work 36 and 32 hours? And: Will they be prevented from being forced by their employers to work long hours and overtime? The sum of all these questions, believe me, but we do not like to believe that we already know in the Slovenian National Party, this is again a black profit to the owners of the companies, according to the trump line, a great patriarchy. If that is not the case, if you answer these three questions to make control hard and demanding, I will be very happy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u238	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Member, thank you for the question. First, the information you wanted. On 24 February, so less than one month after we passed this Act, 309 applications for a subsidy under this Act were submitted to the Employment Institute, referring to 37,024 employees. To date, 168 applications and 30 contracts have been approved, but in accordance with the need to supplement these applications, to be reviewed before the signature of the contract takes place. And here's the thing about surveillance. The law in Article 6 provides that the Employment Office shall exercise control over the allocation and payment of the subsidy and the implementation of the contract. When granting a subsidy, the institution shall verify whether all the requested data on the employer has the role of all the requested data on the subsidy, that is, the number of months, the number of hours of the working week, the amount of the subsidy and the like: whether the application is made by all the requested annexes, that is, the list of employees involved in the action, the collective agreement or the general act of the employer setting out 36 hours, full time or the agreement concluded between the employer and the representative union, if that working time is even shorter. See also if all the annexes are materially appropriate. So much for role-control. At the time of payment of the subsidy will be the institution; for the time being, it will not pay anything, but will pay in accordance with the contracts; the institution will cross the data on workers involved in the measure and data to check whether the workers are still employed by the employer. At the halfway point of the implementation of the subsidy and before the last application is paid, or whenever it is received by trade unions, media or the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work that the employer does not pay the employees involved or the mandatory contributions, he will formally check this by cross-checking the data with the Tax Office. The full-time work subsidy contract concluded between the institution and the employer provides that the contracting parties agree that the institution and the other competent authorities in the Republic of Slovenia have the right to administrative and financial monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the measure and to control the use of the allocated funds. In addition to the already mentioned data crossing with the Health Insurance Office and the Tax Office, on-the-spot checks can also be carried out, i.e. with the employer, at any time during the employer's working time. However, it must provide insight into computer programmes, documents and procedures relating to the implementation of subsidisation. During the implementation of this measure, the Institute will systematically verify 15% of the randomly selected beneficiaries of subsidies and anyone for whom it will receive a complaint of infringement. The appropriate monitoring of full-time subsidisation will also be facilitated by the public publication of the employers receiving the subsidies and the supervision of workers by the union. The union here, as you can see from the media, is already exercising quite thorough control over what is happening in individual companies. The first checks of individual employers by the Labour Inspectorate were carried out during the first month of implementation of this measure, mainly on the basis of union warnings. So for now, we have things under control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, another answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u241	Thanks for the answers. Additional question: Mr Minister, is it the employer's duty to keep regularly informed about the course of events at this time of recession, or is it just a matter of work to be done by the Employment Service and all involved in cross-examination, as you mentioned, because I listened very carefully to you. So does the employer have a duty to report regularly on the situation? And the second question: What is the role of the inspectorate, any person responsible for such events? Is there a legal or a submarital basis? So: What kind of work or role does any inspectorate have at this level, the level of legal or sub-legal acts at the start of the grant? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u242	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u243	Therefore, as far as reporting is concerned, each employer must report monthly the number of employees involved in this programme because this can change because of different circumstances. As far as the role of inspection is concerned, it is not specified in this law, but it is true that trade unions now point to certain infringements of the Labour Relations Act when working hours are being reduced, and on this basis labour inspection can also be provided.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u244	What can I do for you, Mr. Barovich? Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u245	Thank you very much. For the correct and concrete answers, I thank the Minister, to the extent he has them. I estimate, however, that according to the big problem, allow one sentence to be illustrated, Gorenje, a shareholder company, received according to the data I have, subsidies for 4700 workers and there employed 5,300 people. What's the difference? But I'm not gonna ask that. Because of the importance of this data, because of the importance of control, because of the importance of everything that happens to people, they say to them at 6 a.m., "Goodbye. Go home, you have no work"; on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, on the basis of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that this be discussed at the next, not the second, meeting of the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u246	Thank you very much. The vote on your proposal will be in the vote tomorrow. Mr Dusan Kumer will ask a question from the Member States to the Secretary-General of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u247	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Apparently, in Slovenian politics, some cannot renounce the ugly habit of digging through archival material and, here and there, allegedly also illegally adopt and store it in private, even client, archives and, if necessary, use it for daily political accounting with their political rivals and opponents. Several such cases have been known in recent years, such as the carrying of suitcases with documents after this Parliament and the subsequent publication of almost one million citizens of Slovenia, and alleged co-workers of the former UDBE on the world web, which still serves as a political food to satisfy the frustrations of some political actors, and the SOVA affair and the alleged behaviour of archival material under the cover of the relocation of court records in the history of the Slovenian Archives, until the fresh case of the previous week, when the talks about magnetograms that were not supposed to have been cited on national television. Also in the pre-transmission works of the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Milana M. Szwikl showed evidence of alleged irregularities in photocopying more than 30,000 copies of government documents. Therefore, a special expert committee was also set up in December 2008 to investigate the case of this suspicious photocopying. Under the law, the Inspectorate of the Interior, the Information Commissioner and the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Culture were also informed of the likely violation of the Secret Data Act and the Law on the management of documentary archival material. I therefore ask you, Madam Secretary-General, why have you decided to set up a special expert commission for this investigation? What are her results? What could be the consequences for potential violators?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary General of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u249	Thank you very much. On 22 November 2008, the Government appointed me Secretary-General at its 1st meeting. The same day I had an early morning handover between an old, former secretary-general and my trifle. A set of two files also contained the Commission's report on the acquisition and review of documentary material with date 17. 11. 2008 where it was stated in the last paragraph that a committee appointed in the previous term to take over the material from Župančičeva 3 has joined the list of individual funds taken over by Zupančičeva 3 and the material located in the premises at Gregorčičeva 20. It is said that the material with the property of archival material should be 17. 11. 2008 transferred to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia. When I met my new colleagues, I was also aware of the irregularities that occurred in the previous mandate regarding the description of the archive material. I was warned that this sentence was a long shot. In particular, that the inventory of individual documentary funds was carried out in the premises of Gregorčičva 20, known as Archive B and Archive C. Archive B, containing all government material from 1990-2000, including documents of the degree of secrecy internal, confidential and secret, the material of the Government, records of regular and written meetings of the Government, and magnetograms of meetings, personal maps, the material of the protocol from 1964-1988, the Office of Nationality, the material of the Cabinet of the President of the Government of Slovenia and the materials of some other commissions. While in the archive under code C they have kept payment sheets since 1945, building administration materials, building plans, specifications, adaptations of buildings, house and apartment purchase contracts, plans purchased by the state and sold to individuals. In short, there were indications that in the so-called acquisition of documentary material at Zupancheva 3, and the materials located at the premises at Gregorčičeva 20, known as the archives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the General Secretariat, the cases were not carried out professionally. I have therefore set up a commission to review the archives of the General Secretariat of the Government and to assess the state of archival and documentary material in terms of the rules on the protection of documentary and archival material and the rules on the protection of classified information and to prepare more detailed information. The first is the fact that the Executive Archives Service of the General Secretariat of the Government handed over the keys of archive B and Archive C to this government commission, the Commission of the former Government for the takeover and review of documentary material, and took the keys back to my presence only on 6 January 2009, and that it had installed a new photocopying machine in those premises in early December 2007 and until 20. 11. 2008 produced more than forty-four thousand copies of documents, of which two thirds after 20 September, according to the 2008 elections, was of course an indication that something was seriously wrong with the so-called formal takeover of the material and the broadcast of it in the Republic of Slovenia Archives. During this whole period, it was found that the experts of the archival office of the General Secretariat of the Government did not have access to archives B and C, so only the staff or special government commission, whose composition can be explained very carefully later. Then it was just before taking over and replacing the government in that week, 17. 11. On the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia a few ten running metres of archive material, and of course in this way cut off the ten-year work of the archives to the effect that the material is properly arranged. As the rest of the C-Archive has not been properly implemented, I, of course, have taken steps that the Government has also supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u251	Thanks again for saying that. Thank you for this part of the answer. I must say that I am not personally surprised because I was in one of those stories, which I mentioned earlier, in 2006 - 2007 and in part 2008, when the logistics process was completely the same. In this case, too, I find that this commission has been staying in these premises for a year, which is twelve months. I am interested in a very specific answer to the following question: What will the Government and how will the Government react and what will it do if the indications are confirmed that there has been an abuse of the allegedly alienated material and this material will appear again, as I said before, in a daily political account on the political party scene in Slovenia? This isn't the first time it's happened, but I think it's time to end it. I'm asking: Does the government and those responsible in the government have a scenario to prevent these things from happening in the future?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u252	Mr. Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u253	First of all, it is necessary to ensure what the Government has also ordered the expert services of the General Secretariat of the Government, this is to review the material and to review it as permanent material; the material that is also permanently left in the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia; and to determine the material that is indeed permanent material. Before that, the entire material shall be properly recorded on microfilms in accordance with the procedures that have been in progress since 1979, providing a copy of the dedicated materials. You must know that the unregulated way of transferring documentation to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia has significantly cut across the entire history of the types of events in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why I will not be surprised, I am now speaking politically, not as the Secretary-General of the Government, if certain documents appear and are found in the archives, of course, we will not be able to find them. These last stories of some magnetograms are like that. A particular problem with this material was that it was performed by the staff; or individuals, and I cannot even appoint students because some boast that they did so with counterfeit student cards; they do not have permission to work with classified data. That is why I have also informed the Office for the Protection of Secret Data and the competent service. I expect that, to the extent that the information officer and the competent authorities have already started some discussions, they will also report relatively quickly to the General Secretariat. I must say, it is also fundamental what the Government wants to do in this regard, the following. We first want to ensure that the Archive of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is re-established, as required by the archival and documentary profession, and here we count on the full cooperation of the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to these documents, if these documents were to be made public, I think that it would also be possible, on the basis of a report from this Commission, on the basis of the confirmed material at the government meeting and the findings of the competent authorities, to establish that they were obtained in an illegal manner and to take appropriate action against these individuals. How's it going? I think it's very bad if the archives are being made for the purpose of political abuse. That is why we have done everything in the General Secretariat of the Government to establish the conditions for the archives to be re-established at the location where they are to be, through the Commission's takeover report. Send all archive documentation within the deadlines to the archive [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mrs Mag will raise the question to the Minister for Education and Sport. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u255	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, honourable Members! In the knowledge society, lifelong education is also an important part, among other things, of social integration. The public interest in achieving the short- and long-term objectives of the resolution on the national adult education programme also puts the human universities at the centre of these programmes. Let us leave it aside that some wanted to see them as the rest of the former time, and in fact most of them were created in the middle of the previous century, some even in the 20s or before, for example, Celian or Mariborian. However, public universities carry out a series of tasks in the education of adults like the 25 important Andragog centres, which are not so interesting for other adult educators. Indeed, the statistics show that ten percent of the work is done among performers, but one third of those who attend language classes do so in human universities. The percentage I was talking about is due to the fact that the vast majority of adult education is linked to the acquisition of driving skills. But people's universities are directing their programs into the education of vulnerable groups of the population, that's those programs whose market value or profit is not like that. As public institutions, however, they must not create and use this in any other way than to expand their own activities. Programmes to raise the general educational and cultural level of the population, and human universities are the only ones still providing primary education for adults, and among infrastructure activities the most well-known programmes for smallpox are called PUM. What I am asking you, Mr Minister, is: How do you see in your education strategy the city of human universities in formal and informal forms of education? How can they help them to develop this public service for which they are trained and designed? How can they not finally resolve fundamental existential issues? I wonder: What activities are being or are being planned to ensure a stable system of funding for human universities? What role do you play in the future? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u256	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u257	First of all, thank you so much for asking. Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Madam Minister, Member of Parliament and Members of Parliament, fellow Ministers! In fact, the question of human universities is too much at stake, given the role of the human university in the school system or the system of education and education. Especially in recent years have many been before the fall and have actually lived. They have major liquidity problems especially when European projects are being implemented, because they simply do not have the resources to support projects themselves in the way envisaged in this funding system. That is why we are negotiating with the Ministry of Finance to release some advances when universities receive such funds so that they can even run for funds of this kind without this inability to further deter them from even running for office. The next issue is to speed up the preparation of the annual education programme at the Ministry for 2009 and 2010. This annual education programme is a source of funding for these human universities. If this program is delayed, then universities will not be able to recover until the second half of the year. That seems to be in our power, and we can do that. And the third thing, which is of a systemic nature, is to look at the network of human universities within the school network and try to rationalize this network or then support it. This is an area they have in mind that we have dealt with, but it is a legacy of the past that we will have to resolve in the end with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u258	Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u259	Thank you. Mr Minister, I thank you for your reply and your willingness to systematically regulate this important area. I expect that the problem of financing, of obtaining funds, which almost destroyed the vast majority of human universities, will be solved because they had to rent bridging loans. One of the largest such institutions, which operates in Maribor, the Andragog Institute, the Human University, is an example of a successful Andragog institution, which also achieves recognition in international environments. I see that they can still promise a slightly more systematic and quality solution to the problem. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk alone will ask the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology a question. Mr. Secretary apologized earlier than you know. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u261	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Next year we will celebrate the 200th anniversary of the Botanical Garden of the University of Ljubljana. The botanical garden is thus our oldest cultural, scientific, educational institution with continuous activity. The founder of the garden was Idrijčan Franc Hladnik, a priest, a professor at the Ljubljana High School, who as a prefect also signed Prešeren's certificates. At the same time, he was an excellent botanist, who was also appreciated outside Kranjska, for example, in the imperial Danube. From the Illyrian provinces to the independent Slovenia, the garden has experienced and survived a great deal. Last year, however, was one of the most critical in recent times. After the end of the funding by the Municipality of Ljubljana, calls for the status and financing of the Botanical Garden were made throughout last year. Last October, the government declared the garden a cultural monument of state importance. However, minimum intervention funding was also provided, as the garden was just before it was closed. Despite encouraging progress, however, the status relationship between the municipality and the university has not yet been established, nor is there adequate funding by the Government, since the garden is financially and human resourcesly undernourished. For many years it has also been envisaged to expand the Botanical Garden to a new location within the Biological Centre on the Eternal Path in Ljubljana. The garden was also included in a set of development projects of the previous government for the period up to 2023. Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Mr Gregor Golobic, I ask: How will you manage your relationship with the municipal community, because the cooperation promised by Mayor Jankovic was not achieved? I also wonder: Are the regular financing of the garden and planned investments in light of the upcoming 200-year-olds now available? At the same time, I ask the Minister: Do the Ministry and Government plan to participate in the dignified marking of the Botanical Garden in the jubilee year 2010? I ask the Minister to give me an oral answer to the questions raised at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u262	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Dr Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Svetlik! Last summer, the Government of Janez Janša in the National Assembly proposed the adoption of a law on a so-called one-off supplement. Pensioners with the lowest income received about 100 euro in addition. Left-wing parties, then the opposition, made it clear that they were pre-election mints, collecting election points at the expense of taxpayers. But these people received this money, whatever you called it back then. Of course, the former SD Member Matei Kožuh Novak, a representative or president of the pension organisation, also made this move by the government of Janez Janša as a bad move, despite the fact that the pensioners received these funds. Before the elections there were such and different promises, I will not repeat them, because those who spent much of their time in Slovenia are not even here. However, after the elections, the time of cruel reality came and the promises of high pensions turned into a 300-euro fight supplement to the lowest pensions. But look at the fragment, that's not all. One or two days before the signing of the coalition agreement, a clause was added in accordance with the general financial situation. It would be better to write: never. But that's what it says in this document. Since it's supposed to be there in January and probably the other half a little later, I'm asking you: When will this matter be realized? The party DeSUS is talking about calling you for a chat. I'm afraid this will remain on the relationship between you and the executive committee of DeSUS. I would, however, be interested in this a little bit wider, so that the Slovenian public would have one clearer answer. Of course, the question concerns 100,000 or 200,000 as you cover this population. I would therefore ask for one rather exact answer, not the one after the crisis. I don't care about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u264	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. This appendix, which you are referring to, is a matter at the end of the coalition partners' agreement and their mutual agreement. Our position and our assessment of the current situation is that the pension system must be judged in the light of social justice and solidarity, and therefore must bear part of the burden of all the inhabitants of this country during the financial crisis. In order to calm down economic activity in 2008 and the financial recession, it is necessary to verify the adequacy of all payments, both wages and pensions already made and other transfers, while also checking the appropriateness of coordinating all these transfers. Let me tell you how this coordination process has been carried out in the past year. Pensions were harmonised in February by 3.8% and by 3.2% respectively and in November by 4.6%, taking into account the autumn forecast of the estimated salary increase paid for the period January-September 2008. In view of the current economic situation and trends, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development published a new estimate of wage growth, which was lower by 0.5%, which means that autumn harmonisation was higher than wage increases. Therefore, the new data was taken into account in the current alignment at the beginning of the year when pensions were harmonised by 3.5 and 2.9% respectively, from 1. 1. 2009 A different assessment of wage increases in 2009 means that the commitments of coalition parties and the coalition contract must also be seen in terms of social and public financial sustainability. In view of the harmonisation of pensions at a higher rate than the wages actually agreed, and given the deflation, we believe that there are currently no conditions for paying this special allowance to pensioners whose pensions are the lowest. In the future, we will also monitor wage movements and the movement of living costs. And in the event of a deterioration in the material situation of pensioners, they acted immediately. The Association of Retirement Associations was also informed of the reasons for such conduct or for the failure to pay the allowance. They have shown understanding for such an assessment as I have just stated. Notwithstanding the above, the coalition agreement remains in our judgment and will also be implemented when the circumstances are right. In particular, I would like to point out that at that time it will be necessary to consider who really receives this precious supplement. Or are those with the lowest pensions that could otherwise be in a materially good position, what happened last year, or those who may even have higher pensions materially in a worse situation? And then this is a technical issue that we will have to resolve when we make an appropriate decision or special law, if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Svetlik. I understand you, and I thank you for your answer, because I am aware that there is nothing else you can say. However, understand me that I want to use this time to introduce you to the next one. September, last August last year in my residence Šmarje pri Jelšah, Rogaška Slatina, Pod Thursday was Mr Karl Erjavec, President of DeSUS, a very common guest. At one such meeting, I must say, there were 500 pensioners, I was also present there, although I am not a pensioner, as you know, fanfare, drumming, chanting, addressing your eminence there followed, the goulash in half an hour were paid by the pensioners themselves. I believe that this has also changed the political picture in this House. I'm not asking you this, but I just find out, and at the same time, I believe that the 1,000 Euros that Minister Erjavec has been talking about, he says on a conditioner, and the simple people of Kozian, you know, understand otherwise. They understand that's going to happen. That's the way it is. It would be good if, in the short term, this is realized that pensioners receive these funds. At the same time, it must also be said that this was also known at the time of the formation of the coalition agreement, and not least, some ministers held back when they saw this dictatorship. Mr President, I would somehow like to ask, I do not expect an answer from the Minister. However, if you find it in the Rules of Procedure that the Environment Minister would answer next time, I will be very grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u268	Thank you very much. It was a mix by the Rules of Procedure. Since this has happened several times before, I have insisted that I have not interrupted, but today this second part of the questions sent is using the Rules of Procedure, thanks, debates, is said to be a very satisfied Member with an answer, and then makes a subsequent request for hearing before the assembly. We will really have to repeat once again what this means, the question of how it is addressed, what is the request for an additional answer and what is then the request for a hearing at the assembly. Thank you. Do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u269	I have the right to a proposal under Article 246. That's all I'm suggesting, that's all. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I specifically said that I am satisfied with the work of Mr Svetlik's reply, so please, if we hold the debate under Article 246 that it will not be heard by five, six Members, but by the Slovenian public. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Once again, I'm going to say that you didn't get the supplementary answer, or you didn't ask the question. This is said to be beyond what you've asked for. That concludes it. Mr Mag will ask the question of the message. Mr Radovan Žerjav, Minister of the Interior and Minister of Justice. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, dear colleagues! I would apologize to both the Minister and the Minister that, in fact, they had a question, as I saw on the list, at first that they both had to wait until the end. But given that it was the Patria affair, which was one of the top things before the elections, it's kind of gone to waste lately, but I'd still like to ask you two questions. I would like to begin by quoting you, Madam Minister, before the elections on this affair. On POP TV, Confronting, 4. 9. you stated the following: "Nothing has been done to reveal the truth. We in LDS have been warning for four months that we want to explain what happened to this money. Isn't it at least strange that Barbara Brezigar won't say anything about this? Are these the standards of the rule of law? I don't think it's the rule of law." In the Finances on the same day, this is supposed to be your statement: "As a result of the failure of the fundamental social processes of the effectiveness of police investigations through the independent prosecutor's office and the judiciary, after all, unforgivable journalistic research is precisely this fundamental lack of truth. The public simply doesn't get enough information." Such statements have also been made by the Minister. I could quote them, but I think that's enough. In response to my oral question at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, the Minister replied: "A joint investigation team led by the State Prosecutor has been established for the investigation. The D.A. is also directing the work of police officers. In the context of the management of the team and under the jurisdiction of the State Prosecutor, there is also a decision on the extent and content of the information to the public on the course of the investigation of the case." I myself then and also now advocated that it was right that the matter should come to the bottom, that things should be cleared up and that the public should be informed of what, how, how and how things were actually happening in this affair. So I ask you: How is the investigation in the Patria case going, and what are its results? Do you believe that information is in the public interest in relation to the course of the investigation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Madam Minister of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u273	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Dear Members! Yes, I answered similar questions, honourable Member, some month ago. I think you're right to ask. It's a matter that she really needs to get to the bottom of, and I'm happy to wait until evening to answer your question. In the Patria case, the forecasting procedure is still intensely ongoing and is still being directed by the State Attorney's Office. Indeed, a joint investigation group was established. In the opinion of the police, this is now well-cooperating and working quickly and fluently. It's a group of Finnish investigators. I would like to reiterate and point out that, given that the procedure directs the State Prosecutor's Office, all the powers to inform the public, which I believe must be properly informed, are under the authority of the State Prosecutor and that of the State Prosecutor who directs the investigation. I can't interfere with his authority on my own. So today I can say that the police are doing everything in their power to have all the conditions for work, that they can use all their powers to carry out all their actions in accordance with the law. According to her, the investigation is going well. What information, how, when, what intervention, the public will be informed of the investigation is under the authority of the Attorney General. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Justice Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u275	Thank you very much. On the basis of a request from the Ministry of Justice to prepare an answer to this question, and on the basis of previous reports from the State Attorney's Office and on the basis of the information obtained by the Ministry in the course of the implementation of the international legal assistance procedure, the Ministry has collected information it considers that it can also provide in response to this question. This means that the State Prosecutor's Office in the Republic of Slovenia independently conducts predictive proceedings against a large number of individuals and against certain persons who have not yet been identified for reasons of suspicion that different crimes have been committed. Activities shall be carried out in order to verify the offences of abuse of official status or official rights, the acceptance of unlawful intervention gifts, as well as the offence of taking bribes. In the context of the pre-trial procedure, while state prosecutors cooperate with investigative authorities of other countries, a joint investigation group of Slovenian and Finnish investigators was established. In addition, cooperation is under way on the basis of individual country requests for international legal assistance. In this context, the competent prosecutors also requested certain data from other countries, in particular on traffic in bank accounts. In order to accelerate international cooperation, Eurojust was also asked to help. As Minister, I consider such information to be important to the public, of course, taking into account the limitations arising in particular from Article 63 of the Public Prosecutor's Act. However, I would like to point out in particular that this does not oblige the Minister of Justice to verify, within his powers, that the conduct of the State Prosecutor's Office is up to date, in particular so that there is no undue delay in prosecution for unjustified reasons. And that is why today I have asked the Attorney General to complete her report, which she has presented to me today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Of course, I thank both of you for this answer. Look, the public gets the feeling, and also that the topic before the elections has been more topical, which is, last but not least, understandable. But I would have expected, given the very weight of this affair, that even after the elections we would have been so determined, perhaps so sharp that we would have done everything and more to clear up this matter as soon as possible and to settle it as necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Mr László Göncz will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. The minister's gone. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u279	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, and very persistent. From various sources, I have received information that the Republic of Austria or a group of investors intends to relatively close, less than 10 kilometres from the border with the Republic of Austria, with the Republic of Slovenia, I apologize, to install an air line incineration plant. There is no doubt that this incineration plant will, to a certain extent, worsen the quality of living in a wider province, including the northern region of Gorička in Prekmurje and the territory in the vicinity of the town of Monoster, where the Slovenians live. The presence of an incineration plant in that area could also have a negative impact on development options and on the economic guidelines of that area, especially in the relevant parts of the Republic of Slovenia. Residents of the surrounding settlements of Slovenia from a national mixed and one-language area are concerned about the events. But the fear of the Slovenians in use is even more pronounced. Some organisations are already collecting signatures to support a petition against the construction of this incinerator. Since we do not have specific information in this regard or only information from the Austrian authorities, I ask the Minister of Environment and Space: Are you aware of the possible negative effects of the planned incineration plant on the wider environment, i.e. on the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and on areas where the indigenous Slovenian minority lives in Use? Thank you very much, and I expect an answer at the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-02-SDZ5-Redna-03.ana.u280	An oral response. Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the list of Members of Parliament who have been asked questions. I thank the President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers of the Government for the answers given and thus conclude this item on the agenda. I'm adjourning the 3rd session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night.
