ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 9th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Miran Györek, Bogdan Barovič, Rudolf Petan from 17:00 on and Iztok Podkrižnik. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Second defence of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Border Surveillance under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill, Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The fundamental objective of the proposed amendments to the state border control law is to amend and supplement the law in areas that have proved to be weak and under-defined in practice and to ensure an even higher level of human legal security. The draft law repeals decisions which are no longer necessary after accession to the Schengen area. A more precise definition governs the unification of the different interpretations that occurred in practice with regard to the establishment and maintenance of traffic signs and notice tables and the possibility of the use of weapons by members of foreign security authorities accompanying the representative of that country at a visit to the Republic of Slovenia. The tasks of the police, in particular police powers, must be specifically and unequivocally regulated in the law and designed to enable the police and the individuals concerned to understand their content, scope and purpose and to understand the circumstances and conditions that permit their use. The implementation of compensatory measures, the current internal measures, shall not exceed the powers of the police in carrying out border controls. The compensatory measures are aimed at detecting and preventing all forms of cross-border crime. As the most crucial forms, I can expose irregular migration, trafficking in illicit drugs and car crime. The basic prerequisite is an internal border crossing and the increase in private intensity is regulated in accordance with the principle of the gradual application of police powers. A system-wide more appropriate regime is proposed to limit the discretion of police officers in the exercise of their powers, limit the intensity of interference with the privacy of individuals in the control of vehicles and persons and, in particular, to the exercise of the mandate to the existence of appropriate levels of prior suspicion. The Novela also proposes a shorter period for storing data on the measures implemented from the previous 10 to only 5 years. Thus, it follows increasingly high standards for the protection of personal data. In view of the amended content of the mandate, we propose the suspension of the implementation of the law in this part. The 6-month period will be dedicated to training police officers and also to building changed computer applications. The proposer considers that the solutions presented allow for the effectiveness of the Slovenian police and respect for individual fundamental rights and therefore proposes that the proposal be adopted. It also proposes that the National Assembly should adopt a decision to draw up, as a result of the content of the amendments, an official consolidated text of the law approved by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, which is the home labour force. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak for presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u4	Thank you very much. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee discussed this law at its 8th session. 9. 2009 The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Members, members of the committee, we had a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and an opinion of the Commission on the state regulation of the Council of State. Mr Klemenčič, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, gave the introductory explanation, and the Legal and Legislative Service had some comments, which were summarised and implemented in law in the form of amendments made by the coalition parliamentary groups. Mr Bogomir Vnučec, President of the Commission for the State Council, said that the Commission had examined and supported the law in question. Support was expressed in the debate for the draft law, as it aims to improve that area of work on the basis of operational findings in the implementation of the Szehengen Agreement. Members of the coalition and the opposition were united this time when this law was being considered. The amendments to Articles 6, 7, 10 and 14 were therefore unanimously adopted and adopted by the Committee on the basis of Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, together with the amendments. The text of the amended bill is an integral part of our report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position will be presented by the Magi. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good day to all of you. And hello to the minister. Colleagues and colleagues! We are considering an important and necessary amendment to the law. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Control of the State Border from a systemic and constitutional point of view sets out more precisely the circumstances in which police officers can use powers, as well as the scope and content of individual police procedures. It is also important that certain areas of this law, which have in practice proved to be flawed and not sufficiently specified, be further and precisely defined. The task of the police, in particular police powers, must be legally defined and designed so that the police and the individuals concerned understand their content, as well as their scope and purpose, and understand the circumstances and conditions that permit their application. The novelty introduces a more appropriate regime that will limit the discretion of police officers in the exercise of these powers, will also limit the intensity of interventions to the privacy of individuals in the control of vehicles and persons and the exercise of the power to bind to the existence of justified probability. We just assume, like now, it won't be enough. The main purpose of the amendments is to specify more precisely the circumstances and conditions under which police officers can use the mandate, scope and content of each stage of the police procedure. The fundamental objective is to amend and supplement the law in areas that have proved to be weak in practice, to ensure an even higher level of human legal security. For all of this, we will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Border Control in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings from the president of the National Assembly, nice greetings to the minister! The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Border Control. The proposed amendments and additions to the state border control law do not deviate from the objectives of the current law and constitute a continuation of the practice so far, but it is necessary to amend and supplement the law in areas that have proved to be weak and under-defined in practice, thus ensuring an even higher level of human legal security. The draft law does not derogate from the principles already followed in the drafting of the applicable law. In particular, the principles of legality and professionalism and proportionality are expressed. The amendments are intended to harmonise the actual and legislative situation after the abolition of border controls at our country's internal borders. The proposal also amends to simplify the different interpretations, for example Article 3 - the establishment and maintenance of traffic signs and notice tables and the powers of the authorities to implement the regulation in practice, or Article 11, because the law so far did not provide for the possibility of the use of weapons by members of foreign security authorities, and therefore the proposed amendment is necessary and restricts the use of weapons only in cases of life insurance or direct attack with which life is threatened. The most important change is that due to the changed situation it is necessary to redefine chapter 6 in a receptive and substantive manner and that this chapter is therefore renamed "regulatory measures". These are measures within the country taken by Slovenian police officers to prevent and detect cross-border crime and irregular migration at internal borders. The main purpose of the amendments is to specify more precisely the circumstances and conditions under which police officers can use the powers and the scope and content of the individual phase of police procedures, including in order to avoid unnecessary and vague interpretation of the powers of police officers in carrying out the procedures of the so-called compensatory measures. In general, the implementation of compensatory measures, which must comply with the provisions of the Schengen Borders Code, which provides that compensatory measures or controls within the territory must not have the same effect as border controls. The objective is not to control the state border, but to randomly exercise controls within the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The planning and implementation measures are clearly distinct from the systematic controls of persons at the external borders and are based on general police information and experience and are aimed at combating cross-border crime because the current definition for the law-enforcement body is too clear, since the current law contains a set of all measures carried out by internal police officers in only one article referring to the content and scope of the measures referred to in Article 2 and it was therefore necessary to supplement this chapter. The compensatory measures include police powers, documents checks, checks on persons, checks on persons, and the inspection of persons, including the powers of a police officer to require a person to show what he or she has on him or her, as well as the examination of persons and the examination of clothing, without the scope of a physical examination or a personal investigation, and the control of the transport of persons and things. The powers in the context of the implementation of compensatory measures within the country shall be exercised randomly and non-discriminatoryly by police officers against persons who have crossed the internal border and are only, if necessary, for the purpose of determining the illegal entry of verification of the legality of stay in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and of preventing and detecting irregular migration and cross-border crime. As it is said, the Group of Social Democrats will support the law in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Jožef Jerovšek has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! On the proposal for a new law on State border control in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we find that solutions are proposed that do not deviate from the objective of the law. It is the technical and substantive completion of the law in accordance with past experience, so we will support the change. It is worth noting that the State border control law adopted in the previous mandate, which has been in force since 2007, provides for the effective abolition of border controls at internal years and thus for the completion of the Schengen area. The provisions of the Law on State Border Control were designed with a view to finalising the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia with the legal order of the European Union in the field of border control. At the external border, Slovenian police officers shall exercise control in accordance with national law and Schengen standards and internal control within the framework of Article 35 of the State Border Control Act, two. Internal action is carried out randomly to detect and prevent all forms of cross-border crime. The Act also established the authorities responsible for implementing the Schengen Borders Code and legalised the solutions for the exercise of the control of future internal borders or the manner in which border controls at the internal borders of the European Union are carried out within the so-called transitional period from the moment of the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union to full association with the Schengen Area. It was also crucial to provide for the closure of cross-border road communications at the border with the Republic of Croatia in order to prevent uncontrolled crossing of the external Schengen border and irregular migration. The proposed amendment amends the provisions that made sense during the so-called transitional period, from the moment of the entry into the EU of the Republic of Slovenia to the moment of the abolition of border controls at the border with Austria, Italy and Hungary and at the internal years and regular maritime links within the Schengen countries. The provisions governing the implementation of the so-called countervailing measures are also being amended, i.e. measures within the country taken by Slovenian police officers to prevent and detect cross-border crime and irregular migration at internal borders. These follow recent legislative changes in the area of police powers and set out the objectives, manner and scope of this mandate. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that illegal migration must be prevented in accordance with European standards, not due to political persecution and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. In addition to the proposed amendments to the state border control law, we hope that the proposed solutions in the area of the implementation of countervailing measures will not lead to a deterioration of the results in the area of detection of cross-border crime and irregular migration at internal borders. As I have already mentioned, we will support the proposed amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Tadej Slapnik has the word on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u12	Dear colleagues and colleagues, President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister! Slovenia has taken appropriate measures by entering the Schengen area, and a number of practices have already emerged at this time. The fact is that these measures were quite effective has revealed many illegal refugees, stolen goods and vehicles. The fundamental objective of the novel is to amend and supplement the law in areas that have proved to be weak and under-defined in practice. In the Group of Members, however, we are particularly looking forward to amending the law in that part which provides a higher level of legal security for people. By limiting the police powers of special police units to ensure security, prevent unauthorised entry and stay in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, we are taking an important step towards reducing Slovenia's reputation as a police state. In order to ensure security in the interior of the country, which is being reduced due to entry into the Schengen area, the police have powers such as those previously existed in border control. These are the powers previously exercised by police officers at cross-border points, since, under certain conditions relating to the purpose of the task and to the location, checks could also be carried out within the country. So also on all motorways, at railway stations, in short, at all the facilities needed for cross-border transport. These powers shall include both stopping and identifying the identity and carrying out controls on passengers, means of transport and matters. During these inspections, even an intensive examination of the person for whom the law stipulated that it was not exclusively permitted to inspect the body caves and allowed, for example, the decommissioning of vehicles without a court order. Since these powers gave the police virtually very much discretion, since they were able to decide who to stop and what action to take, since there was no doubt or order, these checks were only 30 000 in 2008. These measures were also not always directed only against foreign citizens, but also against Slovenian citizens. The applicant points out that some 100 successful measures were carried out in 2008 among the 30 thousand reviews, where police officers were also able to obtain evidence and seized items. However, in the Group of Members, we do believe that the collateral damage to the remaining 29,900 persons who have been unduly examined is far too great and must be limited by the adoption of the amendment. The new State Border Control Act represents a step towards a more relaxed Slovenia, so we will really support it in the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Anton Urh has the word, on behalf of the Dessus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! Amendments to the provisions of the State border control law are primarily necessary to harmonise the actual situation after the abolition of border controls at our country's internal borders, since the current regime makes sense for a transitional period, from Slovenia's entry into the European Union to the moment of abolition of border controls at borders with Austria, Italy and Hungary. Such changes are necessary and meaningful and we attach DeSUS Members to them. The second set of innovations concerns a more sensitive and challenging area, namely the implementation of measures within the country by Slovenian police officers to prevent and detect cross-border crime and irregular migration at internal borders. Under the current law, police officers have virtually as wide a mandate for all their tasks as they had at the borders before entering the Schengen area. Both the Government and the profession estimate that these powers are insufficient and insufficiently regulated, thus ensuring the predictability of the proceedings of law enforcement authorities. In this context, the Government proposes a clearer definition of the powers of police officers, in particular a clear delimitation of when matters are under the jurisdiction of police officers and when matters fall under the jurisdiction of the judiciary. This precise demarcation alone, according to the DeSUS Group, will contribute significantly to the more effective protection of human rights and freedoms, as well as to the greater legality of the work of law enforcement authorities and judicial bodies. Members of the DeSUS will support the proposed updated text of the amendment to the state border control law with a view to remedying the shortcomings and inconsistencies included in the basic law, in particular with a view to ensuring greater legal certainty for individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u16	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary! In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, the aim is to prevent the uncontrolled crossing of the external Schengen border and irregular migration is undoubtedly supported and the proposed amendments and additions to the law on State border control. Any change with a view to ensuring the protection of Slovenian territory is always supported by the Slovenian National Party. The basic objective of the proposal is to amend and supplement the law currently in force in areas that have proved to be weak and under-defined in practice, thus ensuring an even higher level of legal certainty, as Slovenia is also obliged to exercise effective control in its territory with a view to enhancing the security of the entire Schengen area. In doing so, we certainly support a detailed, clear way of determining the functioning of the police, in particular with regard to the new institution of compensatory measures, irrespective of the fact that the same competent police officers have been received already after the law in force, and there is no harm to their more precise legal definition. In order to identify unauthorised entry, to verify the legality of residence in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and to prevent and detect irregular migration and cross-border crime, policemen may take compensatory measures against a person who is likely to cross the internal border. Despite the support of the proposed amendment, however, we would like to point out that, according to the Slovenian National Party, the proposed measures are still insufficient to effectively reduce the mass of illegal migration and crime associated with migration. The concept of 'unauthorised migration' must be understood as the movement of third-country nationals across the state border in an irregular manner, without appropriate permits and documents, as well as the implementation of activities within a country that enable such activity, such as the transport of persons who have entered illegally. I would like to ask the question here: How will state border controls take place when visas with Serbia are released? Notwithstanding the legal provision that a police officer may require a person to make an inspection of a document proving that a person has entered the Republic of Slovenia in an unlawful manner, as well as permits and documents demonstrating the legality of his stay in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and that the identity and verification of the documents and the legal address for entry into the country shall be carried out directly under the Foreigners Act. As part of my presentation on the position of the Slovenian National Party Group, I announce that, given the actual situation currently in existence in Slovenia, we will require the introduction of a visa regime for Romania in our Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word is given by Guido Kres on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, the rest of you are present. As we have already heard in the applicant's explanation, the legal provisions that have been amended by the law have made sense during the transitional period, from the moment of Slovenia's entry into the European Union to the moment of abolition of border controls at the borders with Austria, Italy and Hungary. The same applies to internal flights and regular maritime connections within the Schengen countries. Therefore, on 30 March 2008, the Republic of Slovenia joined the Schengen area and since then external border controls have been carried out in accordance with national legislation and Schengen standards. At the internal border, however, under the provisions of Article 35 of the State Border Control Act. The practice has clearly shown that, for internal measures taken to detect the prevention of all forms of cross-border crime, there is too much discretion as to when and when a measure is implemented. There have therefore been considerable inconsistencies in the cases of illegal entry of third-country nationals, as regards the theft of motor vehicles and the cross-border traffic in illicit drugs. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe it is right that the shortcomings of the law are being corrected in order to make the powers of police more clear. Certainly, the police powers in the law must be regulated in a concrete and unambiguous manner, but they must also be understood by those who are being dealt with in the process. Given that police officers in this area had a huge discretion to stop, when to stop it, what action to take, we believe that certain abuses could have occurred, and such matters should be resolved or prevented. I myself know an unpleasant case like this that happened to a friend of mine. But I am sure that by law and regulation we will certainly not achieve the desired goal. In addition to technical education, people or employees should also be educated in communication skills, psychology and the like. Therefore, at this time, we can say that we have already warned the Slovenian People's Party, that the police are being reorganised and now it is also time for such activities. According to the Secretary of State, in 2008 some one hundred hundred were successful in terms of evidence obtained, things seized and so on. Whether it's successful or not, I don't know. But I can say that this is approaching about 1% of the successful ones. Now I wonder if that's the case. I can also say that the results should not be worse, only the way to these results must be more appropriate. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect that changes to the law will bring more control over the implementation of compensatory measures, so we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the amended bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of item 2 of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the time of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Payment System in the Public Sector - A Brief Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. We've finished before, and we have to wait a moment for the government representative. If he's at the door, we'll wait, if he doesn't, I'll have to stop the session. At the doors of the National Assembly building, not at the city gates of the former. Mobility Day is today and this needs to be taken into account.) Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am adjourning the meeting in five minutes, and we will continue at 10.35. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u20	Dear colleagues and fellow Members! We continue our adjourned session by addressing agenda item 11. The representative of the Government has joined us, so I give her my word for further explanation of the bill. The word is given by Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u21	Dear Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, nice greeting! The proposal of the novel eliminates the unconstitutional situation which the former government again committed in 2006 and 2008. At the time of our assumption of the mandate, we were therefore awaiting a second decision of the Constitutional Court and a six-month deadline to remedy the unconstitutional situation. At the same time, we have been reducing expenditure on public servants' salaries, negotiating with trade unions and reaching an agreement on the freezing of salaries for 156 000 civil servants in April 2009. In the same month, the Act on the Temporary Reduction of Salaries for Officials entered into force by 4%. Whom did we especially lower our wages to? Officials. Who, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, are the officials? These are representatives of the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government and representatives of other NGOs elected or appointed. Therefore, coordination with judges took place at a time when we reduced their salaries by 4%, when the number of unemployed began to increase and when the economic crisis had already hit the hole with all its power. The government's starting points in the process of coordination with judges were therefore indisputably clear: compliance with the Constitutional Court's decisions is necessary and can only be achieved in a way that does not increase the wages of judicial officials, because any increase in budgetary expenditure on salaries for the state's publicly sound position in 2009 and 2010 is unacceptable. The coordination process was therefore extremely difficult and the solution initially seemed impossible. On 16 June 2009, we signed an agreement with representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and representatives of the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Committee of Judges and the Court of Justice and found that the procedure for the coordination of judicial salaries resulting from the decisions of the Constitutional Court had been concluded by agreement and that the signatories agreed that the amendment should be submitted to the respected State Assembly for admission and that it should be definitively applied. 12. 2010 We succeeded because the Government returned the judges and assured them the position as stipulated by the Constitution and because the judges understood and respected the starting point that their salaries could not and should not be increased in 2009 and 2010. We have succeeded because we have been aware all the time of coordination that we owe our people an independent judge. We were very aware of the fact that today in the journal the journalist Rok Praprotnik wrote, quote: "Every developed country just makes sure that the court branch is respected and properly paid for. Because it stands in court and the rule of law falls. And if the rule of law falls, the modern democratic republic falls. There is no modern democratic republic that would not be an effective rule of law at the same time. Without the rule of law there is no equality, there is no freedom, there is no security, there is no possibility, there is no justice. The political subsystem of transition Slovenia has so far done everything in its power to humiliate and embarrass judges." Dear Members and Members! It's up to us to stop this practice. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has done so. I invite you to join us, accept the novel and do what is right for every democratic country. The situation is regulated as defined by the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee considered this law at its 8th meeting on 9 September 2009. The short-term procedure submitted by the Government and the College established, i.e. the decision of the College of 2. Seven. 2009 to deal with this through a reduced procedure. The members and members of the Committee had at their disposal a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Regulations, an opinion of the Council of Justice, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and a reply of the Ministry of Public Use to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 2. 9. 2009 and letter from the group of citizens of 8. 9. 2009 In the course of the course of business, amendments to the bill were tabled by coalition groups, i.e. twice, 27. 8 and 3. 9. 2009 and the SDS Group of Members of the SDS of 3. 9. 2009 and correction of the amendment of the same parliamentary group of 8. 9. 2009 The representative of the proposer, the Minister, said roughly what we had just heard, so I will not mention her explanation here again. In preparing the draft law, the Government coordinated its views with and with the representatives of the judges 16. 6. Achieved and signed an agreement. Otherwise, we can find that the Government is abolishing the fixed part, thus providing for a significantly larger fixed part of the salary and in this law eliminating certain supplements such as supplements for regular performance, increased work volume and many others, so that only the allowance for bilinguality and work in less favourable working hours, readiness and positional allowance is maintained. The legislative and legal service had quite a few comments, but it assessed that the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups were going in this direction in order to address these shortcomings, which it had also identified. We then listened to the President of the Commission of the State Council for the National Regulation of Mr Vnučec, who said that the Council of State or its competent commission supported this law or such amendments to the law. The Committee also took note of the written opinion of the Council of Justice presented by Ms Majda Irc. At the meeting of the Committee, Mr Posedi, the head of the negotiating group of the Public Sector Trade Unions, also presented his opinion on the law, which in some way protested that the government had failed to harmonise the law with them. We also listened to the opinions of the representatives of the Supreme Court, the Court of Justice, the Association of State Prosecutors and Advocates. A relatively sharp debate took place on the Committee below. The coalition MPs attached what was written in the law or supported the government's representatives. However, we felt that the opposition MPs were quite the opposite. We have estimated that there is simply no reason to increase wages in this way to judicial officials or judges, particularly during the time we witness to him. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 8, 15, 16 and 19 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. However, the Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 6, 17 and 18. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all articles together and adopted them by a coalition majority of 9 to 5. Members of the opposition voted against. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the law forming an integral part of this report has been prepared pursuant to Article 133, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Anton Kolarič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Public Sector Wages Act regulates salaries of more than 150 000 public officials, including judges, prosecutors and lawyers. In the near past, the non-systematic resolution of the situation and the awarding of judges has given rise to a situation where the profession of a judge is no longer attractive even at the price of a permanent judicial mandate. It is noted that after a final study and a legal and judicial examination, lawyers are able to obtain work that is not only better paid but, above all, more respected. In the near past, however, ignoring this group of public servants in the introduction of a single wage system in the public sector has certainly not helped. Moreover, the legal solutions adopted in the previous term are, according to the Constitutional Court's assessment, inconsistent with the Constitution and must now be harmonised. This year, the government held difficult negotiations with judges, prosecutors and defence attorneys, and agreed to the extent that today, in addition to the amendment to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, we are dealing with three other laws, which are inseparably linked and in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. The solutions proposed are also in the context of the public financial situation in the Republic of Slovenia. The new law under consideration pursues the following objectives: the Institute of Regular Labour Performance and Increased Work is being abolished; in order to harmonise with the salaries of officials of other branches of government, the starting salary classes of district, district, higher and supreme judges are being increased, while the range of possible progress made by judges is significantly reduced, and only the allowance for working hours, which other officials also have, and the supplements which are necessary in terms of the nature of the work of judicial officials, are in particular the allowance for bilinguality, for work in less favourable working hours and for preparedness and for a positional allowance. The draft law regulates the transitional regime for the elimination of wage imbalances. According to the applicant, the salaries of judicial officials will not increase in the sky, as it is clear from the available data that the number of judicial officials is decreasing, somewhat at the expense of retirement, some probably due to the lack of judicial involvement, and additional measures are being prepared, notably the reduction of the age limit for judges to terminate judicial service, so that the number is likely to decrease. In the Group of Social Democrats, the Government must lay the groundwork with positive legislation for the judiciary to become more institutionally strong, and we also agree with those who feel that they need to respect the judiciary, and here I also think not only the judiciary, but also other judicial professions, to take care of the judges themselves and other judicial officials. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the public sector wage system following the Constitutional Court's decision will be supported by the Group of Social Democrats. However, we want the situation in the field of justice to calm down and that everyone is aware of their position and that they are doing their work well, professionally, efficiently and in reasonable time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u27	Thank you very much. In the introduction, let me make it very clear that we will not absolutely support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In view of the social situation and what is happening in Slovenia, it is necessary to say that we are protesting the most against such action by the Government and the government coalition. The time I have at my disposal allows me only to give a taxive list of some things that will cause us to oppose this law. The explanation later from the bench. We have heard many times here today that the Government follows the Constitutional Court's decision. No, that's not true. The government does not follow the Constitutional Court's decision, but voluntarily raises wages for seven pay grade judges to the beginners. Because the Constitutional Court is nowhere, and never and never said that it was necessary to raise the salaries of judges for seven wage classes, I am talking about the judges of beginners. Furthermore, it must be said that in this country it has never happened to strike officials. I don't know any phrases in a country where officials would ever, ever, ever strike. The judges have been able to afford it because they want to be a little bit of an officer - where wages are concerned. And a few civil servants where there are other rights. The raise in wages for judges from the 40th to the 47th class represents a 28% increase in wages, at a time when workers of Mure, Gorenje, Steklarska novi or any other, nothing. They almost can't survive, the government raises judges to beginner's salary by 28%. This is an unreasonable and irresponsible act of the government and the government coalition. Who's actually the judge? The novice judge is a person of 30 years of age who has a law school and a state law exam and nothing else. It therefore represents the service of citizens. The judiciary is a service for citizens with special status. Judges shall have a permanent term of office. At the age of 30, they get it, and they never lose it. Of course, judges under the so - called independence hide everything else, including wages, and collect them with the help of their own people, that is, with the help of constitutional judges. Of course, it is necessary to say that the judges in Slovenia are essential too much. I once said ten times more than in Germany, given the number of inhabitants, but we have the largest judicial backlog. This suggests that we have an extremely inefficient or completely ineffective judicial system. The judges should start working first and then strike. Not to be corrected by the President of the Supreme Court, I will not claim to be ten times as many, but several times as he himself has said. The government argues that there is no need for additional funding. It's a deception to the public. Government materials clearly say: 5.8 million for one month in 2010 and then every month that much. Furthermore, it is very clear what it means to put additives in basic wages. The former government has committed enormous financial resources to provide judges with certain allowances for remedying judicial backlogs. The current government coalition is drowning this enormous amount, enrolling in the basic salaries and increasing wages for all judges or creating a non-working average grey. Who are the judges, exactly? Those who created them, I speak in sayings of course, these are university professors, professors, extraordinary professors, regular professors. The professors are classified in the 42nd Wage Class, outstanding professors in the 46th Wage Class, between the ages of 45 and beyond. So they "made" the judges, if we may say so, in connoisseurs. And their students will receive the first day of service of the 47th pay grade, that is, more than their teachers. I expect, in fact, it is almost clear that they must rise, at least as far as the professors are concerned. One way or another is for doctors of specialists who have been somehow compared all the years to date, they are now abandoned. If we move forward, of course, this means that we raise wages for all judges, and especially for the judges of the beginning. Today’s situation is similar. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That those who worked could reach even the 56th pay grade in pay, those who worked less or less 40. [[...]] They'll all be even today. More below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The position will be presented by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u29	Dear colleagues and colleagues, President, representatives of the Government with the Minister! The main reason for the proposal of the law before us is the current regulation on the regulation of salaries in the field of justice, which was found to be unconstitutional in 2008 by a decision of the Constitutional Court. The proposed amendments, in addition to the salaries of judges, also regulate the salaries of officials of the Constitutional Court, prosecutors and lawyers. However, the aim of the amendments is to align the salaries of justice officials with other branches of government in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. It should be noted that, in preparing this amendment, the Government has coordinated its views with the representatives of the judges, has put a great deal of effort into this and has finally reached agreement on the appropriateness of the novel before us. However, the public financial situation in Slovenia has also been taken into account, as the fact is that the changes will not create new financial obligations, the amount of wages will be the same as before, as negotiators have agreed that a number of wage supplements and a reduction in the number of advances of judicial officials have been eliminated. We would like to draw attention to the fact that the existing government had to eat the hot porridge cooked by the previous government, in particular by the actions of Minister Gregor Virant. This government has brought the judiciary and judges themselves, according to their assessment of the lowest position so far within the system of power after Slovenia's independence. The former government with Minister Sturm and Virant has created a white line of judges and has created the conditions for the actions that we have been briefed on recently. She has also worked hard at performing in the media all the time, with statements and claims to diminish the reputation of the judiciary among citizens. We are really familiar with the lawsuits of judicial officials in the Skuina. Restricted actions have been filed mostly since June of last year, when there was great ignorance and there was no dialogue with the judiciary. Nevertheless, at the time of the worst economic and financial crisis, it is unseemly, according to our assessment, that, according to the media or their own estimates, they wish to recover more than EUR 100 million from the country. Justice officials are at this time the only group of public officials who are so organised against the country, whose reputation, in fact, also judges should represent and defend at the highest level of integrity moral and ethical values. Of course, we do not deny legal protection to anyone, because this is one of the foundations of democracy and respect for human rights, but we ask ourselves, together with the public - what will be the message of a group of plaintiffs, prosecutors and lawyers to the public at a time when society is coping with the consequences of the financial crisis at all ends of the economy and public finances. Under such circumstances, the conduct we are witnessing by a number of judges, prosecutors and lawyers is not a good example in society and certainly gives the wrong signal. Therefore, given that the dialogue has been established, that the Constitutional Court's decision has been taken into account and that a proposal for the harmonisation of wages has been prepared, we expect their state associations to clearly define these claims and actions. Indeed, we are in the Group of Members because of the above-mentioned decision before making a difficult decision on how to take decisions on the proposed novels. Since things are being regulated, there is no valid reason for bringing court proceedings by judges, prosecutors and lawyers. In fact, at the time of the previous government, we opposed the actions of ministers Virant and Sturm, who denied the problematic disharmony that we are trying to eliminate with these laws. We had already expressed our readiness to enact those laws. This is true today. According to our assessment, the Minister of Public Administration of Krebs and Justice, Zalar, Minister of Public Administration and Minister of Justice, have adequately resolved the conflict and prepared an appropriate proposal to harmonise wages in the field of justice, which we will probably not oppose in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Anton Urh has the word on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u31	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the amendment of the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages and the rest of the novelties of the laws, namely, the Law on Judicial Service, the Law on State Defence and the Law on Public Prosecutions, which constitute a set of non-constitutional abolitions established by the Constitutional Court. We all know that the decision of the Constitutional Court is based on the equivalence of all three branches of government, which must also be expressed in regulating the pay system. That judicial salaries must be determined by law that the system of judicial salaries must be set up in such a way as to promote the quality and efficiency of the work of judges. And we respect such a decision by the Constitutional Court in our parliamentary group. Members of the DeSUS are convinced that the judges as officials are not equal to the remaining public officials, but their position is comparable to that of the legislative and executive branches. Of course, in some elements their position is approaching the position of public servants, especially in terms of progress, an unlimited mandate, but these officials, according to our assessment, are not equal only to public servants. On the basis of all these elements, the Government has drawn up an appropriate proposal, which is consistent with the representatives of the judiciary and follows the principle of greater consistency in determining their salaries. We believe that the proposed solutions take due account of the Constitutional Court's referrals, and that is why the DeSUS Members will contribute their votes to the adoption of a whole set of proposals that will also eliminate this unconstitutional and unevenness in terms of neglecting the officials of the judiciary in regulating their material situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Silven Majhenič has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u33	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister! The proposed novel is intended to harmonise the salaries of judges with officials of other branches of government on the basis of decisions of the Constitutional Court. The solutions followed by the proposer in eliminating the unconstitutionality of the legal regime in both decisions of the Constitutional Court are already discriminatory, constitutionally controversial and do not take into account the key differences between the three branches of government, according to the Slovenian National Parties. The Constitutional Court states that the constitutional equality of all three branches of government must also be reflected in the regulation of the material situation of the institutions of the individual branches of government. Therefore, if the individual branches of government are equivalent to each other in terms of the conditions for the occupation of a particular city and the duration of the mandate, they should also have an equivalent income. However, if this is not the case, the differences between the branches of government should also be taken into account when determining the level of income. This is the only just solution. A situation which is the subject of the current comparison is unacceptable when representatives of the legislative and executive authorities have to compete for their functions every four years, while judges need it only once in their lives. This clearly ignores the reliability and sustainability of the judicial profession, as if it were without any value. If so, in the Slovenian National Party Group, we call on judges to waive their permanent judicial mandate in order to achieve comparable salaries. The applicant himself states that, in addition to the positional allowance, the judicial officers also have certain other additives which do not belong to the other two branches of government and that the judges are in a privileged position compared to other officials because they have a permanent mandate. However, in order to comply with the salaries of the officials, the other two branches of the proposed amendment raise the starting salary classes of both district higher and supreme judges. From the point of view of the requirement for the independence of judges and the requirement for public confidence in the judiciary, the applicant should establish such a system for determining the salaries of judges, from which it will not be based to promote the productivity of judges in terms of the quantity of work, but to ensure the quality and efficiency of the exercise of judicial authority. According to the Slovenian National Party Group, such statements by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are totally inappropriate in view of the high number of judicial delays and in view of the judgments against Slovenia already handed down for violating the right to a trial without undue delay. If we strictly follow the principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the case of judges, we should also follow them in the case of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, whose excuses also take a tenth of their lives. Given that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is obviously very much aware of the Constitutional Court, according to the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, it should cut down on the basic decision-making instrument of the Constitutional Court - the principle of weighing several secured goods and give priority to the one that is most important in terms of public interest. This is, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group, certainly before the higher salaries of the judges, the abolition of judicial arrears. In view of this proposal for a new law on the public sector wage system, we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The word is given by Guido Kres on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that by raising wages the situation in the public sector's pay system will deteriorate and not harmonise, as is required by the constitutional provision which is the basis for the proposed law, so we cannot support the proposed changes. The abolition of part of the salary for work performance and the abolition of the mentoring allowance will, in our view, have an additional negative impact on the quality of work in public administration and increase the disproportionateity. This relationship will only deteriorate further with the fact that the Government foresees an additional reduction in other salaries in the public sector, particularly staff members who do not have the permanent mandates granted as judges. The public sector unions argue that the Government has not consulted them on the proposed solutions and therefore disagree with some. The news is that many judges have even sued the country for underpayment of salaries in the last few days. On the other hand, the Council supports the proposal for amendments, which confirms that the Government has consulted judicial officials on the dynamics of changes. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, it seems to us that everyone mentioned forgets that we are in deep crisis at this time. The economy is fighting for survival, the inflows to the budget are shrinking. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we believe that this meeting should deal with completely different laws and not with a proposal to raise the salaries of judges. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we respect the constitutional principle of the independent judiciary, so we have always listened to proposals for their more effective work, to work on the principle of "fair work - fair pay". There's no guarantee with this law. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Greetings to ministers and coworkers! The proposal for a position of the Liberal Democracy Club is clear and unequivocal. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages, which is before us this time, is a result of a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. This found that the applicable provisions of the Public Sector Wages Act were unconstitutional for judges. Once again, unconstitutional for judges. The main reason we are adopting this law today is that, unlike the previous coalition, this coalition of decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia actually takes into account and eliminates the unconstitutionality of the previous regime. The solutions brought by the amendment of the law finally include judicial officials in classes that, according to their competence and nature of work, also belong to them. And while the opposition has tried to convince us by now in this mandate that we are throwing away the side of the mountain of money, it is up to us to consider whether compliance with the decisions is something that we are deciding on on the basis of the price. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a lot more than that. That is why we want to tell you the following in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia Club. The classification of judicial officials in the higher classes is compensated and is essentially almost neutral for the budget. On the one hand, by abolishing regular work performance, on the other hand by abolishing work performance due to increased work volume and on the third, by reducing the level of positional allowances. Second, the Ministry of Justice has, at the same time, reserved 43 calls for judicial officials for the sustainability of public finances and in accordance with measures to improve the functioning of the judiciary. Because in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we believe that the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected because we believe in an effective public administration which is rational both in terms of efficiency and in terms of fiscal sustainability, we will be united in our House of Members' proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u38	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and on the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled, 21 9. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? He does. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is "Miran Potch." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Wage management is always a very difficult task. However, the administration of salaries in the judiciary further complicates certain circumstances. The most important are the following. For the first time, a small social reputation enjoyed by the public in the field of justice, especially the judiciary itself. I do not claim to be justified, but certainly also under the influence of some of the actions of this part of the Authority. It's been taking both of us a while, and it's been encouraging each other. Up to completely malicious, unilateral and insulting assessments to the judicial branch of power and judges on the one hand and on the other hand of the court itself, which is too slow to remove judicial backlogs. It is objectively not effective, but formally behaves as normal as the third branch of power, although some conduct is unacceptable to this branch. I think that the sentence that the judges have staged in recent years, and in particular the pay-off requirements for the last five years, is five years, as long as an expiry date is possible. However, this is not the only reason that makes it difficult to regulate wages. Two are the same or even more important. First time. The fact that, despite the decision of the Constitutional Court, the previous government was not prepared to negotiate with the judges to change the basic salaries of the judiciary and the revised system of wages, which only increased the conflicts of justice with society. You can't, if it's three equal branches of power, put yourself in a position where you just ignore one thing and then point your finger at it, that it's responsible for the whole situation in society. And a third. I think it is right to say that the problems have also caused substantial changes in material and social circumstances since the decision of the Constitutional Court was taken to date. These solutions are now being adopted in times of economic crisis, which requires coordinated solutions in all areas of social life and should not allow for exceptions to the resources spent in the budget. This fact is difficult and, therefore, the proposed decisions must also be adapted. During the debate on the bill, I heard many criticisms about it, mainly by the Slovenian Democratic Party, but few proposals. The proposal that is being made is contrary to the position of the judiciary, which is the third independent branch of power; in the amendment; and I cannot support it myself. In this case, it would also be good to take into account the solutions that will ensure that I say peace in the third branch of government, which are the decisions proposed by the Government and are in line with the judges and other justice workers. Therefore, I also support the proposal of the law, as the only acceptable option, as well. However, I must point out that, most seriously, I am counting on all its consumers to share, in principle, the same fate in their decisions in the budget. Above all, I expect, and I would like this not only to be understood as without judges and other officials in the judiciary seriously considering whether they are really entitled to the pay gap for the past years - and even if, in times of economic crisis, it is morally and socially acceptable for them to exercise such rights on a judicial path that raises many more questions than can be given satisfactory answers. I also expect the Minister, especially from the Minister of Justice and the Government, to find acceptable answers to this question, and more understanding from the judges, not only for themselves, for their position and for their salaries, but also for the social function they perform. Because of their position, roles and social responsibility, we can expect more understanding from them, sober judgements from some populist individuals who bring fire to the difficult situation of the third branch of power, and in fact, they are always negativating disputes between this branch of government and society as a whole. Finally, let me express my expectation that, at the demagogic statements that we have heard in part and will certainly still be today, the Government will be able to provide clear and concrete answers so that we can make decisions about this law with a more peaceful conscience before the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u41	Thank you very much. In fact, I am very pleased with some of the assessments made by the government coalition concerning the judiciary, because for the first time in this Chamber I also hear a critical word, as we have just heard it. Of course, I also hear a lot of misleading things. But we're on the amendment. The amendment we tabled clearly states - what? To pay judicial officials, that is, judges and others, raise them up, that is, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, but we do not raise them as much as the Government has imagined. At the same time, the following must be said. The charges that we are witnessing at this time cannot be attributed to Dr. Virant or Dr. Sturm. Those who actually monitor the situation need to know that the lawsuits relate to the first half of the previous decade when a decree was adopted in the National Assembly, which consequently reduced the judges’ wages. And the judges didn't remember, for fifteen years or ten years, they didn't remember being deprived. During the reign of John Janša, however, they remembered, after ten or fifteen years, that they had reportedly been deprived of something. And they're filing lawsuits today. So that's the truth. Let's go in one order. To speak of an unconstitutional situation, it does not hold, and the government does not correct the anti-constitutional situation by means of this law. In fact, the Constitutional Court, although I have great concerns that it has not been eliminated - that is, the Constitutional Court has ruled on its salaries, the salaries of its colleagues, friends, acquaintances, lawyers, judges. And in my opinion, it could have been self-critically eliminated, not done what it is. Nevertheless, the Constitutional Court did not say raise wages for seven pay grade judges to begin with. The result that you proposed to raise wages to judges for seven pay graders or 28% is also not the result of some rough negotiation. This is the result of blackmailing judges and this is the result of the government's flexibility. That's what we have to say. Next. It is unacceptable, even from the point of view of these lawsuits, which are now that judges exploit their own position and themselves are incurring some damages of 50,000, 100,000 euros in return. This is a morally depraved and subversive act. Forgive the expression. The bet, I mentioned earlier, the judges are officers. Of course, because such a situation was once fought in the past in our legal order. But this status also requires responsible behavior. I've never heard Members, Ministers, Secretary of State strike. They're judges. Today we have heard for the first time that the white sentence was correct, even though many judicial backlogs have been resolved in many district, district courts, one would say no. But the strike has been declared, and so have the striker, when no state official has ever struck since Slovenia existed. So, who's the strike? However, the bet is the most inefficient social subsystem that needs substantial changes. So this social system strikes whether or not it strikes and today, with the government's majority, it's paying for what we're talking about. The Government’s decision to raise salaries for seven wage classes to judges who are not judges is slightly less than that of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has never said that seven pay grade levels should be raised. There is no such decision and do not mislead the public. The Constitutional Court said they were not equal to the other officials. Who says seven pay grade is an equation? That's what you say in the coalition, and that's what the government says. One more thing. You know that we have been in the Slovenian Democratic Party for a long time in the position that a constitutional intervention in the judiciary is needed. It's no secret, it's what we've said publicly about how we imagine these things. The judges are therefore those who, at least 30 years of age, receive a permanent term of office and retire when they leave, 65 plus. No one can ever take that away from them, anywhere. This is a privilege that we do not have, not Members, not Ministers, nobody. We are ambassadors all these four years of testing before the people, and government officials are appointed, loved or whatever, in this hall or elsewhere. It is only the judges who are given this life, permanent or whatever you want. Nowhere, of course, and never maintains the claim that judges would be completely aligned at the lowest level with other officials. This lowest rate of judicial officials, judges and others has been compared with specialist doctors, with teachers at the university and so on, not as you suggest today that the starting judge will, of course, receive the 47th pay grade, and that he will, of course, be over his teacher, a professor at the university for 25, 30 years of working time. That's bullshit. This is an irresponsible act and also an irresponsible proposal. The Court is a de facto fact public service with a special position, as stressed by Dr Virant, and nothing else. Nothing else. It's not like they're standing up like they're standing up. Why is this system ineffective? Because it has the largest judicial backlog in Europe, only in the last four years have we been able to reduce them in many courts with many judges. And not to be critical of all judges, many of them are my personal friends and they say, you're wrong, I'm working like a black animal, but there's something else to say that not all of them, not all of them. The current system was designed this way, so it was prepared in a way that rewarded the good judges who worked in the Lukend project, who worked at home, who worked in other courts. He awarded them practically for 16 pay grade. In contrast to those who proclaimed the sentence, they worked mostly from 7 to 15 and went home. What does today's system suggest? Today's system provides for all the same salaries in the "start". What does that mean? That those who were successful at work, those who were solving things in the Lukend project, would say thank you very much, at three o'clock I'm going home, normally. But why work if there is no means to increase the amount of work? It's perfectly normal. It's a logical consequence. Major judicial backlogs and nothing else can be a logical consequence. I'm sure doctors and specialists at the university are waiting in ambush. I'm sure they're waiting, and they're right. They're right! So this equation, which we will witness after the possible adoption of today's law in the form it is, will stimulate the work, not the work, which is not right. Judges will no longer have a Master's degree allowance, they will have no Ph.D. allowances, for increased work, mentoring, Lucando, performance and so on. We take all of this away from them and give it to them on their basic salary. And that guarantees a gray average, which we will be witnessing to him to a much greater extent. I am sure that the over-average good judges are the ones who have carried out the Lukenda project to the extent that we have today, because today they will be punished from this vote. Well, the work will be punished by the coalition, but the deed will be rewarded. And that's not right. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, the time you adopted this law at the government was still a slightly different time. You accepted it in June, but you negotiated before that. Today is a different time. This is the time when you yourself predict the freezing of pensions, the restrictions on pensions, the reduction of public sector wages - this is today. Is it appropriate, then, to raise the wages of the court to such an extent? That's not right! The situation is changing from day to day, as the Prime Minister says. You'd expect to see workers in Mura who won't have a constitutional right to pay. I would say that you should see, and maybe that's what constitutional judges see, that in my local environment -- I'm talking about Glass Nova -- are people without a working age because it wasn't paid for. And they were working at a couple of thousand degrees Celsius for the furnace, and they were blowing glass. Ladies and gentlemen, do they not have constitutional rights in this country? Do the constitutional rights of workers in Gorenje? Do the Mure workers have constitutional rights? They've got them! But I don't know which court will pay them. That's not right, and that's not fair. Don't take my performance, especially the judges and the judges. Don't take it as an assault on the court. This may well be a moment of truth to bring the judiciary into the position it is in our legal order and not behave as it is. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, I call on you - this is my call to the coalition in any case - to take advantage of any procedural option or anything before the vote today and take a few days to reflect until the end of this session, and see that this is a mistake. A mistake against people who have nothing to eat. A mistake against the people who pay us and the judges. Consider shaking your hand before you press the "yes" button. This would be wise, it would be for the benefit of the whole of Slovenia and for the benefit of the judiciary. That's not right, but whatever you're doing with your head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The Minister of Public Administration spoke. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak, I absolutely agree with you. It would be unacceptable, unfair to work in Mura, to work in Gorenje if the current government raised salaries for judges in the 2009 crisis year and in the 2010 crisis year. Therefore, the proposal of the novel clearly and loudly contains two types of arrangements - transitional and final. For this reason, coordination with judges was extremely difficult because we started from the point of view of coordination that any change in the policy of the salaries of judicial officials should not even exceed the euro's wages which the judges receive for their work today. In my opening remarks, I said that this assumption, when I began negotiations, coordination - it took me a few months, seemed almost like, you know, to use the term'mission impossible' but when we opened up all the questions that define today or which, by your definition as you wrote in the law, define the position of a judge in contravention of the constitution, i.e. as a public servant, as someone who provides public service, with nine supplements, with 10 classes of advancements, we asked ourselves in the introduction to these coordinations, what defines the position of an official. And once again, before the Slovenian public, we are obliged to say and explain that the position of judges, as you said, has been chosen, but you know, before you and before us is the current Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which, as a democratic constitution, defines for 1001 reasons the position of a judge as defined in the democratic countries of which we are friends and co-operating in the European Union. Article 125 of the Constitution: Judges are independent in the exercise of judicial office - even of us in the Government, even of you in Parliament, are bound only to the Constitution and the law. Such independence must be guaranteed to them. That's what the Constitution says. Article 129 of the function of judge shall be permanent. All calls for the cancellation of a permanent function for judges as individuals are absolutely contrary to the act before us today and must be respected. Judges shall be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Justice and may be released under the conditions laid down by law and so on. Both Members and we in the Government are obliged to assure our citizens of an independent judge of any pressure, because, in a significant part, judges judge in disputes between a country and an individual, a vulnerable citizen, the state does not always make good and proper decisions. And who's going to judge? The only thing left for the citizen is an independent judge who simply cannot be distracted, and here you are with your conduct in 2006 and on twice as arrogant, because of course it sounds very good, more than grand when you told people that judges are lazy and more. Judges will never be popular in any country, a judge in criminal proceedings condemns criminals to protect other people who respect the rule of law. And that's why no one likes him. Justice always loses one side and one side is always unhappy. And against 1,000 judges it is possible to point arrows and this has worked out very well for you and we wanted this to simply stop because of the benefit of our citizens and please do not deceive, I will explain and I will try to make sure that these few months of negotiation of how this coordination operation with the Constitutional Court decision will make it financially neutral to serve you with accurate data. That the current Government, at this moment, has prepared this new Law on the Public Sector Wage System, that we need to protest against our actions, I would like to make it clear. In December 2008, the Constitutional Court decided that the position of judges was unconstitutional. The deadline for the abolition of the anti-constitutional situation was set at six months. We immediately started talking to the judges, and we are obliged to settle this situation. We were aware at the time of our term of office that we would respect all the principles of the rule of law. This arrangement, which is proposed in the novel, is clear to us that it does not follow the decision of the Constitutional Court. It is right that we know exactly what the Constitutional Court wrote down. The fundamental requirements placed before the Government, when the proposal was a constitutional solution, were as follows. In four important parts, the Constitutional Court, I would like to sum up the fact that the constitutional equivalence of all three branches of government, legislative, administrative and judicial, has also been reflected in the regulation of the material situation of the institutions of the individual branches of government, which requires a more appropriate relationship between the salaries of the judges and the salaries of the legislators and the enforcement authorities. Your amendment, which measures that we are the majority of the supplements and you increase the pay grade in this amendment by one according to the existing arrangement, means that the salaries of judicial officials at the time of the adoption of your amendment and our arrangements, where most of the supplements are overflowed, as you have rightly found, to raise pay grade, significantly reduce the basic salaries of judges. That's why he's unacceptable. Second requirement of the Constitutional Court. From the point of view of the requirement for the independence of judges and the requirement for public confidence in the judiciary, it is necessary to establish such a system for determining the salaries of judges, which will not be based on promoting the productivity of judges in terms of the quantity of work, but to ensure the quality and efficiency of the exercise of judicial authority, which requires and defines us; not only in foreign systems, but also in the definition of the salaries of judges more clearly than in force. Third time. The procedure for coordinating judicial salaries must be laid down by law in order not to result in a new substantial reduction. This provision is set out in the 2006 Constitutional Court decision. When you said earlier that the former government did not cause these current actions, which I do not intend to discuss at all, because they are not the subject of all of this, the Constitutional Court in its 2006 decision stated exactly this: the procedure for coordinating court salaries, i.e. the determination of the value of the salary class, must be laid down in law. And then, on the basis of this decision of the Constitutional Court, the judges found that their 20% reduced base in 1997 was wrongly established, that is their opinion, by decree. And that was the reason. If you had settled the position of judges properly during your government's term of office, that is, as officials, not as public servants working in the administration, they would not have challenged this in 2006 in the Constitutional Court and this decision would not have been indirectly blamed, you could have attributed the cause of these actions to the conduct of your government, there is no doubt. And we had to provide the representatives of the judiciary with the possibility of participating in the adoption of their situation, so we did not coordinate with them and we were not forced to do anything, the Constitutional Court ordered you to coordinate and define the situation in a manner that is possible to be coordinated with them. And for the first time, I will say, during this young country's lifetime, we are representatives of the Council of Justice, the judges, the Supreme Court, the strike committee and all the rest of the days sitting and defining ourselves on specific issues, not only to the height of the pay grade, but to all the circumstances that define their material position. And because of this financial impact there is no financial impact and I want to explain this further. All the calculations, I have them at my disposal, and the judges have them in front of them, and we've taken into account what happens to each individual judge today, because there were 1,000 and something that was so easy to do. And I assure the Slovenian public with full responsibility that the solution has no financial implications in 2009 and 2010. And now for the rescue. Initially, in order to define the position of judges, we dealt with the issue of additives closer to the officials as public servants. In the draft law we have drawn you the tables set out in these tables and in the 23rd section of the existing Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, it is undeniable that until this novelty the position of the judge has been defined and could also receive nine allowances as public servants, as public servants have advanced by 10 wage classes. What are we up to now? What you find out for yourself, you don't say everything. The principle of wage variability, which in the past defined the position of a judge and compared it with a public servant, has been replaced by a principle which is significantly more appropriate for an independent judge, which is the principle of the validity of the judge's salary. We have made it clear that there will be no way to determine the work performance that is maintained in a number of ways, as you know, that judges cannot make progress; they cannot be judged as successful; they can be resolved if they work poorly if they work unprofessionally. But the speed of the judge's work is not in favor of the man he judges. We want to achieve quality and not quantity. And that's a basic requirement. So when we have replaced variability with stability, we have resolved, I mean, the determination of the standard that has so far been established in the individual judge has not led to a faster resolution of matters, because the judge is simply judging on behalf of the people and wants to judge, even if he does not make the standard, he has to process cartels and protect the human rights he has before him and in which, of course, he judges difficult things on behalf of the State. So that the norm has not increased the better protection of our citizens, perhaps even 2% of the work performance has never been the standard for the good work of the judge. If this were the case, in the past, 18 years would be possible to pay work performance all the time, say regular performance and increased workload, then there would be no backlogs today. These two institutes have never solved this issue. I say that legislation, which we must make very serious, procedural and substantive, will be able to define the more efficient work of the judges, and they themselves will not have an impact on this in some respects, by better organisation of the work of the courts as a whole and by monitoring the effects of the work of the courts, which, of course, will bring about further reform of the judiciary. So the proposal, because of the principle of greater fixability, followed the solution and arranged the following. The institute of regular work performance and increased work volume should therefore be removed. At the annual level of €58.8 million for all judicial officials, this section represents 4.8%. These two institutes stop paying off at 1. Seven. 2009 In this part, we have poured this institute into an increase in wage classes only in part 4%. I'll tell you exactly what happens to 1. 7. occurs with an individual category of judges. What we have done hereafter, regarding the overall arrangement, I am telling you, when we have increased the starting classes of the district, as you say, by 7 district fewer, even smaller, supreme for less, we have substantially reduced the range of possible advances of the judges. If the county was able to advance from 50 to 49, now it starts at 47 and ends at 51. And since the majority who work there today are already listed above, there is no increase in wages. The county will be able to advance for only 4 pay grade, earlier for 9, district judges for 3 pay grade, higher for 2 pay grade, and for top promotions will no longer be. So here we have this scale that used to be like with the employees -- very broad, you've seen this because we've drawn you all very nicely, it's going to be very narrow now. Only start will be higher, because entry into the judicial function, even if the judge is a novice, is required to judge in the exact same quality after 30 years as the judge who has a longer internship, but these judges then advance on other scales: from district to county, from district to higher, from higher to supreme, and ambition to be a good judge means to move on this scale, not within the same pay grade. Supplements, as you yourself have explained. We wanted the judges' add-ons to get as close as possible to the officers. And that was a condition. It is not possible to maintain the allowances in the same way as public servants, increase the starting classes and further say that this position is the same as that of the official. No, because you and we in the legislative, executive branch of government are right to say, we have a fixed salary class, just an allowance for working time and the end, even if we are working overtime and so on. All the facts were brought to the attention of the judges and they had to be identified on these issues. Therefore, in the end, we deleted all the supplements, and only three were preserved, those who, according to the assessment of judges and judicial officials, were necessary and inherent in the specificities of judicial work. The bilingual allowance must be in areas where the judge must be able to write a judgment in two languages; this is not much. Then there is the allowance for work in less favourable working hours, where it is only for on-call investigative judges who must be at the site of the accident, not for others. And a positional allowance, which we reduce because of better organisation in height, but we also define as an addition, not only for the number of judges when the judge leads a team of judges, but also with administrative colleagues, which we think will help us to work more in a coordinated manner. So when we did all this, the next question was how to make sure that there were no financial consequences. And with date one. Seven. 2009, for only six months we have had time to remedy the unconstitutional situation, for the second time, you know how it is, when the Constitutional Court decides on the same situation for the second time; the third time we get, as in the case of the deleted, almost a decision of the Constitutional Court, because it only has to solve matters instead of the legislator who is the only one called to settle matters properly. In the transitional regime, we did just that because we knew that we needed to provide the necessary social assistance in the 2009 budget, to increase funds for active employment policy and to help the economy in these crisis situations. That's why in 2009, we couldn't raise the salaries of the District Courts by 27%, we didn't raise them anything, and I'm going to prove it to you now. In the transitional regime, 4% of the resources for regular work performance and the increased volume of work have only been converted to higher pay grade to this extent. And what happened? You have an exact article where there is a transitional arrangement. 1. Seven. 2009 happens - what? 148 judicial officials are not subject to any change in their current classification. This is the case with the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Courts and other management positions of the judicial officers. These 148 judges will be reduced in 2009 and 2010 by 4%. 880 judicial officials are increased by one salary grade according to current classification. Yeah, you'll say that means 4% of their pay raises. No, no, no. This classification assumes validity, and this is recorded in the transitional provisions, the Act on the Temporary Reduction of Employees' Salaries by 4%. That means nothing. 217 judicial officials shall be classified for two pay grade higher. Here the district judges are the lowest today, 135 being classified in the 41st wage class. And for these judges, in narrations, 148 judicial officials, who are the presidents and vice-presidents of the courts, will be sacrificed. And that's why since 1. Seven. By the end of 2010, the volume of salaries for judicial officials will not be increased by the euro. What's going to happen to 1. 12. 2010 where, in agreement with the judges, we have postponed the final alignment of their material situation with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. So one and a half years from now, 1. 12. At that time, we would need EUR 5.8 million, not at the monthly level, at the annual level, and this means a 9% increase in wages for all judicial officials. The government demanded that there be no financial consequences at the time. For this reason, the Minister of Justice has also taken into account international research and what you have said today that the number of judges is too great, we have made a dynamic, and in this period the number of judges will be reduced by 116 without difficulty, including by soft variations of retirement and non-replacement. And 116 judges are equal to EUR 5.8 million of salary at the annual level. So it's also 1. 12. This is the end of, hopefully, crisis situations, in fact, the judges will settle their position completely wage neutrally. And one more thing. 12. 2010 all remaining allowances, i.e. mentoring, specialisation, less favourable working conditions, will then be abolished as vice-presidents of all district courts, which means significant savings. The reorganisation of the courts will also bring about other changes by the end of 2010. With full responsibility and not by deceiving that this arrangement is financially neutral in the financial years 2009 and 2010; otherwise, the Government would not have confirmed it and would not have come to Parliament with this proposal for a law. Otherwise, I personally would not have any moral integrity, to speak again with the public sector unions about wage policy in 2010. Even in 2009, these negotiations took place in parallel and the unions were informed of this proposal. Any increase in the salaries of judges and at the same time the freezing of wages or the non-compliance with existing regulations and the collective agreement for the public sector would be a complete failure. In agreement, you know that we have reached an agreement in 2009, and we are now talking about 2010. So that the proposal has been recalculated in length and time, the judges themselves are in fact, in the end I thanked them for their correctness, because it was not easy to tell their colleagues that the anti-constitutional situation of 2006, 2007, 2008 and regulation since 2009 did not mean the abolition of the anti-constitution, at the formal level already, but in the pocket not in 2009, and not in 2010. This communication was also very clear to them from the first day of coordination. And once again, please, let's not do this, even though the crisis may be an exceptional opportunity to exploit the plight of individual groups of people against other groups of people. This policy, in my opinion, even if we are in opposition or running the country, we must never do so, because our word, by definition of our position, counts more and directs people in one way or another. Mure's employee, with the information that the judges' salaries will increase during the crisis years, must really shed a particular kind of anger at the current power that would dare to do so. And you're telling me that's what we're doing. All I can do is say that it's because of her that we don't do this and she's confused, and she doesn't know who to believe and she doesn't know whether she hates the judge tomorrow, whether she's actually happy that he's reasonable and that despite being persecuted at the time of the crisis in the country, he understands that it's necessary to help her first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Look, just a few things I'll be able to answer, probably. In no way do I agree with what you're saying is that there are no financial consequences. Why? Is It Because It Is Written in Your Paper, 1 / 1 Ten. 2010 €5.8 million to go. Whether you reduce the number of judges is possible or not, if not reduced, these financial consequences are. Next. You're seriously interfering with what's true about 2007 and the current lawsuits of the judges. Why? Judges according to my information, but I know that yours can be even better, the difference between back and back, 1997 minus. During the period when this Parliament adopted a sub-legislative act reducing its salaries, the result was a reduction in the salaries of the courts. And the judges did not come forward until 2007, when they suddenly realized that they could get 50 or 100,000 euros in personal lawsuits. This has nothing to do with the previous government, nothing to do with Dr. Sturm and nothing to do with Dr. Virant. You said a lot about numbers. Let me just mention one more. See how you manipulate the material says: "International comparison of MPs and supreme judge. You cite the example that ministers in Slovenia reportedly have €5,200, Members of the EUR 5,000, and Supreme Judges say €3,680. Where did you see that? Show me a fellow with 5,000 euros of gross wages. In this Chamber I see only one, that is Mr Potrč, who is the Vice-President, or else he would not have seen it either. You cannot compare a Member with a Vice-President and a Chief Justice and take a Deputy President of the National Assembly and, as they say, a novice or what this number is. This is unrealistic and not misleading. That's not true. Take Mr Pukšič's salary and compare it with the Chief Justice. This is a comparison of the Member - the Supreme Judge and you will see that the relationship is different, not in favour of the Member, and that is not true. It really bothers me that this is how you deceive. Of course, the situation is relatively clear. Look, 47, 51st grade district judge, of course you're right. The consequences, however, are that this circuit judge will be raised so high at the start as the first day of service that he will never be motivated to do anything until his retirement, for he knows little. Those two, the three pay grade. But we know what kind of pay grade other employees have. The introduction of additives into the base is therefore a disaster. And I wonder if you've compared the judges with the other officers, compare with me or with you. Okay. Why did you make them? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u46	Mr Gorenak, you will only have a chance, I am just warning you - the replica has been announced and is limited in time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u47	Oh, thank you. I'll be right with you. Thanks for the heads-up. Then we should also compare night work. Members of Parliament work at night, and so do you. Because you take it all away from them. That's not consistent. Thanks for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I'm opening the debate. Please sign up for the debate. The first word is Mr Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u49	Thank you for your word and for everyone's nice greeting. I must say that today's debate, in particular in this amendment, is of crucial importance in terms of understanding this law and the policy it represents, that it is also scientifically extremely interesting. In fact, it is interesting for a political scientist to see what this is really about right now. And if we think of big words, it is very interesting what can be eluded as the essence of the policy which is represented in the current law by the text on the government proposal, and which is trying to soften our amendment, which, of course, should it be adopted, and I hope that it will open up the possibility that it will be possible, either with the harmonisation amendment or later, to preserve itself as a quality, also the possibility of awarding after the action, after the work done, and thereby promote the resolution of judicial backlogs in the judiciary. Because this part now you're practically shutting it down. What, then, does the political story recorded in your marriage mean if we reflect on the big words? In fact, in Slovenia, this moment, under the control of this coalition, we can observe the restoration of socialism, irrespective of the stated objectives, regardless of the concepts used, but with regard to certain methods and means used. In this case, it's a balance sheet. You know, equality on Sunday. One of the fundamental features of the system, which therefore ended in poverty, inefficiency and went to the dump site of history. Some of the nostalgia or laziness or god of knowledge for what reasons, but certainly the coalition of the desire to reward a layer on which it relies, is now applying a decision of the Constitutional Court, which can in itself be problematic, but this is irrelevant, because the Constitutional Court has not decided what you wrote in the law, but it is a sovereign decision of this coalition, which now rules Slovenia, and at this point you are enforcing the collapse of the Slovenian economy. It may seem to someone that this claim is exaggerated, but, you know, every act of justice also has material consequences. I'll be specific. What it means in practice is that all that enormous amount of money that has been intended to eliminate judicial backlogs - these mean double costs for citizens: for the first time, less rights in court, harder exercise of the right of trial within a reasonable period of time, which is a constitutional category, and of course the burden of the same citizen as the taxpayer, because he pays the judicial backlogs, and also because Europe punishes us almost every week for some judicial backlog, which we are paying the taxpayers again. What does that mean for the economy? This simply means less legal order. If the judge is no longer rewarded for eliminating backlogs, this means more financial discipline, more problems for ordinary, small, medium-sized enterprises with no other leverage than, say, trading monopolies, to blackmail partners. Those in need of judicial protection will find this even more difficult in the economy than it has been before. Let us not forget that you intend to burden the courts with additional tasks, such as deleted ones; but you will come here with your law in a little while, and we will say more about this. This, of course, means further deterioration of the most vital part of the Slovenian economy, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. This means, in practice, because well-functioning legal order and legal protection are essential conditions for a functioning economic system in modern regulation. Without this, the modern economy cannot function. In Slovenia, this works poorly. Some improvements have been made in the last mandate by removing the judicial backlogs, which were earmarked for massive money, millions, tens of millions of euros. And all of this today, with a false excuse, how you don't increase the mass for the judges' wages, you give to everyone, no matter how much and what someone really does and knows. That's what you're really doing! And you deceive the public that this does not mean a material change. What a change! Now share nicely with everyone the pay line, the pay line, in the balance room. Which means less legal protection, less effective legal protection for the economy, more costs for the taxpayer. And you claim that there are no material consequences. There is certainly something else to be clarified here - what is the independence of the judiciary? I myself had the opportunity - in this work, believe me, I only listened because this was done by the best experts that this country still has - to be among when writing a draft Slovenian constitution in a wider group. And there all the debates went solely towards ensuring that judicial protection and independence of the judiciary as a fundamental condition are guaranteed by two institutions: this is a permanent mandate and the full immunity of the judge. Members do not have complete immunity. We have one crazy immunity that I personally proposed to get rid of: you can have immunity for ordinary crime, but you have no protection for the spoken word behind the microphone in this room, which is a paradox that Europe does not know. But the judge has complete immunity! For each action, for each decision, every written or spoken word in respect of matters managed shall enjoy full immunity. This is a guarantee of the independence of the judiciary. A permanent term. Some countries don't know him, some arrangements, say, the United States. I have to say personally, I am much more fond of her because of the strangeness I have witnessed in Slovenia, although I know that the ages of the Slovenian judiciary and Slovenian constitutional fathers would disagree with me. But there are judges there every few years, and they're over-exercising what they're re-electing. They have to stand before people, and therefore, with such sentences for higher salaries in the judiciary, they certainly don't work there. Where else did you see the officers strike, except for us! In Slovenia it is now interpreted as being the highest possible salary, without any remuneration for the work done, guarantee the independence of the judiciary. It is certainly a guarantee of the inefficiency of the judiciary. I would very much agree with you. But the independence of the judiciary is not because it is given by purely other institutions, such as those you are now offering here. Then how is this in practice? Just one case. The lady who advocated higher court salaries on television asked the journalist how much she actually had to pay, how much she had to pay last month, then said in her throat, which was more than obvious: "Yes, one good 7,000 euros." Hello! As far as I am aware, the President of the National Assembly has a thousand euros lower salary than the number announced by the lady is not the President of the Supreme Court or the President of the Constitutional Court! From which we could easily draw a very simple conclusion: it is necessary for everyone to lower their salaries, and they will be approximately comparable to the Member States - if things are as simple as the government is doing. In fact, there is something completely different here. In fact, behind the solutions you offer, he hides the reward of a certain part of the people he has privileged. Compared to all others - and personally to the companies mentioned earlier by colleague Gorenak, Gorenak added several other companies, where people are in terrible trouble, personal problems, and those people, who will not end up because of your incapacity at the employment institution, will pay: they will pay three times and have the right to know. For the first time, they will pay because all the money that has been intended to eliminate judicial backlogs is now being taken directly for all judges, regardless of how good it is, and how much knowledge it is working, because it is unfair and is also inconsistent with all the doctrines that modern Europe knows. Second, they will be paid because, either alone as some future entrepreneurs or as purely private individuals, private individuals will not receive that level of judicial protection, the right to a trial within a reasonable period of time that they should have after the constitution, because this intervention of yours is directly destroying it. From this point of view, I submit, it is also contrary to the purpose of the Slovenian Constitution's fathers. And the third time they're going to pay for your purchase of certain layers - because it's really about putting someone as an avant-garde and everyone else as a payer, which is also consistent with the thesis on the restoration of socialism that I developed at the beginning, when Europe finds that because of the further judicial backlogs that will now accumulate, I'm sure they won't shrink, and once Europe gives us the penalty - who will pay it? Slovenian economy and Slovenian taxpayers! And do not make excuses to the Constitutional Court, for this is a great error. The Constitutional Court did not really order what you wrote in the law. This is your sovereign decision and your responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u50	Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u51	Thank you very much. No special courage is needed to criticize the judiciary. This isn't much of a crust. However, it is a question of how these criticisms of the judiciary are handled: whether it is to contribute to solving the problems that are taking place in this area, or whether the criticism is intended only to reduce the reputation of this branch of authority or perhaps to caricise a little, even subjugating this branch of power. The fact is that in the four years of Janša's government, the judicial branch of power has not been given any constructive criticism. Last but not least, the lawsuits that we have witnessed in the last days or that we have been familiar with in the last days stem exactly from this humiliating attitude toward the judiciary; that is what they have made clear and loudly. In short, the criticism that Janša’s government carried out in four years to the courts was not constructive. It was not intended to solve the problem, but only to exacerbate it. And the responsibility of this government in one of the many more stories to find itself in a highly insurmountable situation, unfortunately flies to those who today strongly oppose the fact that this government has managed to reach an agreement with the judges, to conclude an agreement, to sign an agreement and not least to implement the Constitutional Court's decision. For the critics we hear have many responses in real events. Last but not least, the representatives of SDS are those who most often also dispute respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the conduct of the Constitutional Court and so on. Thus, in fact, this criticalness to the judicial branch of power is already very limited to the fact that we may also be able to talk about the desire to subdue the judiciary. I must say that it is clear and clear that the matter which we are dealing with today by amending the law on the regulation of salaries in determining other, different wage classes and which is primarily related to the decision of the Constitutional Court which imposed this on the executive and legislative branches of government has no direct connection with the actions. These actions are pending and are linked to a completely different course of action, and we are very critical of these actions. Although we understand in some way that they are produced out of indignation on the part of judges, prosecutors and lawyers, according to some practices in the past, we do, and therefore we have also made a request in the past week both to the judiciary and to other state associations that, irrespective of the fact that these individual actions, as a housing organisation, must be defined as such behaviours. At the moment when an agreement has been reached with the Government, at the moment when the agreement is signed, at the time when we have a proposal at the National Assembly on the tables, supported by coalition parties, and especially at the moment at which society is at this moment, at the time of this extremely difficult economic and financial crisis, this is, according to our assessment, a simple matter that judges must take seriously from a moral and ethical point of view and consider what message they give with these actions or with reactions that cause both us, in politics and in the public. Today we have received a response from the Slovenian Judicial Society to our call to identify the many actions brought by the officials of the judiciary. I said earlier in the address that our parliamentary groups are likely to support; only "probably" supported these changes, because today we will examine this, this response that we received just before the beginning of this consideration of this point. We will see what this answer means and, above all, we will not be at any point, I will say, change my opinion on these actions. We still believe that from our point of view, moral and ethically inappropriate, controversial, and at this moment extremely poor travel for this same law, which is likely to receive support this evening. Well, in this answer that we have received, clearly, I would like to highlight in particular what I have said before-- where is the blame for this matter? They say, I quote: "The subject of lawsuits by judges are differences for unlawfully underpaid salaries in the past, before pay reform. The demands of judges for the abolition of this illegality date back to 2002, when we found that salaries were being paid unlawfully. This is what we have warned the country, demanded the abolition of illegality, which was then concluded in 2004, to avoid lawsuits and not far from the sentence of court, a gentleman's agreement which was not later implemented. In short, after 2004, such an agreement would prevent this situation, this Damocle sword, which now hangs over the country of almost 100 million euros, could also be prevented. We therefore rightly expected that this issue to be resolved at that time, but the other branches of government did not have a hearing on this issue. Moreover, with an inappropriate attitude towards the judicial branch of power, judges were literally encouraged to sue in June last year. Judges understand the situation in which the country is in the wake of the global financial crisis. In view of this, there is a real possibility of reaching a settlement of claims. However, it is a completely individual request from each individual judge who will decide on the conclusion and extent of the settlement himself. Despite individual actions by the judges, the Slovenian Judicial Society will support efforts to find a solution that will satisfy both sides in the dispute. This is the answer that we received just before the point was considered by the judiciary, which we want to examine in our parliamentary group today before the decision is taken. So much for the explanation, I will say, my announcement of the vote, which was put out in the sense that we will probably support it. Once again, we believe that the decision that we have before us is a good one, that this is not the result of some blackmails and omissions by the Government, because we still believe that the essential message you want to deny with different words is that the financial operation is neutral, that things are regulated within the same financial scope and that this is probably the most difficult thing to achieve in the negotiations. But the system is a little different. I must say that I would not say so on average that the system of progress needs to be maintained, because these advances are, unfortunately, not exclusively related to the quality of the work, but also to the easy-to-sustained thing over the years. In my opinion, the young judge must, as well as the quality at the beginning of his term of office, perform his work in the judicial capacity of the slightly older one. Personally, even this seems a better solution to me, because I do not expect to come before a young judge in the quality of work, this quality will be lower than that of a more experienced elder. This was probably also in some way an argument that the negotiations were leading towards a smaller number of advances within and an increase in the starting wage classes. In this regard, we do not have any doubts and support solutions in this matter in our parliamentary group, but in particular we would like to express our great appreciation to Minister Krebs for, in our opinion, the work that Minister Virant and not Minister Sturm have failed to do in the last four years, but they have only been pouring in, I will say, gasoline at the fire of this judicial dissatisfaction. Of course, it can be funny, but it's very sad not. Conflicts are resolved and not dispersed. That is why I think that this path taken by Minister Krebs is correct, but of course I will have to make great efforts to do so, and we expect the creative participation of the Slovenian Judicial Society as the most active one, including in this other issue, which can cast a very large shadow on the judiciary or on the judicial officials as a whole, if these actions are indeed in such amounts and quantities as we have seen in the information of the last days, will take place in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On behalf of the SDS Group, I propose that we receive this letter from a judicial society which only one has received. We don't know what it says. We can say a lot of things, but we don't know what's written there. I therefore propose that you organise the matter so that we too can get this letter so that we can all get to know it and know what we are going to discuss. We are discussing this matter, and it would be wise for others to see if some are already greatly boasting that they have received a letter. This letter is not a letter of any kind, but it is a letter from a housing organization that speaks about this very subject that we are discussing. Please, if you can arrange this. I don't know, because of us, we don't even have to stop the session just to get in due time, but not after this meeting to get, I don't know, in half an hour or in ten minutes, but we can stop the meeting in half an hour to get to know this letter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Petan, I understand your proposal, I accept it, I think it is useful, but I must say that the letter and correspondence of a parliamentary group with a judicial society. I appeal to the Really Group of Members to decide and give this letter as an opportunity to introduce ourselves to the others. However, I cannot impose this on them, nor can I give them a decision, because this is correspondence between one parliamentary group and a judicial society. I propose that Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazam inform us as soon as possible how the Group of Members will act and that we may return to this issue later, Mr Petan, so that we do not complicate it further. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for understanding that you gave me your word. In fact, if the judiciary only communicates with one political party, we can think of a lot. It's not your fault, Mr. Chairman. I'll take that into account. However, this seems to me to be the same as if the Ombudsman were to hold a press conference with the same parliamentary group. I don't think that's right either. Or, if I'm thinking like that, you can hint.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u56	Mr. Petan, please, I think I've been very correct. Don't judge things. It is a letter sent and an answer sent. Surely, at some point, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has written and received an answer. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem asked if I could give her my word. We would not judge whether someone was right or wrong. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u57	I just want to finish, Mr. Chairman, if I may. I want to finish. As I said, we can have different insinuations, why exactly with one political group. That's why I said I'd remove your doubts. It's just that, that's all. But you can share the word with anyone you want. I can't make that decision and thank you so much for saying it, but what I've said still remains a bitter taste.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I have to share what I want, but in accordance with the rules of procedure. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem asked.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I have to say that always - representatives of the SDS can really knit things up if you can. But quite correctly, this was the correspondence between us and the Slovenian Judicial Society. We sent them a letter Friday asking them to give us a position on the conduct of judges, prosecutors and defence attorneys in bringing cases before this point. So, this is the correspondence that's been going on between us. The letter is addressed to the Really Group, but I don't think there's any special "fam," so you won't make big stories out of it. We will ask the Slovenian Judicial Society if they agree to give you this letter and give it to you as soon as possible if they agree to do so, we will also refer it to the professional services and other Members. But I have to say that I'm really protesting against the way, against some, I'm going to advertise, I'm losing my mind literally, what are the reasons for, I don't know, doing it. Yes, ours, in fact, our public question. If it were up to you, it would probably be between your parliamentary group and the judiciary. We have done this and the matter also bears the title Reply to an open letter from the Zares Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u60	The flower of Zalokar Orazem, I also ask you to stop. I take it that you will inform the National Assembly as soon as possible whether you will give us a letter. I am asking you to allow this to happen, because the basic reason that we started to discuss this is your reference to the mail that was sent to you. Mr. Petan, is it urgent? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So now I am even more convinced that our request is justified. Of course, at the final stage, we are not disturbed by the fact that a group of Members communicates with the judiciary. Secondly, if, in plenary session, the whole of Slovenia announces to the public how the judiciary has given a letter, as if they are the only ones who are credible, that they can discuss it, and only they can get a letter. That's the problem. If I had, I don't know if I would have responded to the leaders of the parliamentary group or [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u62	Mr. Petan, will you make a procedural proposal? These are comments so far. Come on, please, because everything you're saying right now has already been said.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u63	Look, I'd be done by now if I hadn't been interrupted. Given that the leader of the Zares Group is protesting, if we are now talking about what they have started, what you have found correctly, then I also have the right to protest and once again suggest to you that if it is in your power - I hope you understand correctly - you influence, if you can, as much as you can, that we get this letter anyway. Because the fact that it keeps repeating itself, "we got this letter" [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u64	Mr. Petan, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u65	"and this letter is for..." and we can do whatever we want. This is unacceptable in this House. If this is a matter of the Judicial Society, then we have every right to know what it says and what it says if someone here excuses himself for having received a letter. Thank you very much. And thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u66	Mr. Petan, there was no proposal. But what is in my power, I have done and I have understood that the Group of Ambassadors will give us their opinion as soon as possible. Is it necessary to talk about this subject, Mr. Saiovic, because you will only complicate it further? Mr. Saiovic, what do you want? To submit a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u67	I have a procedural proposal because one of the eminent members of the SDS party generalised that Slovenian judges have around 7,000 euros in salaries. I'm sure that's not the case, so I'm asking you to provide us with any such payment sheets or documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u68	Thank you very much. We are going back to the debate, which, whatever it may be, will probably benefit more from what we have been doing so far. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The media reported that this is a budgetary disaster and a unique case in Europe when judges sue the country. Complaints that exceed €39 000 pay gap are just proof that they go to those who have power, only for money, and forget about the work with which they are literally smothered, which is to be understood, because they only deal with the strike, the pay grade and the money they will be awarded by colleagues who are also suing the country. In short, this is the wrong world. The state is being sued by prosecutors, judges, lawyers who, if we look at payment classes at least those with an omen, a "leader" or something similar, are comparable to the Members whom they like to compare with. Judges have a permanent term of office, they are not responsible for their actions and bad judgments, which are large, and the state is paying large sums of money, for which these gentlemen are largely not responsible and their heads are not sore. At the same time, the government announces a reduction in salaries for public officials, while also legitimizing the increase in salaries for judges, prosecutors and lawyers. The Constitutional Court finds that the law is unconstitutional, of course not only in this case. Judges who so beat each other's chests and like to point out that the third branch of power did not solve a single case of economic crime, which is frightening. And I have a feeling that this branch has broken very badly, broken down and separated from the tree, which is very dangerous for the rule of law. I don't know who's right. It is obvious that something will have to be changed: either to adapt laws to a halt or to a constitution to laws, for the system, as it is today, is not united in most cases and is going in the wrong direction. The Constitution is a law to be respected, but it seems to be unclear, for lawyers who write laws interpret it in their own way. We have the most judicial backlogs in Europe and the highest number of judges in Europe. I agree with the judges that wages will rise, but only when we are comparable to the European standards of employed judges per capita. I don't know how it's possible that in a very short period of time the judges have resolved bankruptcy judgments for the benefit of bankruptcy managers, thereby damaging the state for a large sum of money, but they haven't even thought about workers, which proves that they have the advantage of being rich and privileged. What's gonna happen? It will happen that the entire justice system will be infected and an impartial trial will no longer be possible. The plaza of lawsuits, mostly by the judges, has been brought, as the officer wrote down, with legal powers, which encourages those who have waited until the first legal decision is made. The whole problem stems from 1993 when the parliamentary commission for elections, appointments and administrative matters adopted a decision to reduce the basics for the calculation of parliamentary salaries. This was also the reason for the reduction of salaries for judges, which is still comparable to the salaries of Members today, so I do not understand why we should not share bad things with Members when they strike the pocket by law. Things are set up very unilaterally and selfishly. On the one hand, we have a country that fights for financial sustainability, on the other hand, workers who strike because they do not receive wages or are very low, and on the third hand, a third branch of government that does not give in and wants high wages and other benefits and is also set over the country, even though it beats the bell for the survival of all citizens. That's incorrect, unreasonable for the time we're going through. Thus, it is high time for the number of judges to be limited to a reasonable number and to be deprived of a permanent mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u70	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, she asks Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Since the untruth, if not denied, becomes too often the truth in our country, I would like to stress and ask you to at least listen to me. And if you don't believe that you come to me to give you a lot of calculations and materials that clearly indicate that in 2009 and 2010 we will not raise wages for judges in Slovenia. And at the same time, we do not lower wages for public servants! You are aware that a collective contract for the public sector has been concluded between the former government and public servants in 2008, under completely different macroeconomic conditions. The wage imbalances should be addressed according to certain dynamics, and in this contract between the employer and the employees, I am talking about 165 thousand years old, the dynamics were determined in some part depending on the macroeconomic situation, and in the collective agreement also undisputedly written a sentence saying that "the wage imbalances are finally eliminated to the public servants in 2010." This means that the public treasury, i.e. the state budget, would have to provide for public servants' salaries from 2008 to 2010 EUR 500 million. At the time of the deficit we are recording today, this agreement is unsustainable in the wake of an incursion of economic growth. And what we are saying, Mr Majhenič, is that employees are to take account of the economic situation and that wage reform is not implemented in 2010 in 2009/2010. If we do everything the former government has agreed with the unions, we need an additional EUR 380 million gross to increase the salaries of public officials. And so we don't lower their salaries because we have a very complicated situation, we stop wages at the scale of the 2009 salary. So this is an address to the unions a month ago, which we addressed as an employer or government. In view of the changed circumstances, we would like to agree with the unions on an annex which will take these changed circumstances into account and the salary reform will not end in 2010. The former government is without any reflection, and I estimate, without responsibility - every government must be aware that the situation as it was can also arise, even though they say it was not known at the time, but without any reservation we should complete the treaty in 2010. So this is an excuse for public servants. And for this reason, judges in 2010 do not gain anything. We're talking about 2011. And, please, we don't raise the salaries of judges, and we don't lower the wages of public servants, because it just doesn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u73	Nice greetings, Madam Secretary, Vice President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues. With regard to the Public Sector Wages Act, which we are doing today, a number of very strong words have fallen down today, and I think it would be right for us, in such a sensitive subject as this, to really devote ourselves to this matter, not to uttering such a word, even as the Minister has said, that the transition in Slovenia has humiliated the Slovenian judicial system that judges will never be popular because they condemn criminals. I myself estimate that today there would be significantly less words around this law and about the situation of pay systems for judges, if in fact this third branch of government in Slovenia would also guarantee the right to a judgment within a reasonable time - if it were a condition for you to go into court, without having enough money, because otherwise a stronger victory is taking place because this process is going on as long as you are running out of money - and that this branch of authority would be more respected. There are many companies facing serious problems because this branch of government does not work fast enough because, in the middle of the financial relationship and also in the international public, we are known that the justice system does not work best for us. Nevertheless, I think that in the context of the pay reform, not now should we talk about how the previous government has done everything wrong again and how it is now fortunate that this government is going to solve everything in its power, but perhaps this view should, in my opinion, be made in such a way that it really approaches to see whether this country is really able to implement that pay reform that was adopted last year, to make any corrections in that part, to reach this agreement and then to put it into that system, and then the judiciary can also put it into place. I am afraid that, as already in the record of the committee that discussed this, those who negotiate for public sector wages are also dissatisfied with this alignment, and I fear that there will be another story from the past, where we - doctors, when all comparisons have been made with everyone else, have aligned their work, then someone else makes this alignment, and then again this bidding in the public sector is happening, and at the end of the day, even when it is seen how the pay system works in health, where it is evident that some wages are certainly too high, and there is no change for another year. So I think we are too quick in this work to conclude, in my opinion, that we do not have EUR 30,000 of gross social income in Slovenia and that, at the rate of such income we have today, we are already approaching 50% of GDP in public consumption and that this is leading the country to collapse. It does not lead to the collapse of some things that are well organised and with various methods, such as the sentences of judges and others, which force society. In the end, we'll all pay this tax together. That is why I do not think that we are doing this at the right time and that the state's public financial position today is not such that we could promise 10% of the raise next year, but we should settle down first. And if the rest of the public sector were to align with today's state of affairs, which we are publicly able to do, I think that we would no longer be judges in a deprived position, as far as wages are concerned, and then we could find out where we are in the middle of the next year peacefully and reconcile this matter. I'm afraid, as I said before, this bidding will begin again. What happened to us in the past shows some deviations in this society. Doctors have dragged the parallels with private doctors, I feel that judges with very successful law firms who win them over in every process they face, and here there are serious problems. Another serious problem that we want or do not want to admit in this assembly is that last year, when we all had the feeling that we could also, I don't know, in that political atmosphere hot, like we were supporting one union, another union, we even support the sentence of the judicial branch, whether you were in the judicial branch at the time, or whether you were a politician. A number of other trade unions, which also negotiated in the public sector, also received support. This year, however, the situation is turning very dangerously. I think this is a school for everyone, no matter where anyone comes from. This year, I regret to say this matter, you have a very difficult situation in the government, because also with those that you may have said a phrase together last year, you must somehow reach an agreement. And maybe there's even an adjustment to the deal in this part. However, last year, as I said, many people had support, including policies, in trade unions. If we look at the reports of the last days, the unionists are either in companies or the state has already called for people to resign today. This path and this lesson from this story I think should be very recognized for us and too much to play with people's emotions is very dangerous. And if we've had the opportunity to play with these emotions in the past years, when we say banally, you've been dipping honey and milk, we see how much trouble we all get together when things change in society. That's why I think it's right for us to learn something from this. I don't think it's a good time, but it's not appropriate at this point in the public sector to bear the increase in wages, but we should have a very clear discussion and start by reducing or temporarily tightening the belt, which would also address these imbalances. However, I fear very much, Madam Minister, when you meet with the other representatives of the unions, what negotiating power will you have after the adoption of this law, which will raise the rights of one piece of public sector.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u74	Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Bogovic, there is nothing to add to your debate and is entirely in place. For this reason, before this regulation was adopted in the Government, I have fully informed the public sector trade unions in a full-time presentation of all points. I explained to them that in 2009 and 2010, even though we are eliminating their anti-constitutional situation, we are not eliminating them in the financial sense of their salaries. That someone, some individual, may have abused it in some way, even though they said they did not. But it cannot be true to upset them and negotiate with them again tomorrow because they are familiar with the way in which they coordinate with judges and also with the content as a whole. Well, not just that! One comment they had, including Mr Posedi, who came to the Committee, said they saw the problem of how we would coordinate, because the Constitutional Court had ordered that we should also coordinate with the officials the level of the wage class in the procedure when the Government proposes the budget each year and each year determine the value of the wage class, which then applies to everyone. The value is one thing, but it has meant that we must foresee it in the law, and we are doing so in Article 2, also in the way that we will discuss this issue with the judges. And Mr Posei said how we would coordinate it. I explained this to the committee that this means only greater effort for the government, because it will have to coordinate on the one hand with the public sector unions and also with the officials to seek a balanced value of the pay grade, which will then be uniform for all. It is no longer a matter of fear, and it is also known by the public sector trade unions, that this solution would create a repulsion of demands for doctors, professors and other public servants whose salaries are regulated by the Public Sector Wages Act. Undisputedly with the position we set out today with this novel, judges remain, I stress, comparable to officials and certainly no longer with other public servants. Not because this government wants to, they're officials. As I initially read, the chapter in the Constitution is the Court of Justice from Articles 125 to 134. The Constitution provides them with the position of officials. We don't have doctors in the constitution, we don't have teachers. And all these other categories maintain nine supplements, ten classes of advancements, only three additional officers, only four more classes of advanced circuit, three district, two higher and no more supreme. Thus, the positions of the employees whose salaries are regulated in the public sector collective contract and the officials, namely Members, Ministers and others, namely the President, Mayors and Judges, 1713 us now in this country, the visas of the remaining 165 000 public servants - they will not be able to compare this to those of the unions. So that the fear of the beach of new demands, because of the arrangement that has gone in all directions, is now comparable to officials and not employees, of course, is no longer justified. He's no longer eligible. Any request that comes, any request from another professional group, will receive the answer that I have now given to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The head of the Zares Group, Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem, informed me and handed me a letter, publicly written to the judiciary and the response of the judicial society. I have multiplied both letters and they will be distributed to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you for your words, Mr Vice President, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The time to resolve this problem is not appropriate, despite the decision of the Constitutional Court. We could make a deal and wait. I am for the fair payment of salaries paid out of the budget and also for the payment of salaries to managers in a company where the country has a sufficient share. In our country, we must finally move on to the righteous division of what has been created and make an end to the way in which pockets are filled. It was said that the work of the judges had been evaluated. Have we ever in all these eighteen years asked ourselves how we evaluated the work of a farmer, a worker? All these things were said: We are building a country, patient and so forth. And they suffered and suffered one to the end. The success of Slovenia in economic growth is an elephant in the structure of the economy as we have in Slovenia on the low wages of employees in this economy. And these workers, farmers, didn't have the opportunity and knowledge to sue anyone for their "kobayagi" underpaid income. We should all be aware that all of us are paid out of taxes, including those people who have such low personal incomes. I believe that the time of crisis is time for a general renewal of wage policy, when, with the sincere will, how much pay is regulated, starting with salaries financed from the budget. Employees in government, parliament, health care, culture, education and so on should be aware that they are paid from tax sources and that if the tax revenues of the country are reduced, personal income of employees should also be reduced from above down to the minimum wage. This way could also be stimulating for all those employees in this country who have to worry about whether we have to worry about the good functioning of our economy and the budget charging. According to my memory, back in the first government, Dr. Janez Drnovška launched this plaza of personal income right in front of the judges, and then there were teachers, doctors and so on. You know what hurt the most at the time? That all of them, in particular, scratched for their salaries, for the salaries of the professional people who allowed them to do this work, but they didn't care much about it and left it to them. What's left. Perhaps we remember that the nurses in their union were very late in organizing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u78	Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Kres. I'm just stressing, we agreed, and they'll wait. They'll wait a year and a half, so by the end of 2010. The work of judges that is devalued - the government has never talked about it. The Constitutional Court has merely made it clear that they are officials, and the Constitution gives them this position. And it will never again be possible to expect the beach that has always been in the past; therefore, one professional group against another professional group. Therefore, the officers of the Judges, from this solution, will continue to speak and coordinate with Members, Ministers and other officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I am pleased to see you answer each and every one of you individually, which suggests personal concern. I'd open up another subject when we're talking constitutional rights. You know, the National Assembly has already adopted a number of laws that are inconsistent with the Constitution, and that's nothing to worry about. However, I am concerned that constitutional rights are a category only for the privileged in the country and that at the time of the recession - of course, such as today when we close visible Slovenian companies - we find time, will and desire to coordinate this right for judges in the pay system. It is true that the Constitutional Court has found a discrepancy, but I believe that there is no such special need to regulate it in such a way and as you have approached it. Why don't you worry, Prime Minister, about companies owned by the state, and you pay wages that are bigger than the Prime Minister's salary? I speak for almost all state-owned companies can - after the same hoof: railways, electric companies, public institutions, Telekom also judges are in the middle - when they have a higher salary than Mr Pahor has himself. And the doctors, Dars. Not to mention other companies. In short, there are many of these directors, including managers who receive more than Members for quality work, or ministers, or prime ministers themselves, and you are not worried about that. You are also not concerned that there is no longer the meat processing industry of Primorska, that there is no more Moore, that there is no actual Tobacco, a factory that we have closed long ago, but in some ways it bears the name of Slovenia. That there is no longer Kolinska, that there is no more Drugs, that there are no more many other companies, which also meant something in the Slovenian space. The terms of office are permanent, and if it's not a privilege that you can be on a chair permanently for unquality work, then I don't know what a privilege is. These judges, look, because of their inadequacy, they're also causing backlogs, and no one's talking about the responsibility on their part. Inadequate judgments give rise to a complaint, and the appeal is a backlog. You're the one who set the reward for the backlog. These same judges receive a reward for being misjudged. Wrong world. Is that right? Or is it right that a worker who works honestly at a factory for 190 hours doesn't even get a guaranteed personal income because he decided to, I don't know, some manager, and pays him half of his personal income at the checkpoint. In the event that we have pointed out in the Slovenian National Party the corruption of the courts, corruption, alleged corruption, abuse. In Cyprus, we have a case where Mrs Jožica Velkavra is in charge of the court, together with Mr Velkavre's lawyer, who is essentially rounding up the proceedings in the family business. They probably write that at home. The President of the Supreme Court, Mr Testen, received a lot of complaints about this, but you did not decide on it either in the Government or in any other body. Not just us, a lot of them complained about it. And there are quite a few cases where we have proved that the court is also helping in so-called criminal associations, in the damage to economic property, and this court is deeply involved in the General Navigation. That doesn't bother anyone. Why are we talking about having to raise the judges' wages if it's you who's saying, Your Honor, that this isn't going to happen? Fighting because you're going to reduce the number of employees by 115, or I don't know how many, naturally fluctuating judges, and you won't need EUR 5.8 million. Good. You're also saying that they're not going to get any bigger because they're already down 4%, and those that are going to get bigger are going to get up 4%. Wrong world. It has also reduced our personal income by 4% and no one will return it to us and we do not ask Members to correct it. However, if I compare paragraphs 16, 17, I see that there is an increase in personal income and also in payment classes. And I would like to remind you that in such a way that we do not have meetings for the meat-producing industry, for Mura, when we do not have meetings for the closure of companies owned by the state, the directors pay their own salaries when we do not meet in the National Assembly when it comes to the rights of workers and when we do not have meetings for those workers who have earned the job's soy wages, they do not get it, while we find meetings for the Gypsies, for the deleted, for the judges - you throw a bad light on the fact that you understand the social situation. I would say that in the National Assembly we only deal with these things: deleted, gypsies, and the privilege of judicial service. Another smart one in this crisis moment, when we should react so that the right to work becomes a constitutional category and also provides new jobs, especially you in the government, the government should be looking for new jobs at this time of crisis to fill those 45,000 people waiting for work that we sent to the institution this year. Yesterday I was horrified to hear the Prime Minister say that they are the most successful in reducing the number of unemployed. This year alone, 45 thousand have lost their right to work. We're approaching a hundred thousand, and that doesn't bother anyone. We close the excellent companies that were a parade horse in the Slovenian economy, and this does not bother anyone in the National Assembly, even the government does not mind, the Prime Minister comes from Primorska, from Gorica, where he allowed the Volk family to close the most respected company that had the name Slovenia around the world. And today we have this marriage ahead of us. It's a shame for me. Of course I won't support it. Let's talk about how we're going to share when it's a little bit full and we're going to have surpluses. So far, there's no room for that. And when you've got the salaries of state-owned companies, of directors at the level of ministerial wages - then I'll listen to you. Now I think that this is a surplus of everything and that this is a completely unnecessary discussion. I would even suggest that you withdraw this law from the procedure and we will talk when the recession is over for Slovenia and when we are in some greater position to share. We're not today. Although you are deceiving when you say that we will give nothing, because after the natural fluctuation of 100 and so many judges we will forgive and because we will not increase their salaries until 2010. It's a delusion. This is a delusion for me, for we know that some wages will be increased by now. And I would say, when you compare the work done and evaluate the wages paid to the judges today, and when you arrest someone for the collar, and say, "Why has there been so many unsolved cases behind you?" We had a case like this, you know, and that's what the National Assembly talked about, and no one called anyone to account. And this judge caused a lot of damage due to negligence. Nothing happened! When a worker makes a mistake in direct production, he loses his right to work under the Labour Relations Act. That's the truth. And as long as you protect your back with a judicial service, which is an autonomous branch of power, by giving them the opportunity to earn well and to do even half a private job, you will probably sleep more peacefully in this troubled sea. That's what I understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Friend, in order to have no feeling that the Minister is less attentive to you than to others, she has asked for the floor to answer you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I won't repeat it, Mr. Friend. Words from politicians have a particular weight - and you know exactly that it is not true that we are not just dealing with the problems of the categories you listed in our country. You know exactly that we only had a deadline of 6 months, and so in June 2009 it was due to harmonise the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System in specific parts, with the decision of the Constitutional Court. They didn't make the first decision, they made the second. Of course, I am a lawyer, and respect for the Constitution of certain rights has a particular weight on me. For this reason, I have made all my efforts, as I initially said, to regulate the position of judges in line with the Constitution and without increasing wages for judicial officials. It was some kind of art and a high understanding of the judicial officials of the situation we are in. That is why coordination took so long. You really talked me into why I'm not worried about state-owned companies? Why am I not worried? Mr Friend, you must admit that we are the first government, but it is also true that the crisis has flooded the surface of all the defects that we have installed today in Slovenian systems in various areas. At the proposal of Minister Lahovnik, the government had already begun to deal with the level of salaries in state-owned enterprises. Please look at the Government’s website, you will see a regulation that has been prepared and where we have set a significantly lower level of wages for state-owned enterprises and for companies where the state-founding country is and for the energy sector. All that you have mentioned, all the competent ministers, in particular the Ministers for Finance, Transport and Economic Activities, have called on the Supervisory Councils to require the administrations of these companies to adapt their salaries to these recommendations. Remember, Minister Lahovnik was very clear: they will no longer enjoy our trust if they do not. There's been a lot of evidence to this government that we're demagogic, and so on, that we think we're doing political points, but we did it. We have recently come to a conclusion where we are dealing with unjustified privileges that have been expressed in the past by individual senior heads of administration, and so on, in state-owned enterprises that are in an important part of the monopolies, and we estimate that such situations are not in place. Even in Dars, you probably remember. Because we are all very concerned about this and because we want to address all the systemic shortcomings that have accumulated from independence to today, with approaches where we copied very important capitalist systems in certain rights. Look at what's happening in the world today. The presidents of private banks are called on to lower their salaries, and in fact these contracts have been the standard for all other developed countries, even for us these contracts on the rights of managers have been prescribed from the economy, including the level of dismissals and other privileges are similar to that of the economy. And that we haven't dealt with this until today, it's not right, but today it's all become more obvious. And because it is more obvious that the financial crisis also requires us to deal more openly with it, and the many systems we have to work with, not just judicial salaries, in a way that makes it more systemicly decent and sustainable. Here I fully agree with you, not only do I accept the obvious that the Government has not dealt with this and has taken full action within the framework of its competences.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend, you'll have a new round later. There's no replica on the replica, we both know it. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u85	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! So, first of all, I must say that I am extremely disappointed with the Government, this coalition and all those who allow themselves to invest in this extremely critical time in such legislation, which further burdens public finances. All along, Madam Minister, you have tried to tell us, fellow Members and Members, as well as the Slovenian public, that there is nothing in this law that judges gain from this law, that I do not know how much they do not raise their salaries and so on, that is how you have tried to explain. And the sentence of the judges, which went on for over a year, were these judges, after what you're saying, saying for nothing, for nothing? So if they didn't get anything important out of it, then it's a really big question of why they were strikers. Then you are also by my estimation here this government some phenomenon; some phenomenon that solves problems, things in the way you try to tell us here in Parliament. You keep talking, you keep trying, and you're trying to prove to us that you're reducing public spending. Your Honor, what you're saying is not true. Public spending is increasing. This country's public debt is increasing. With such laws, you certainly do not reduce public spending. As one of the arguments, you also cited the independence of the judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you if you recall the Mir Petk case and the independence of the judiciary. It would be important to answer that question. Only then could we ask ourselves if that's true what you say it is, whether it's just a fliscole. And for me, it's just a flan. In that case, it was clear exactly how independence worked. Do you remember the deleted? You mentioned them here today. This law, which you have now sent into the procedure of the National Assembly, is similar to that of deleted; both are extremely burdened by public finances. And I don't think you've done anything good with this at a time when this is such a critical situation when we have a financial and economic crisis in Slovenia. Several of my colleagues mentioned the freezing of pensioners' "wages", Mura, not to mention workers in Gorenje, where an employee receives 300 euros per month of personal income with reduced working time. Nobody cares about that in this country, at least not the government. A colleague from the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group mentioned unemployment. I have heard the sentence that we are fourth in the European Union after unemployment. In Slovenia we know exactly what the number of active, employed people is and what this number means for 100,000 unemployed people for Slovenia. And if we compare it to any other larger country, it can tell us a lot. Clearly, this information is extremely, extremely worrying. I'm afraid of something, I've, I think, said a few times already: that if you drive this Slovenian ship along the path you've drawn, I don't think we'll be waiting long for the spiral to come and where the matter will be brought to the point where we can fear the collapse of public finances. And that's probably what no one in this country wants. I am convinced that this law, which you have tabled, Madam Minister, is extremely unfair to those who are barely living, who are extremely difficult to survive and who must live from 300 euros a month. I don't think we should afford that. This is extremely irresponsible, extremely rude to those people, and it is sad that in such a situation, the government, from which people expected significantly more, allows for such slips.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I will remain on a professional level, even though you wanted to say my future political displeasure because of the erased and the judges - you do, of course, okay. You need to know, I'm not worried about anything. All I care about is that in this country we respect constitutionally, we respect the rule of law, because that is the only thing that will guarantee us in the long term and also our children a well-developed country. What did the judges gain? That's exactly what you got them: respect and constitutionally consistent position of officials. The Constitution has given them the position of officials, not you, not me. You have been taking it intensively since 2006, and you have communicated it to the public in an appropriate manner. We are burdening public finances - no, I stress them again, not at the expense of Moore's workers and precisely because of them not; not in 2009 and not in 2010. I've explained, I'm not going to do it again. But there was a lot of work to be done on this very professionally. Public debt increases this government. You know, it's been increased by all the euro area Member States, the EU Member States. But you have also been very helpful to us, not because we would like to, but in the autumn part of 2008, laws were passed with financial implications - and wage reform was detected in the crisis year 2009. It's not a big deal! And then you had to start paying off Dars' loans and stuff. However, public financial revenues have been reduced due to the short-term economy. Every housewife understands that very well. And the deficit was allowed. The members of the euro area have agreed in these crisis years on what these measures can be; and these measures have been taken with full responsibility, with the same dynamics and with the same efficiency in Slovenia as in other Member States where the crisis has the same effect. In fourth place of 27. - it would be better if we were first in number, where we had the least increase in unemployment. I agree! But the measures for which we gave the funds and their judges gave up in 2009 and 2010 because you're right. In order to remedy the anti-constitutional situation, the material situation should be regulated by raising their salaries already in 2009, but because they are reasonable because they understand the crisis in this country, it is clearly stated in the agreement that we have avoided the constitutional review of this law through this agreement. The signatories agreed, i.e. all judges and judicial officials, to make this amendment definitive. 12. 2010 This means that we are worried about people who are losing their jobs and that the resources for the social active employment policy are substantially increasing, significantly faster and at the expense of all that we cannot manage, this is the area of wages.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm playing Robert. I would say in the introduction: the work of judges is certainly difficult and responsible. However, there are also certain differences between judges, some are good judges and work largely, and some are worse, working less or much less. And that was what led us in the previous term to resolve the increase in wages in terms of impact. And the introduction of an increase in wages according to the effect has come to a great deal of resistance. In the first types of these rebels, Mr Zalar was or was the chief of the current Minister of Justice. This is a fact, and it is not surprising that, despite these changes in the country today, it insists on some of the solutions that were already mentioned. There was a lot of reference to the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court has indeed issued a decision, but it has not explicitly stated in this decision how and in what way these salaries must be increased. The data were just guidance. And it is true that in a global way the funds for wages do not increase, but all those funds that have been designed to reduce judicial backlogs are now turning into wages, which will mean - what? Raise wages and increase judicial backlogs! That's what I'm afraid of. I hope that's not the case, but things point to that. It is true that judicial officials are not public officials, but in my view this moment is not well chosen. It's not ethical and solidarity based on what we've been witnessing lately. A lot of redundancies in the economy, the freezing of wages - much talk about this in the public sector - the freezing of pensions and so on. These are the facts we talk about every day. But we have chosen this moment to raise the judges' wages; not for a little while. I think up to 28%, seven pay grade some. That's a big one. As far as the lawsuits are concerned. The lawsuits are due to so-called disproportionates in the 1990s and now in this situation it is, I will say, to you, the distinguished representative of the government, this moment irresponsible. And what's interesting about these lawsuits of judges - what's going to happen? The state will pay if the judges insist, including the costs of – in my opinion – an absurd trial. How will the procedure proceed? The judge paid from the budget shall sue the State represented by the Advocate, who has brought an action and is paid from the budget, and the judge who brought the action himself and is paid from the budget. Is that funny? In my opinion, it is. But, unfortunately, it's also real. I repeat that the moment chosen to comply with this constitutional decision, of which you speak so much and so loudly, the Government and the coalition, is inappropriate. Especially because wages actually rise to people who are not financially or economically at risk. They are not at all as threatened as those workers who are losing their jobs, who have already lost their jobs in the streets today, and I suppose they will be tomorrow and another day ahead, because the situation in this country is not good and is worrying. And it's those people who expect the government's most help, not the judges. These people who are losing their jobs are most in need of your help. I'm talking about yours as governments. I propose that, despite the fact that the law is at its final stage, let us all stop together, because the end of the decision is on us, Members and Members, not on the government. We're the ones who'll end up making the decisions. Let's stop saying, let's give ourselves some time to think about it, let's do it. I think it would be right to interrupt this debate, because this moment is simply not appropriate for this debate, because it is not fair to those who are truly at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Excuse me, Madam Minister has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u91	No offense, but anyone who speaks in this room - because I know you have a pre-prepared text, but I expect you to at least initially listen to me - to raise the judges' salaries in 2009 and 2010 [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] - There will be enough time, thank you for your concern, Mr Miro - salary increases in 2009 and 2010 will not be exactly because those who expect unemployment assistance will also receive it from this government. It is also on the basis of the fact that the judges agreed not to harmonise their financial salaries in 2009 and 2010. However, at the end of 2010, under the assumption of a reduction in the number of judges by 116, which means the exact same effect as achieved by the increase in basic wage classes. Please be correct. Read the law, read the transitional provisions - wages do not increase in 2009 and 2010!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary! I have listened attentively to the Minister today, especially in the first part, when she wanted to justify in every way and explain that the rise is not an increase - the salaries of the court. I estimate that yesterday the President of the Government made a mistake; not Mr Kuntaric, Mrs Irmo Pavlinič Krebs should have been sent to Mura! I could successfully explain to the owners that raising wages is not an increase in wages and will not constitute an additional cost for the company. The company will function normally, live and work will receive higher wages and all but a few tens will have jobs. Now, if the Government and the President of the Government of the Hecata, when, for example, the greatest success in the internal political field is announced by 30,000 more unemployed in a year and in a foreign political fiasco in negotiations with Croatia, we must at least remain serious in the opposition in this jest and in this confusion. The circumstances in which you come to the National Assembly with this law and with which you will raise your wages are not favorable. They're not pleasant. With the operation you will establish a levelling device, an even greater inefficiency. The arrows of discontent to the public, the critical arrows of the public, will be even sharper and will fly precisely against those on which we all want their reputation in the public eye to be greater, that is, against the judges. There's no win-win situation in this operation. Everyone's just gonna lose. Everybody! Independence of judges. Will this increase the independence of the judges about whom there was so much talk? Just as I listened to you, Madam Minister, I got the feeling that this independence was given to the judges by God. It's not. Not a day from God. It is defined by the Constitution, it is justified in the Constitution and we have heard, the judges are bound by the Constitution and the law, and there is another right in this constitution, the right to a trial within a reasonable time. Do the judges take it into account? Are they sticking to this fundamental postulate? Are they acting in accordance with this constitutional principle, or is the right for only one? For a few hundred, for a few thousand in this country - 1,200 we've heard that - for all the other 2 million or half million, as many court cases are currently pending, not. The Constitution is one, indivisible and must apply to all. Inefficiency is therefore a cancer of justice. The truth is loving, not only depends on the judicial branch of power, to a large extent, it also depends on systemic solutions. And we would expect, in this situation all the more so, the situation in the spring was conducive to systemic change, both in this and in other areas, in order to come up with coordinated solutions to rationalising the functioning of the public administration, all the other subsystems that would make it easier to justify all the other changes that should have been made in order for Slovenia in these economic circumstances to actually find an effective way to overcome the crisis itself. Not only has no judge been out of work in the last year - none! Even a few ten of them were reconfirmed in the National Assembly from your side. How many people have lost their jobs during this period? 30,000. I don't think there's any valid reason for what you're doing today. When you speak of respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court, all decisions must be respected. Amendments could also be implemented in such a way that they do not intervene materially in this area. And one of the constitutional rights that is not respected in this country, but not in the last year at all, is the right to work. This government has completely lost its compass. I think we should deal with completely different issues in these situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Anyone else in the second round? I'm opening the application. The first is Mr Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Minister Zalar, with other judges, has brought an action before the Constitutional Court and has reached a state which, at the moment, puts the state, on the basis of its interpretation and interpretation of the judges, in some way even before bankruptcy. Judges are mass-proclaimed, although it is - as I understand here in Jolanda Leber's contribution, 16. 9. - former Constitutional Judge John Cebulj reasoned that this was not the right basis and that it was not lawful to cover it with law. Nevertheless, we have heard that one judgment is already legally binding, to which, interestingly, the defence did not complain, even though the former Constitutional Judge was aware of it. I'm also wondering if this is about corruption, because lawyers have also been making such applications. This is gonna have to be cleared up. [[The secretary's gone out now.]] On the other hand, I consider it to be a misinterpretation of the Constitutional Court decision concerning these increases and the translation into higher wage classes. Indeed, in its explanation of the Constitutional Court’s decision, the Constitutional Court allowed even a reduction in the salaries of judges, resulting from recitals 84, 85 and 86, and in particular from footnotes 35 and 86. Indeed, there the Constitutional Court says: "The property of judges before the reduction of salaries during the duration of the term of office under Article 125 of the Constitution is not absolute." However, it means that the reduction in judicial salaries can only be justified in truly exceptional cases. I'm here now absolutely not advocating a reduction in wages so that someone doesn't get it wrong. But if the court allows in exceptional cases when it comes to an exceptional economic situation due to the state of the national economy, which at this point is probably what we are - the current government that has brought it into this situation does not deny it - then the increase in wages at this point is controversial. And this will not be the freezing of wages or the relationship they are now set up, of course they are not in conflict with the Constitutional Court’s decision. For, because of the state of the national economy and if these are serious reasons affecting salaries throughout the public sector, it is even possible to reduce salaries to judges after a decision by the Constitutional Court. If this is possible, it is, of course, permissible to freeze their wages on the existing condition. It is therefore clear at this point that the reasons why this proposed law is not adopted and we will be in breach of the Constitutional Court's decision. That's perfectly clear. Of course, Minister Zalar and the Government have set the matter in motion and have brought it so far. Now, firmly at the expense of the state defends its political interests, which, I think, is unheard of. They would rather sink the country than save the country, rather than admit that they fought in some previous period, not so much for the rights of judges, but more for their political interests, to oppose the former government, which is politically legitimate. And look. Let me say more about this debate on judicial salaries and full parity with Members. I am immediately in favour of ensuring that judges protected by a permanent mandate come to the level, absolutely, with Members, but that in the judiciary it is determined that they themselves determine 40% of the judges who are poorly performing their duties, which are terminated by their permanent term of office, every four years. Just like the Members who get caught up in this. I wonder if they'll insist on the same salaries. And if that were the case, it would be the immediate solution to the backlog. I am sure that in these four years we would have eliminated all the delays if the judges were aware that 40% of their membership in the next term, from then on, would no longer meet the conditions for a judge because they were working too poorly. Unfortunately, that's not what the judiciary is thinking. He sees only opportunities or he also envys the Members and others of my income. So, at this point in time, there are such increases when this government brought the economy to bankruptcy, when the country is in bankruptcy, I find it absolutely irresponsible and it is not true that this decision of the Constitutional Court is conditional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. Thus, the salary reform, which included the salaries of judges, took many years and was also completed in the previous term, and the salaries were the basis for determining the salaries ratios, and even though the minister says that this is not the case and that it is not expected that anyone else would want any changes in the pay system, it is certainly true that the pay relationship with this is falling, changing and will certainly be faced with this in the very near future. Thus, wage reform has been completed, and many more steps have been taken to ensure that Slovenia's rakrano, the real problems in the area of justice and justice, the abolition of backlogs have been implemented and managed to accelerate with some new system. So we can get rid of the backlogs. Therefore, wage reform has also given rise to different rewards, rewards for those who have been willing to do more even at the time of the strike, and have also successfully eliminated judicial backlogs, and the smart master, which the government is supposed to be at this time, would have kept those things that are good and which have produced positive results. You yourself have entered into a coalition contract to ensure that you pay for competitive jobs in the public sector, good technocracy must be paid well, but also rewarded those who are good at more. With this, of course, you change all of this because you are eliminating some of the supplements that judges can get and get are those who were willing to do more. Now we're returning the whole thing to fixed income, we're removing the variability, and again everyone will be paid a little more, but through a single system, not to reward those who know and are able to do more. And the moment the Minister of Public Administration and Minister Zalar agreed with the judges, they decided to sue and sue the state. And to claim that wages in this year and in 2010 are not rising - that is true, but this is another manoeuvre, that is, a manoeuvre similar to the one with the vignettes - we will now inspire them, people will not see it by December when we have to buy the vignettes for next year. It's similar here. When things come into force, we'll just say, "It's too late to ring the bell." We, too, take seriously the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which we have seen several times today, so in 2007 and 2008 wages were raised for one pay grade, including judges, but of course they were never satisfied with it, especially since there was then another government that had to make its work impossible in every way possible. And the secretary said that we took respect from the judges. Please! Respect is gained by work, honesty, honesty, and so forth. And if anyone is guilty of not being as respectable as they might be, it is likely that Judge Šubic, who forgot to file the suit in Elan's case, who did not order the investigation in the Zidar-Penko case, is the investigation of the car and the apartment; perhaps the judges who were able to award or award the abnormal awards to the bankruptcy administrators and something like that within seven days. But some of our citizens have been waiting for years and decades, and nothing happens. So about who lost their respect - it's probably just the judges themselves. When they face this, but not only insist on aligning themselves with Members and other officials, we will probably take a step further. Of course, I will support our amendment, but I will not fully support the law, because I am convinced that this would also cause great injustice to many other civil servants who have been involved in wage reform and are included in certain wage classes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. I have great reservations about the proposed law myself. Because in the climate that is now in Slovenia, in times of crisis, I can't imagine being rewarded in the area where there is bad work, where there are backlogs. We have witnessed in the newspaper how these judicial backlogs affect the economy itself, because the lawsuits lie for years, and companies are suing from a few million to 10 million, where liquidity would have to take place long ago, either after the settlement, if it is not recoverable, or for the real financial flow. Thus, in the economic field, judicial backlogs are certainly causing major problems. And now if I compare. Some industries are aware of and respond to crises. I have information that managers in companies receiving state aid for the underprivileged, i.e. 32- and 36-hour workers, went from 5% to 45% down with salaries. Most of them at least 20%. So they are aware and responding to the crisis. In the field of justice, where there are judicial backlogs, where skeletons fall from closets, where judgments get old and fall, we do not even know how to separate good and effective from bad. Above all - it is true that this law may only be in force in a year or two, but before we adopt the law, it is already threatened with lawsuits If this continues, so that there will be no increase in wages in this year and the following year, these lawsuits will only increase. And that sum they're going to want to sue will only be bigger. That is why I think that in some other way, a determined way of regulating this area should be adapted to the time we are witnessing to it, that is, to the economic crisis, and in particular to compare what is comparable. Everyone would like a permanent term of office of our kind. If we align ourselves, let us compare ourselves equally: for a four-year review of judicial effectiveness, then I would somehow agree to equal pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I have to say, I'm not a legal expert and I wasn't going to come forward, but what's going on today is certainly too much. I will help the Minister defend certain positions in which the rule of law stands and falls. I am sorry, however, that there are no more people in this House to discuss this. One such people, whom everyone understands, is that there are few good things that are justly distributed in the world. Two of them must be who we all agree with. In fact, if we were talking about intelligence and sexual strength, we would all insist that they got it the most. When we talk about wages, it's the opposite, everyone thinks they have too little. And this is the story of today and today. Colleagues and colleagues, if anyone thinks that judges whose situation is set by the Constitution are overly paid, then let's look at ourselves first, then the salaries of Members are too great. So this system was constitutionally set up and regulated. But I didn't hear anyone say that I'd be self-critical, and I'd say we have too much pay. This is part of the truth. Secondly, today we can read in the Journal a truly perfect article The Judge has become profanity in this country." Something that should be the pillar of a democratic, parliamentary system operating with an independent judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the basis and condition for every society. Do we want judges who once strike to sue again? No! No! Our job as legislators is to put them in the law exactly where the constitution put them, and then there will be peace. Many wondered if anyone would take advantage of the rights of workers who had lost their jobs and their rights had been violated, and whether anyone would step on their fingers to managers who had certainly done a lot of wrong and in these times of crisis would come this day. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are to achieve the rights of workers and correct the injustices committed by managers, then we certainly need a fair, independent and professional judiciary. What do I want from the judges? Not much: that we all have as little business as possible with them as possible, but when they judge by law, to judge fairly, quickly and effectively. And above all, that before marriage we are all equal. That's all it's about. Today a whole bunch of readings have been said, and I'm going to try to answer those that were last said. A colleague from below Pohorje was quoted by Minister Aleš Zalar, of course, as taking the stand and helping the judges in the lawsuits for the underpaid salaries. Very wrong, gentlemen. The Minister never sued for underpaid salaries, had nothing to do with it, and was the first to call the prosecutor, the prosecutor, the judges and the judge to act responsibly towards this country. Of course, I will not list the names and names of judges, judges or accused politicians and officials, as some colleagues have allowed before me. There is, of course, no comment on the decisions of the court in a decent state of law. If you disagree with them, you complain; otherwise, you respect them and execute them. We, in the National Assembly, even have problems with the decisions of the Constitutional Judge. One Member was mentioned earlier, but they forgot to tell someone else who was recognised as a legal error because he was wrong to pay a private charge out of budget money. That's what you've forgotten in that list of yours, and maybe the second time you're doing this, say that. There was also much talk about a permanent judicial mandate. The cases were unrealistic, misleading, and some even malicious, that the permanent term of judges meant that judges were untouchable. If someone says that on the street, I buy it and respect it. But if someone who's been working for years in the government and the justice system says that, it's a huge lie and a demagogic. The permanent mandate is intended to ensure that judges are not cast out of influence from the outside, especially political and other pressures. However, it does not mean that judges bear no responsibility. The Law on Judicial Service knows effective and strict mechanisms that monitor how judges carry out their functions and the mission entrusted to them. Each judge shall be subjected to a detailed examination at least every three years, as the Special Personal Council shall examine his work in detail. If the judge fails to achieve the expected results, he shall be liable to negative sanctions. That means he's not making any progress in the system. However, if the judge fails to achieve good results, it is also possible to assess that such a judge does not correspond to the judicial function. The whisperers yell at me who was like this - I agree with you. There were certainly few of them, but they certainly were, and many of them from this system of judges were sent back to private legal authorities to ensure that proceedings against them were not completed and that this was not a negative reference to them. This is definitely happening every week, every day and every day. The judges were the novices mentioned. The judges of the novice are checked not for three years, the novice judges are checked every year. While the sustainability of the mandate does not really protect against work or non-professionality, these are the basis for a negative assessment. The number of judges who would have lost their mandate for this reason is not very much in practice, but I stress once again, just because they are giving up their own judicial service before the assessment that they do not meet this service becomes final. This avoids negative references and burns when looking for a new job. Therefore, it is logical that the judicial mandate of the breeders should be returned by themselves when they are faced with this possibility that something will happen because of the irregular work. If you look at statistics, there are not so many such cases in this country. It has also been heard that because of a small number of possible advances, judges will not be motivated. It's a deceiving again. A judge who has to be reviewed every three years if he is not a beginner and is reviewed every year depends on a positive assessment of the judicial service in progress. Therefore, if the assessment is positive, it is even more important that, in the event of a negative assessment, the judge already stands at the threshold of the loss of a mandate that can be met. The judge for quality and efficiency of work is therefore motivated not only by progress but also by the threat of losing a permanent mandate if he fails to achieve a positive assessment. I would like to draw a parallel between judges and Members myself, that there may also be a system for electives and voters to call someone to account before the end of their four-year term of office. What does the current government proposal bring? The differences between the lowest salaries are now 7 classes, and it is not too much to add that there are not enough Members who would have a lower salary than the 55th grade, if there are too many, and then, of course, a certain number of commissions of inquiry are established to raise those who do not have other obligations in this pay grade. Differences also remain between the highest salaries, as the highest judicial salaries remain at the top half of the range foreseen for parliamentary salaries and do not reach the highest grade. Thus, the salaries of the judges are by no means equal to that of the Members of Parliament and even less so of the Ministers. But it is true that they are now comparable with this arrangement that we will now implement. However, this is certainly the moment when we in the National Assembly will tell A that judges say in terms of quality and responsibility of their work as well as B. To make certain procedures that are clear and crystal clear, and perhaps in certain prosecutorial drawers wait - I don't know what, I won't say, but I can say my own - but things are clear, clear and transparent, but they don't go forward; to end once with the crazy story of denationalisation; to end one injustice that has certainly been done and is doubtless, to correct with other injustices, by delaying proceedings. I have repeatedly pointed out the problem that those who were foreign nationals in denationalisation have been returned twice. In my case of the Municipality of Tržič denacijacija Vila Bistrica, I proved this. 14 days before the 5-year expiry date, we received from the London Archives an original document proving that everything they requested in 1957 had already been paid. And we quickly put some real politicians and real governments back. When I mentioned to Minister Sturm in the previous term that the state itself and the courts should take the initiative to search the archives and verify how many those who have already received the case have already been paid, we have now returned to them, and we will also give them a few 10 million large doses to make order here. Not by correcting one injustice with another, which will be paid, not by us, but by our children. Those are the stories. Or the most banal example of agrarian communities, because, of course, we have such legislation that they are physically incompetent, and the minister said to me, "Look, Mr. Young Member, if they have waited 50 years for the correction of injustices, they will wait for the next 20 to be completed." These are unreasonable, unfair and irrational decisions, and this is certainly the task of the courts to give us initiatives to correct the laws and to act quickly and effectively. All those who will think that in times of crisis even this segment of our society does not need to be regulated, you mean simply wrong. Of course, it is important to stand up for all those who find it difficult at this time, but the judicial branch of power will protect their rights. Today we have a law on the table concerning judges, the next day we will have one of the laws concerning the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. I'm glad I'm in a coalition that supports the government that doesn't run away from acid problems, but saves them, even if that's why it loses its support. Responsible policy does not do what the electorate and the electorate will do every day, every moment, but what is good and best for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u102	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! So this morning, when I was going to work, I was stopped by a lady near Prešeren's monument and said, "You're from Parliament and today you're going to increase the judges' salaries." Well, then we had a little chat, and she told me that she's had an 18-year-old case in court since 1991. The court record is probably in a drawer somewhere; since it is dealing with an important person of the left political eminence, of course, this remains in the drawer. 18 years! And this lady did not say that in her eyes the judges are in bad shape because of the salary, but because of these 18 years, which is dragging her file to court, and the fact is that it is also her existence. She even said about the wages: "Take their wages, don't give them." I said, "This is the case, it will probably be voted out, but not by my vote, but not by the voice of the party I belong to, SDS, but so it is." As a result, judges also have a poor reputation for resorting to judicial proceedings for such a long time, not because of wages. Given that the Minister has mentioned constitutional rights today, and on the basis of these constitutional rights, we have to increase the salaries of judges, I would say that we have constitutional rights for other citizens. The workers have them, and the workers of Mura, and the workers of Gorenje, and the Glass New and 30,000 of those young people, 30,000 of those young people who have completed colleges, higher education, and do not get a job, are enrolled exceptionally to continue the study that they have to pay for - they also have constitutional rights! And, Madam Secretary, you told the doctors and the professors and the others that you would fix what they were up to, they should wait a year and a half. That's what you said. I wrote it down. And for the judges, this repair needs to be done immediately. I'm asking you, will you know in a year and a half? Do you know what's gonna happen in a year and a half so you can fix it? You don't even know what happened yesterday. You don't know what happened last week, you don't know what was going on in Mura and Gorenje, that workers gave up trust to their union trustees and leadership. What if they also give up confidence to negotiators regarding public sector salaries, doctors and professors who are now going to somehow "elevate"?Oh, my God! What if they say we don't trust the Minister of Public Administration anymore? Didn't you learn anything from that? And you're talking about how in a year and a half you're going to correct the wrongs of doctors and others who are now going to remain in an unequal position. In addition, when judges wanted to, and you also argued that they had the right to compare themselves with Members and that they would now be equal. They won't be the same. Now they're all above us. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] above us and over the officers, because they have a permanent mandate. [[...]] Someone has already said today that they would probably give a group of two, four or five for a permanent term, because we are officers in the elections, we are [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u105	The following indications should be answered. Dear Mr. Petan, I was misunderstood. I didn't say that because of what's going to happen to this novel today, in a year and a half, we're just going to fix it -- so you quoted me -- he's paying teachers and doctors to wait for them too. No! No! These two categories of employees, each with their own important role in our social system, are separated by how these positions are defined by the Constitution. And the Constitution for some reason, because it defines the position of judges as officers. And I said that these payroll groups could no longer be compared in the future. That's what I said. I also said that, because of all the problems in Mura, in other companies, this government is eliminating the anti-constitutional situation in a way that has agreed with the judges that there will be no pay imbalances earlier than within almost two years of the agreement. That's what I texted. As a result of this, the unions with which we talk about the changed situation when we talk about a collective agreement for the public sector must not mix these two positions. The salaries of officials are determined by law. We've also reduced them by 4% by law, you know that. And between 1700 and 1700, almost 1,300 judicial officials, judges, state attorneys and prosecutors contributed to the reduction. Everyone else belongs to the legislative and executive branch of government and to NGOs and mayors in Slovenia. They'll only compare with officials. Therefore, there is no fear that a single payment system will be broken in the future, as it is today. The Constitutional Court says these salaries are determined by law. For civil servants, Mr Petan, the contract currently lays down all the elements of the salary. And since your Government has agreed, under different macroeconomic conditions, to address the pay gap to other civil servants by the end of 2010, we are informing the unions that the situation has changed or that the wage imbalances 1.1.2010 and 1.3.2010 should be eliminated, which would mean an additional EUR 250 million increase in the salaries of public servants who are not officials. This is a matter of completely different positions, so please do not mix them with each other. We don't favor judges either. The arrangement, as it is before you today, actually governs the situation. And I am very pleased that a number of Members of the SDS Group today have acknowledged that they are not really public servants, which has been an extremely great advance since the past years. At that time you defined them as those who provide public services and which are exactly the same as other employees. It was simply wrong that you did not recognize the situation that the Constitution provided for them, which was in fact a major problem all these years. And to settle this today, of course, it is normal - the deadline expired in June 2009 and we are already late. The financial implications, however, have been shifted to 2011 due to a great understanding of the judges. And that, the government ensures that they will be neutral, because by then 116 judges will be less. The Minister of Justice has in his hands all the mechanisms not to sign substitutes when people go to retirement or work in the real sector or go to other waters, there are no substitutes in this part. And the dynamics, when about 50 judges leave for retirement each year, suggest that in this area too we would be able to ensure that we do not increase the amount of wages required for the salaries of officials.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u106	Ma'am mag. Spending. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I must say that today's debate on the amendment runs on the expected scenario, as the amendment has been tabled by a parliamentary group that opposes the adoption of the law. Therefore, it is logical to ask what can be achieved by an amendment which, however, also corrects the classification of third-party officials in the payment system. It is also a question of whether a person, for rational reasons, can convince those who do not trust them in the judicial branch of power and how to convince those who use this debate to attack on a variety of problems and those who should solve problems. It has been heard that the current government has put the state in such a position and that this government has brought the country to bankruptcy, and this situation is supposed to be one that does not allow the state of remuneration of judges to be regulated in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court. Some feel that it would never be the right time to regulate the salaries of judges. This was also possible in the previous term because I see the problem of the misunderstanding of the various parties, including the negotiating parties, between the judiciary and the minister in charge of this area in the previous term, to the extent that the judges have also decided on a ruling. I'm not going to talk about the verdict, I'm thinking about it, and I'm going to think about the question of whether the officials are entitled to the sentence. I am not going to discuss this either, or I will say my opinion that I think that officials should not sue the state for regulating things that are related to rights, but I think it was a gentleman's agreement, as they say, which was not respected, on the whole side was interrupted, but a gentleman knows what is appropriate. And from an ethical point of view, I find this matter questionable, even though it is among those who filed an action against the State, by the opposition also some highly esteemed person. But these are things that are beyond the capacity to prove to the contrary or to those who oppose the law in order to change their position. On several occasions, I have already pointed out that the Constitution does not guarantee, regrettably, no more, the right to work. The Constitution only guarantees the right to free choice of work. And so talking about the unemployed and the growing number of unemployed at the time of the court's salaries is the integration of unrelated things. In view of the fact that no judge has lost his job, that he has not lost his job, it can also be seen from a number of cases of separation from the judicial service that the quality of the work carried out would not pass the quality assessment or that the discharges from the judicial service are also linked to a lack of respect for the judicial profession. The talk was about ensuring respect by virtue, work, honesty. And we're talking about another phenomenon. About the appearance of mistrust in some profession, to some profession that is not individualized. I'm sure if anyone were to be asked if he knew anyone among the judges who respected him, anyone would be able to name someone. But when we talk about judges as a profession, the level of respect for this profession is actually respectful. For the third time, I have been monitoring the erosion of confidence in judges and in the judiciary, and I am also following the Ombudsman's comments, which mainly points to the violation of human rights, which is called a trial within a reasonable time. These are all problems, no one denies these problems. We are likely to face the problem of entering the judicial service and of the attractiveness of this profession in young people as soon as possible. If I experience the fate of a 30-year-old or 30-year-old woman who plans her career and decides to pursue a profession that is not valued in society, this is not a good decision for me and cannot be paid any reward in terms of regular monthly income. It is wrong, and I regret that this is said by a man who certainly knows that this is not true, which he claimed is never lost and never lost. This is not true because judges also have mechanisms or mechanisms for judicial review of the quality of work performed. The quality control of the work carried out shall be altered according to the length of the judicial service. It is therefore understandable that it is the most common at the start of execution. Therefore, it is not a coincidence that, before obtaining the right to enter a permanent term of office, the Court of First Instance shall, three times a year in a row, pass a check on the experts appointed to do so, decide whether his work has been satisfied with the standards expected of him. Therefore, to say that there is no mechanism under which a judge could not lose the right to carry out this service is inconclusive. In this case, however, I would hope to claim that it is even a lie because I doubt that this lie was uttered unknowingly. The case concerning the loss of a permanent term is not the same as some, on every occasion, sell it once a judge, always a judge. That's not true. And it would be good to be aware of that when we talk about it. And that we are aware that a young man entering a judicial profession must be aware that he will not be able to do anything else in his life in a judicial profession. If someone becomes a teacher or a teacher, even at the university - and here I see the difference - they have the right under the law to complement their work at another institution. He was not deprived of his right to copyright by contract and so on. I see, and I will end with this, but a significant difference between the payment of the judicial work which is a functionary and the payment and the possibility of career-building in other professions. That is why I will support this law, although the social context, is the time context so that I do not know what makes me think that I am even discussing it, because it would be the wisest either to remain silent or to strike judges, as a whole number of my fellow Members have decided on this option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u108	Mrs. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u109	Nicely greeted! In fact, there is nothing more to say, but when someone repeats a number of times what a permanent mandate is, what with the judges' assessments and so on, then the truth has to be told. And we have talked about the truth on this page many times today. Such insolvent assessments of the work of the judicial profession cause great damage. But some are also in a position to degrade other professions if they discuss the medical, any, and all the way down to the end. Of course, we have good and bad judges, working experts with no backlogs. And I would suggest that you turn that stupid name of Lucando into something smarter so that the people don't laugh. Sorry, your minister invented that name, we know how and what, but let's just leave things. It is necessary to know that the exploitation of the situation, such as in the economy, in Mura, Gorenje and elsewhere, is unethical of all of us. To think about it, to compare one employee in the Mura who gets, I don't know, 400 or 350 euros in salary and he's working and he's guilty of management and there's a lot of other people in this system, it's not about judges and some other salaries. I would like to say that what was said to be a sustainable mandate may be a wrong term because it really shows that you were once appointed and then the matter is resolved to death. It's a shame you're using these methods to convince the population, the potential viewers of this session, that the judges are untouchable and so on. I know cases when he really took a second before he lost his job, took his bag and left. He's done an extremely smart thing with it. The judge was incompetent and malpractice and so on. I would agree to tighten up, strengthen these assessments and control of the judge's work, especially those young people up to three years of age that have been reviewed each year, as well as older ones. There's a place where someone can wrap up and you're full of drawers. But out of a few thousand judges, it is necessary to say that there are so many problems, the others are working, decent, honest, and concerned that we are still a rule of law. Of course, the Constitutional Court does not determine in which class of payment. I wouldn't explain it anymore. You also know that there will still be 7 payment classes between the highest salary and the highest court, to the detriment of the judiciary. The legal profession is less paid by payment grade and so on. But you're still tense, I think four hours, things in a completely different direction. I'm glad I got this letter that the president of the judiciary wrote to the client, Zares. Of course, it is true that each judge has individually brought an action for the recognition of certain rights that are likely to belong to them. But I would only suggest to this society, as a civil society, that they agree and that they do not do stupid things in this country. A lot of people could, say, sue another euro and squeeze their teeth and wait for better times. Even after my assessment, judges should not have this option. I expect the sobriety of all those who have filed a complaint against the State to withdraw it and to settle matters and to really solve the problems in the economy, but we need money for social transfers so that people, those who have not lost their jobs on their own account, will survive, as much as is appropriate to the situation when this trend in the economy turns out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u110	Anybody else want a word? Excuse me? Check-in is on. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, we have listened to a lot of demagogies, especially the incomprehensible behaviour of the opposition, when, on the one hand, it has a full mouth of the rule of law and demands that the rule of law be respected and, on the other hand, this standing of opposition parties after preventing solutions that would finally save both the rule of law and public finances. We heard everything today. In fact, I am joining my colleague Brulci when he says that these are more debates about judges who belong to the bar than to Parliament. There are many demagog attacks at the expense of the judges, on the other hand, you have all received a copy of a letter that we sent to the Court of Justice as a group and have made clear our position on the issue of lawsuits, which, in our opinion, is at odds with the ethnic relationship that we would expect from the officials and, in particular, from the judges. The answer we have received is, however, corrected, rational, the message is that this category expects a just solution within those limits which it has indicated and very competently put forward by the Minister, and that this burden will finally be removed from the agenda. It's understandable that the opposition wants to cavate the situation. And what is happening now would lead directly to chaos and further decommissioning of the rule of law. We have witnessed ourselves in the past years of the poor functioning of the judiciary. But it was because there were no systemic solutions to ensure to the judiciary that they were treated as judges, that they were treated as a special autonomous branch of power, which has a large, huge responsibility for making the state and citizens feel safe in that country. If we left this to the opposition, as the opposition advocates, we would come to terms with the situation that this government would once again be exposed to. And this is their goal: to prevent it from being resolved without burdening the budget without burdening the social transfer of anything, but to smartly and rationally redistribute what can be redeployed to prevent lawsuits from further conflicting the situation. Instead of supporting this, they demand an open front with judges, with the Government, with the principles of the rule of law. And that's a big contradiction that we can't forgive the opposition's biggest client. In doing so, we would expect that I will not use the already abused word "state-making state" but at least rational states, ethically holding the opposition to the key interests of citizens. And this law is one of the key interests of citizens. We want to establish a framework for the rule of law, we want to reach a compromise. And this law is a compromise, because it actually saves a situation that has really been unsustainable and has, in particular, been inherited since 2002. Despite the promises made during the previous government, the issue has not been resolved. And today we are ahead of the fact. Today we have the opportunity to remedy this, of course not with the amendment proposed by the SDS, but with this law, which finally corresponds to the judges in an appropriate manner, without departing from what we have written in this letter. We believe that unethical treatment of threats, lawsuits and other such means does not fall within the category of judges. Let us have wisdom today, support this law - not your amendment, because we would destroy it and move on. Citizens and citizens of Slovenia expect this from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u112	Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! In today's debate on the amendments to the law on the public sector's salary system, it is interesting how most of the debaters focused mainly on discussing judges who strike and sue the country, even though the actions against the State have also been brought by some attorneys and what kind of state prosecutor, with the Attorney General in charge that we will not be petty, which no one in this Chamber likes. Some may understand the reasons for doing so, others may close their eyes before doing so, but we cannot all go beyond the right of judicial officials to do so. But what seems to me to be the biggest shift today is not the amount of wages that judicial officials will receive at the time of the adoption of this novel, but the fact that they have come to realize that they are also public officials, not public servants. And I hope that this demonstrated respect for and recognition of the city that is going through our constitutional order will also be done by judicial officials more wisely, more nationally or more responsibly. According to a letter from the Judicial Society, which I hope you all have received on the table now, it can be concluded that this conflict will go this way. Here is the full recognition to the Minister for Negotiating with them and to the Government that in some other way she has begun to speak with judicial officials, as has been the case so far. What worries us all is the effectiveness of this justice system. All these warnings are in place. However, the question is whether the existing ways to stimulate efficiency were correct. Some people can judge it this way, others can judge it that way. It is likely that time will only show what will change the view of the status of judges in the work of the judges themselves. It certainly seems to me that not only these three laws that are still under consideration after what we are discussing, we will also discuss Thursday the amendment of the Law on Lawyerry, which in some ways also sets a clear distinction between law and law as a mission. For judicial officials, I think this mission should be, and for that reason, I think it may also be this proposal, which will make sense in the procedure, because someone can consciously decide on this extremely good profession, to share the right. Certainly, however, the proposals, such as those made by Comrade Jerovšek, are completely depressed and all disdain, so that 40% of those judges who do not work can decide between themselves for the greater effectiveness of the judiciary, and they will no longer be judges. This is a proposal worthy of a post-war revolutionary terror or an information bureau. If there's not enough bullets in the area of a local or people's committee, we'll do them. If there's not enough intel, we'll do it. 40% of us have to find them, and they're gonna go to the Goli Island or whatever I know. This is a worrying thought worthy of a true totalitarian. I hope it was a lapsus and that it does not reveal the true nature of the proposers of this law or the party of which he is a member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u114	Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to reply to the Minister first, but the chairman said that the replica can't be replicated. I understand you've had quite a few replicas today, Your Honor, and you haven't even discussed it yet. You've got all the replicas. Interesting. That's it. I haven't been given a chance to replicate what was forbidden, but I will. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u116	That's all I want to fix you, Mr. Friend, if [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u117	I'm gonna take advantage of that now. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u118	Do you allow me to say it?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Madam Minister has discussed it. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u121	I was told she replicated. That's all. Thank you. Your Honor, I will not discuss this permanent mandate on purpose, so that it is not misunderstood. Some, however, wait until the end to tell us everything then comment on who said something and are, in fact, very smart in the discussion. When we talk about the work of judges, I don't know any names and names of a judge who would be relieved of his inadequacy. So much for how much control tools we have and how much control that is. The trial within a reasonable time was my second comment, which I was talking about, and I would also like to call the Minister now on why this is a "vip" for some. In fact, the trial within a reasonable time can only be for people who have connections and acquaintances, so I'm talking about "vip." For many, it's just a letter on paper. The laws that are inconsistent with the Constitution, and I've talked about it, should be taken care of by the National Assembly, Minister, you haven't answered me. You know, there's ten pages on the page, and I can get a copy, and I have it in my office. Minister, I also asked you about when we will have four hours of debate for those dying companies in the National Assembly, as we have today as judges. For many companies it is too late, for Mura is not yet, for Gorenje is not yet, for the Primorska Meat Industry. Nothing helps the MIP even if the Prime Minister comes from Goriski. This patient will become a dead man. Many companies are already missing this opportunity. We can no longer discuss these companies in the National Assembly because they are not: there is no Drugs, no Kolinska, no Tobacco, no many companies that have been successful. And we haven't talked about these companies in four hours. Many workers had their own piece of bread guaranteed there, and the brands are still known today in the world that came from these companies. You did not answer me about why the directors of state-owned enterprises still receive higher wages today, almost all of them, as Prime Minister or Minister. You were talking about how Minister Lakhovnik was trying to reduce these salaries by means of a government regulation. I say this again, I will reiterate that the directors are still in almost all state-owned companies, public institutions, including in the courts, judges receiving more remuneration than the Prime Minister has himself. I'm talking about Elektro, I'm talking about Telekom, I'm talking about banks, I'm talking about railways, I'm talking about Dars, I'm talking about many companies, and I'm not just talking about pay. I am also talking about the cars these gentlemen have allocated, I am talking about the payment card, about the representative, about many other benefits, from the phone onward, as well as trips that are private or semi-private, which they can afford in the state account. Why aren't we talking about this? You are saying that for one hundred and sixteen judges, you will reduce the number of judges following the natural system of fluctuation and gain the required five and several million euros because you are assessing that this is necessary to increase the salaries of judges. Aren't we going to talk about another problem tomorrow, an increase in the amount of judicial work? Today you're paying them a bonus for increased work. I listened to you before, you said those supplements were off. But can you assure me that, despite the fact that you will reduce the stock in the judicial ranks by one hundred and sixteen, you will gain five and several million dollars needed to increase wages so that you will not reintroduce the supplement to an increased amount of work. For one hundred and sixteen judges are fewer, and the work is divided into existing judges. At least we can think so logically, no. This assurance I'd like from you today. I also asked you whether it makes sense to withdraw this point from the agenda and wait for better times when Slovenia will be stronger economically and even when we have some surpluses in the budget, without having a balance, a rebalance in the budget, to patch up this budget hole from which we all collect. And it is also illogical to close down companies that fill the budget and from this budget are also salaries for judges. We find that we have an increasing number of unemployed people, fewer and fewer people working and, of course, we have an increase in costs for the salaries of the millions expressed. It's not a big amount, it's a moral thing. Look at the way some people go about their business. I'm going to throw up. The open letter of Zares, in the Zares Group in recent days, follows with amazement the information reporting of the judges on the Brief talk about how five hundred judges have filed a lawsuit and that it will cost the country 100 million euros. [[...]] They're criticizing this work. Today everyone's gonna press the button for this marriage. But this is, you know, an open letter, a letter to the public, they must be critical here. Then they point out that there should be no one of the judicial types to sue the country in such a grave manner, which is highlighted in this letter. Prosecutors shouldn't do that either, and so on and so forth. But before that, we have heard the president or the leader of the parliamentary group strongly advocate your proposal. In short, two-faced. It's a shame that we got, because it shows the depth of this political demagogy that we're driving. Dear Minister, let me tell you when we will truly have more credit for companies that want to work, and when will you do order in state companies where you have all the scissors and canvas in your hands. Nothing has to wait for 116 less employees in the judiciary. You'll get immediately, not 5 million, but 20, 30 will come, just lower your wages where you can. In the case of these gentlemen who illegally share the prizes, you have not yet called on any of them to return the prize, even though these companies did not do well in state ownership. None of these gentlemen have paid back. Not to speak from the supervisors you have placed in the supervisory capacity to control parts of state-owned enterprises, no one has responded, even though this law allows for personal property because of contested decisions that have also failed companies such as state-owned enterprises to fail. But the jury's salary has to be resolved. I understand. Of course, we will not nod to this demagogue, nor will we support this law. While we can support the amendment, I would be very happy if you would say that you are withdrawing the debate until we have at least as much revenue on the revenue side as we will on the expenditure side of the budget. But then I'll be happy to say, and now it's time to raise the judges' wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u122	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Dear Member! The credit ratings of directors in state-owned companies were proposed by the government under the responsibility of the Minister of Economy, and I fully supported his proposals. The remuneration of these directors shall not burden integral budgetary resources, as shall the salaries of judicial officials. Our concern was that the salaries of judicial officials in the 2009 and 2010 crisis years do not in any way burden the budget treasury more than it is being charged today. And that's why this proposal is before you with a clear conscience, if I may say so. All the problems that are in the economy today, when they touch someone, are affecting us in the Government, which we are obliged to respond to in this situation by increasing public finances where people need them most. This is for social benefits, for active employment policy and for other aid the system that is most needed today. Therefore, I am grateful to the judges that they have signed an agreement with the Government to consider that the Constitutional Court's decision has also been realized when we postponed the deadline for the abolition of the anti-constitutional situation in a financial sense, i.e. with regard to the burden on the integral budgetary resources, to the end of 2010. And why do I believe that even then the financial impact will be neutral? Because the Government was informed of the information provided by Minister Aleš Zalar, Minister of Justice, Ministry of Justice, even in the explanation of the proposal, is clearly stated, since 1. 1. 2009 to 20. 5. 2009 The Ministry of Justice has already retained 43 calls for judicial officials. Such a measure was decided by the competent ministry in accordance with the provision of public financial sustainability and in accordance with this objective, so if this was up to 20. 5. You will not tell me that from May 2009 to almost January 2011, this is more than a year and a half, we will not have an additional 80, even less, keep 65 of these calls and will have financial neutral consequences in full in 2011. Dear Members and Members, I have spent 60 minutes on behalf of the proposaler, not on replicas, but on explaining the circumstances, because I did not want the individual target groups in our country today in extreme social distress to hear the wrong message coming out of space. And the wrong message, which has already been intercepted by the persistent repetition of the SDS Group, is to act unreasonablely when we raise judges' salaries during the crisis, by 27%. This has happened repeatedly, as I have been able to explain in 60 minutes today, that it is not because this government is simply so socially sensitive that it would never afford it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u124	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Saivitz, here you go. You have another minute and a half to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I have to say, according to sentences and lawsuits, it's the right step to do something. To first make something possible, something confesses or, if you want, something does, and then requires responsibility. It is necessary to know that this is the first, initial step in the reform of the judiciary. The next step will be followed by the Law on Courts, which has already been introduced into the procedure and will continue the reform. What is to be achieved: simply more management in court, which means mandatory introduction of annual plans and time standards; delays and delays will be less effective, the courts will be more effective. Secondly, there will be more flexibility - someone who will be appointed as a judge will not only be for a district of justice, but for the entire judicial district, which means that the courts help each other. Today there were probably a few more readings, in my opinion too much, at the expense of young judges, trainee judges. A trainee judge is not someone in puberty who has completed his schooling but is a person with a completed law school who is 30 years of age, a judicial exam, and a lot of knowledge. They are in the most vital, productive period of life, and it is right to give them a good start, and we also require a great deal of responsibility and efficiency.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Madam Minister with colleagues, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, in this young country, since we have it, we have evaluated a number of things in 18 years. He used to be a teacher, Mr. Teacher, he was a priest, he was a mayor, he was a doctor, he was a doctor, and he was also a judge, Mr. Judge. The work of Members and Members has sometimes been valued and appreciated differently. It is true, however, that all in all areas must do their work honestly and loyally, for what they have decided. Unfortunately, to a large extent, this is no longer the case. Those who once taught us more and more 20 years ago how to have all the same apartments and watch the same TV and the same cars and so on are now among the major capitalists of the theft of social property. And it was these places of social property created by workers and workers that allowed themselves to have such ugly, unfriendly liberal legislation. In doing so, it was largely created by those who controlled both economic and legal areas. Look, colleagues and colleagues, I fully agree that the salary is for one district judge with 20 years of working age, and for a class of 50, 2100 euros. It's really not a big deal, and no one can say it's a big deal. However, I do not agree that individuals and individuals come to money both in health care and in education, wherever they are, with certain sub-contracts and with the production of some seminars and so on. They're big among the judges, too. Gromous differences. It is urgent and necessary that the judicial branch of power also have its weight. Without a judicial branch, the rule of law falls. However, we also need to be subtle enough here, and even more so when mistakes are made, not when mistakes are made, with deliberate errors, in the case of deliberate violations by such people in such situations, there is still some way to react. And for example, let's say how it didn't react exactly in these judicial and legal types, unfortunately, the school case of Judge Šubic, who didn't write a verdict in nine months that would send the destroyers of Elena to jail. They were convicted, but it wasn't written down. As a result, even Judge Šubic went to disciplinary proceedings, but John Breznik as supreme judge, president of the administrative court, was then a disciplinary judge. He was excommunicated for personal reasons. However, because he did not have a deputy, they simply did not condemn Judge Šubic for his crime. Lesson from this: Crows don't turn off their eyes. And that's a terrible mistake. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] For the prize, this Judge Šubic then even became a lawyer. In the Bar of Gorenjska [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Posede, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! At the conclusion of this lengthy debate, I would like to thank and congratulate the Minister for her insurrection and desire to communicate with arguments only what is most important at this moment, that this proposal, which is most appropriate for the State Assembly to adopt, reaches those to whom it is intended, both to the judges and, in particular, to the public. Therefore, it is all honor for 60 minutes to convince those who want to do just the opposite to report from this debate what they have been saying over and over again, what is not true. And even if you, Madam Minister, had been available for 6 hours, not 60 minutes, you would not have succeeded. It would not have worked because the desire and determination of some to show people the bad picture and, above all, what is, I can say, a little bit turned around, for what they are themselves guilty, to put on others in even worse form. But I am sure that the majority of people who follow and understand this will be able to assess that this letter, which has also been transmitted by the Group of Ambassadors, is not a duplicity, as one of the predecessors said, but points to the responsibility of both the parties, and also coalition parties, that at a given moment, it is a particularly difficult moment to find the most favourable solution. And that's definitely the one you fought so hard for today and defended it. Therefore, I can only say that we will support this proposal and that, unfortunately, your words did not fall to fertile ground because there was no good ground. Not that she was gone, they didn't want to accept her and understand her.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss this amendment again, I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the amendment will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. On the day-to-day basis, this is for the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on judicial service, after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u131	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. You have a debate ahead of you on the amendment of the law on judicial service. This is one of the three so-called judicial laws that support this wage reform, which you have discussed extensively today. This law was also infringed by the Constitutional Court by its decision adopted in December last year. Article 44 was repealed or found to be unconstitutional, so that appropriate harmonisation in this law must be carried out in any case. It is therefore necessary to adopt amendments in this respect. The Constitutional Court, as you are aware, has found that the salaries of judges are unconstitutional, that judges are underpaid. And let me point out here that the World Bank as well as some other powerful economic actors, which are particularly important in these times, warns that underpaid judges can be serious candidates to become a corrupt brigade. In any case, such risks should be avoided as far as possible. The Constitutional Court shall require correction as soon as possible within six months. And in this respect, we are actually a little late. It is true, though, that we have been hit by a financial crisis or recession that is not at all inclined to intervene in these areas. However, constitutional decisions must be respected and respected in the rule of law. The government has committed itself to them whether they like them or not. The Judicial Service Act makes some changes that support changes in the Public Sector Wage System Act. However, they may be somewhat exempt and unrelated to these harmonisations those provisions relating to the organisation of the on-call service. Here, in practice, problems have also arisen because of the non-unitary system and the organisation of the work of the on-call service, and therefore the law establishes such rules that this service will be carried out as rationally as possible. However, I would like to point out that these amendments to the Judicial Service Act and to the already mentioned Systemic Payment Act are not isolated from the other reform of the judiciary that the Government is planning and that Parliament will shortly consider. Also in the Law on Courts to be dealt with next month are some of the solutions related to these solutions brought by the Law on Judicial Service or the already mentioned law on the system of wages. In particular, these issues concern the rationalisation, management and administration of the court, the abolition of Vice-Presidents' posts, and, of course, the abolition of appropriate salary allowances to that account or the increase of criteria, the tightening of criteria for the establishment of judicial departments. Here was a considerable anomaly in Slovenian courts, in particular district courts, where a court of five judges had almost so many departments. Here are some other rationalizations. For example, the flexibility already mentioned to ensure that judges are mobile throughout the county, and the new criteria for calculating the required number of judges and so on. In short, these things are bonding. At this point, I would like to point out that the whole package of judicial legislation is primarily focused on the greater effectiveness of the courts and at the same time on the greater responsibility of the judges and, in particular, the leading judges, the Presidents of the Courts and the Heads of the Departments of the Judiciary. For this reason, the Government is proposing to the National Assembly, on these amendments to the Judicial Service Act, the adoption of these amendments, which are being amended in this amendment, because they support this comprehensive reform in the field of the judiciary. Once again, I would like to point out that, in fact, we have no other solution at this time than to carry out this pay reform until the end, given the two constitutional decisions imposing this on the Government or the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak for presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Judicial Service Act was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice at its 8th session. 9. 2009 Procedure already laid down at the College of the President of the National Assembly 2. Seven. 2009 and the procedure was shortened. The members and members of the Committee had at their disposal a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Commission of the National Council for State Arrangements, an opinion of the Council of Justice, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and a letter from the group of citizens dated 8. 9. 2009 Amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups of 3 were tabled for consideration in the home labour body. 9. 2009 The representative of the proposer, Mr Škrlec, said roughly what we had just heard from the Minister's mouth. The representative of the Katarina King Legislative and Legal Service said that they had comments on Article 11 and that they were coordinating the matter within the meaning of the amendments. The Committee also received a written opinion from the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which supports the proposal for a law. The Committee also took note of the written opinion of the Council of Justice presented at the meeting by Mrs Majda Irt. The position of the Council of Justice towards this bill is the same as the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the public sector's system of wages, since it is a substantively related law. The Council of Justice supports the proposal of the law. Mrs Janja Roblek, President of the Judicial Society, also took part in the meeting, which, pending a proposal from the law which she has told her, is a judicial society that judges support the bill as well as the law on the system of public sector wages. The members of the committee did not discuss the draft law. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 6, 11 and 12. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all articles and amendments together and adopted the proposed text of the law, which is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I give you my word again, because the positions of the groups of Members are being presented. Please, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u135	Thank you very much. This time on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Of course, this marriage is strongly and closely linked to the law that we have dealt with before, so, of course, in my position, I cannot pass through this matter as a whole. We will not support the draft law in the SDS Group of Members. At the same time, let me mention or highlight some of the reasons I mentioned earlier. Today, in this Chamber, we continue to listen to judicial officials, judicial officials, in order to mislead people, probably because simple people have the feeling that there are judges, senior judges, constitutional judges and so on. No, it's judges, we have to say this in the beginning, which are, of course, judicial officials. We have also heard from the Minister before that Minister and many Members of Parliament how we comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. As if the Constitutional Court had ordered and said, 47th pay grade. No, it's not! The Constitutional Court doesn't talk about it. The Constitutional Court has nowhere to say that there must be a 47th pay grade for the judges of the novices, nowhere did they say that. Let's move on, a permanent term. You know, you know, some of you guys just saw my show, so I'm gonna have to pay you back. Of course it's a permanent term, yes, it's another one. All that the law says or the laws say about the liability of judges, the possibility of losing a permanent term, the job and so on, I ask all those who have said so to list at least five judges who have lost this case. You can't count them. I only know one because everyone else goes to the lawyers first. Therefore, I should like to invite you to support a law Wednesday to prevent them from doing so and thus avoid any sanctions. Of course, there could be a rather wrong impression in the public that we are going to an independent court in the opposition or in the SDS party. No, never and never. The judiciary must always be independent, that is also a sacred thing for us. However, under an independent judiciary and under the words "independent judiciary", we cannot push everything that does not belong there. No one, not today and not tomorrow, even after any constitutional changes in this area can have the right to influence the decision of the judge. I'm talking about a judge's decision - a year in prison, two years in prison, five years in prison, or a prison sentence. This is the independence of the judiciary. But not into this postile, which is called an independent judiciary, to push all that goes wrong. I'm sure the wages don't belong to that. It certainly does not judge what is said to be whether the judge comes to work or not, or whether the judge may be walking on the market, or whether the judge forgets to write judgment and statutes - this is not an independent judiciary. That is why every judge in this country must be responsible, that is certainly our position. Here's another thing. A balance sheet. Yes, of course. Look, we're gonna do today's marriage, huh? The former government has made €X million available to remedy judicial backlogs, in particular Lukend, an increased volume of work, etc. Yeah. That wasn't supposed to happen until the death of a judge like that. This was foreseen for the time when the arrears were corrected. Today, we're going to force this into the basic salaries of the judges. And if we were a hypothetical case, me and you sitting across from me, if we're both judges, then it's clear, and let's say you're working today, you're a so-called flying judge, helping out in foreign courts and working at home. Yes, you certainly have the right to a substantial amount of income, and you also get it, like I do, sitting at home and going home at 3:00. We'll both be the same today. What's the result? You'll stop working. It's a clear thing. But let's say good-bye to Project Lukend, even though the minister doesn't mention him anywhere. At a time like this, don't tell me about any populism, etc. Anyone who tells me it's populism, I invite him to come with me, to the Glass New and to explain to people what their constitutional rights are, especially from the point of view of normal life, because they have nothing to eat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Tadej Slapnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister! Due to disagreement with the pay reform, judges have already sought twice the rights of the Constitutional Court, which has confirmed this to them twice. Last December 2008 In assessing the initiatives of the judges, the Constitutional Court has based itself on the fact that it is crucial for the assessment of Article 125 of the Constitution, the principle of the independence of judges, which also guarantees their material independence. Therefore, the novel before us is first and foremost in line with the Constitutional Court decision of 11. 12. 2008 For this purpose, the constitutional decision establishes the non-constitutionality of Article 44, paragraph 4, of the Judicial Service Act. In the Group of Members, we will also support the amendment because of the new regulation of the on-call service, which is carried out in the form of preparedness and on-call service outside the Court's business time. The purpose of the amended provisions is to ensure that the judicial service is carried out as rationally as possible. In the Zares Group, we reiterate the SDS party's misconduct, which in the past term denied constitutional rights to judges and thus caused only these to file a mass action against the State. In addition to the enormous financial damage, we will also witness financial incalculable damage, the consequences of the systematic destruction of the judiciary in so far as Mr Virant and the Committee manage to transform Slovenia into another republic in accordance with the ideas of his client leader. Minister Krebsova quoted the journalist as saying. "When the judiciary falls, the rule of law falls." I agree with this and add that another republic may also come when the judiciary falls. A Republic with an operationally incompetent judiciary which will not be able to provide rights in the presentation of the views of the SDS Group of Members of the above-mentioned workers and workers of Mura. In this Republic, colleagues and colleagues from the SDS, citizens and citizens will be prevented from achieving in court the correction of the injustices you have also committed by mismanagement of the country. In fact, we are opposed to your intentions, so we will support the proposed amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u138	Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u139	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and fellow Members. Our parliamentary group has already expressed its support for all proposals governing the material or wage position of the officials of the judiciary in accordance with the instructions of the Constitutional Court. This will also support the amendment of the Judicial Service Act, which eliminates the unacceptable difference in wage classes between the minimum rank of District Judge and the lowest grade of Member or Minister. We agree that it is unacceptable that the pay grade of the Supreme Court is equivalent to the pay grade of the lowest-ranking Member. Such a material situation regime is inconsistent with the principle of the division of power, which ensures and requires that, in the exercise of the organisation of power, state arrangements are put in place so-called brake and balance mechanisms. So those mechanisms that allow and require mutual control and limitation between all three branches of government. Of course, this principle of power-sharing and these mechanisms of brake and balance must also be applied in the field of regulating the material position of the holders of power, which the current payment system does not specifically allow. We therefore believe that the judiciary is also entitled to the legal regulation of its pay system, comparable to the other legislators of the legislative and executive branches of government. In this respect, we will also support the DeSUS Members' complementary proposal for a new Law on Judicial Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u141	Mr President-in-Office, Minister-in-Charge. The Constitutional Court has challenged the provisions on judicial salaries which the applicant manifests unconstitutionality to them because it does not point out the relevant relations between the pay grades of judges, Members and ministers, the assessment in terms of conformity, the principle of the division of power referred to in Article 3, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, while stressing that the requirement for the equivalence of the individual branch of government also implies a comparable payment under the status of mutually comparable officials of different branches of government. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we cannot overlook the fact that it was up to the judges to decide on their salaries and their constitutionality and unconstitutionality, whose salary is equally dependent on their decision. Is it possible to count such a decision as objective and impartial? The Constitutional Court’s assessment of the Judges’ initiatives was based on the fact that it is crucial for the assessment of Article 125 of the Constitution on the principle of the independence of judges, which also ensures their material independence. The Constitutional Court has therefore stated that the provisions of the Law on Judicial Service and the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, which prove that there is a system of judicial salaries by a decision of the National Council, a collective contract for the public sector and a regulation of the Government, and provisions of a decision on the salaries of officials which, as a sub-law, regulates the salaries of judges in non-conformity with this constitutional principle. The Constitutional Court’s legislative provisions on the evidence of a reduction in judicial salaries were also assessed in terms of compliance with the principle of the independence of judges and Article 125 of the Constitution. This Constitutional principle also gives rise to the protection of judges from the reduction of their salary during the performance of their duties. The Constitutional Court therefore considers, having regard to Article 125 of the Constitution, that it cannot be protected only by the Court’s basic salary, but also by the additions to the salary, which constitute a permanent part of the judge’s salary. However, this does not mean that Article 125 provides for the protection of individual parts of the judge’s salary as such, but that the protection of the judge’s salary as the sum of its permanent parts is guaranteed, namely, that of the judge’s salary as a whole. Clearly, therefore, the principle of the independence of the judges referred to in Article 125 of the Constitution justifies all the amendments proposed by the Judges. Of course, it would not be so if it were decided by someone other than the judges themselves. The proposal is prepared and is in principle in line with the representatives of the judges and takes into account the solution that wages, various advances of judges and additives are fixed in the maximum possible part, as this institute of regular work and increased work for judges. Thus, the actual productivity of work will be even less pronounced in court salaries, which will help to ensure that in the future those judges who have worked hard will start to work less. In doing so, the Government recalls the difficult and long-term coordination of the proposals of the law with the representatives of the judiciary officials and the fact that, in view of the progress of the coordination of the payment system, the representatives of the judiciary have broken the white sentence, which could continue if the six-month deadlines set by the Constitutional Court for the resolution of non-compliance with the Constitution were not respected, but it is not possible to forget that the judges have been carrying out the strike for ten months, but almost no one has noticed. Clearly, their productivity levels are very high. We will not support this novelty in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not support the proposed amendments to the Law on Judicial Service, which in practice constitute an increase in the salaries of judges and are the result of the proposed amendment to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages. Thus, this bill summarizes the solutions contained in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Sector Wage System Act. We believe that solutions will not improve the efficiency of the work of the courts, as the incentive factors for the work done are being introduced in the previous salary system into fixed wages. While they regulate the law more rationally and more clearly, we believe that we can and should do so without any changes to the law. In the Slovenian People's Party, we respect the constitutionally defined division of power into legislative, judicial and enforcement. We also respect all employees in the public sector who work fairly and their demands are not heard publicly. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that it is essential to regulate relations at systemic level, on the basis of a comprehensive analysis of the situation and in a dialogue between the judiciary, the executive branch and the public sector unions, and to establish a fair balance through comprehensive solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u145	Mr. Minister, presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The most important solution presented by the amendment of the law in the judicial service is the constitutionally permissible regulation of the salaries of judges, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The constitutionally permissible way of regulating the salaries of judicial officials is only in such a way as to take account of the constitutional principle of the division of power and to this end the relationship between the salaries of all three branches of government. The proposed solution also provides a comparable payment by the status of comparable officials and thus by the state prosecutors as judicial officers. The proposal, which is prepared, is in line with the representatives of the judges and takes into account the decisions that wages, except for the promotion of judges and additives, are fixed, as the Institute of Regular Labour Performance and the increased volume of work has been abolished for judges. In order to harmonise with the salaries of other officials, in line with the proposal for the amendment of the Law in the public sector wage system, the starting grades to be received by judges at the beginning of their careers have been increased, while at the same time reducing the rise of possible progress of judges. Thus, the principle of wage stability has largely replaced the principle of wage variability, which incorporates an individual’s attitude towards the resolution of court cases. Because the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service solves the constitutional embarrassment resulting from the irresponsibility of the previous law or government, and because the proposal is publicly supported, we will also support this proposal in the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kolarič is also on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Social Democrats stand for an institutional stronger judiciary. We are convinced that the previous government for the resolution of the situation and the award of judges has gone non-systematic and is so completely unattractive to the judicial profession, even for the highest functions in the judiciary. The Law on the Judicial Service, adopted in 1994, which has been amended several times to date by a solution, follows the Constitutional Court’s decision of December 2006 and the decision of December 2008 imposing on the legislator, the National Assembly, in accordance with the Constitution, to abolish it within six months of the publication of the decision. We are now trying to follow these decisions with a slight delay in the National Assembly. Thus, the Novela of the Law on Judicial Service provides for the regulation of the salaries of judges in a constitutionally permissible manner, in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The constitutionally permissible way of regulating the salaries of judicial officials is only in such a way as to take account of the constitutional principle of the division of power and thus the appropriate relationship between the salaries of all three branches of government. The proposed solution also allows for comparable payments in the status of cross-comparable officials. The new law is in line with the representatives of the judges and takes into account the decision that wages, except for the promotion of judges and additives, are fixed, as the institutes of regular work performance and the increased scope of work are performed for judges. In line with the proposal for the amendment of the Public Sector Wages Act, the starting wage classes to be received by judges at the beginning of their careers are thus increased, while the range of possible progress made by judges is reduced. Thus, the principle of wage stability has largely been replaced by the principle of wage variability, which incorporates an individual’s attitude towards the resolution of court cases. In order to ensure that the judicial service is carried out as rationally as possible, there is also a new on-call service, which is carried out in the form of preparedness and on-calls outside the court’s business time. We support and vote in favour of this law in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, as it is said, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judicial Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u148	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. We will take a decision on the draft law in accordance with the timing of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of item 2 of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE LAW ON NATIONAL RIGHTS, BY SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Aleš Zalar, Minister of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Chairman. The other in the package of judicial laws is before you, ladies and gentlemen, the novel of the Law on State Defence. This law, which was adopted for the first time in 1997, has been amended twice so far. And this time, as before, it is not a major change in the system itself, except that this law does not support the already mentioned wage reform. The key solutions to this law are that state lawyers are assigned to an appropriate starting salary class comparable to that of other judicial officials when appointed. Furthermore, in accordance with this Law and the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, the payment for regular work performance and increased work volume is abolished and these funds are transferred to the total amount of fixed salary funds, which remains unchanged. Finally, this novel deals with the issue of advances in pay grade. In this case, too, it goes hand in hand with the salaries of judges to comply with the two decisions of the Constitutional Court, which unfortunately have not been carried out so far and which claim and impose on the Government and the National Assembly the realizations. The essence of the rule of law is that politics does not ignore decisions of the Constitutional Court but does. The level of legality of each country is measured precisely to what extent the political authority is implementing those decisions of the Constitutional Court that do not fit the policy, this is the essence of democracy, the system that Winston Churchill has already designated as bad, but no one has invented better so far and I ask you and I propose that you support this amendment of the law as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the President, Mr Vinko Gorenak, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Defence was considered by the Committee at its 8th meeting. 9. 2009, on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The College, however, decided that we would deal with it following a reduced procedure. Such a decision has already been made 2. Seven. 2009 The Committee had before it a proposal for a law, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion from the Commission of the State Council on national regulation and a letter from the group of citizens and citizens. Mr Škrlec, the State Secretary, who said what we had just heard from the Minister, gave an introductory explanation to the draft law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented her written opinion and stressed that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups took account of their comments. The Commission of the Council of State, represented by Mr Bogomir Vnučec, decided to uphold the law. In the course of the course of business, we received amendments from the coalition's parliamentary groups Articles 1, 5, 7 and 8. There was no debate on the committee. In the following meeting, the members of the Committee voted on the amendments tabled by the coalition groups by Articles 1, 5, 7 and 8 and were only coalitionly supported. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal together and adopted them. This text is also an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Tadej Slapnik has the floor, on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. The salaries of the civil servants of the Republic of Slovenia must be adjusted to the salaries of the judges laid down in the Law on Judicial Service and the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages, according to a new one. It is therefore a matter of aligning the salaries of judicial officials with those of other branches of government in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. It therefore stressed on 11 December 2008 that the functioning of the judiciary is crucial for the implementation of the principles of the rule of law, as set out in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 44 of the Law on State Defence, the Ombudsman or Assistant State Advocate has the right to a basic salary corresponding to the pay grade for the function to which he is appointed. The starting salary class of the public defender shall be equal to the starting pay grade of the higher judge and the starting salary class of the assistant state attorney of the starting pay grade of the district judge. These changes eliminate unconstitutionality, so we will really support these changes in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The Law on State Defence has also been introduced into the constitutional review, along with other laws which we are considering today. The Constitutional Court has also found non-compliance with the Constitution in the provisions of this Act for the same reasons as with the judges. It is therefore necessary to respect the principle of the division of power in the sense of equal treatment of all officials, including in regulating the position of pay. The State's defence is also one of the direct activities of the State, which is one of the judicial branches of government, according to the content and function of the operation. Therefore, the Government has drawn up a proposal to align individual decisions with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, so that the state's defence attorneys are subject to similar solutions as judges. Thus, the proposal regulates the rights relating to the salary system of state defenders, as is proposed for judicial officers. In order to avoid the continued unconstitutionality of the provisions of the law and to confirm the equality of all powers, Members of the DeSUS Draft Law on State Defence will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u157	Your Honors are here! The most important objective of the novel is to adapt the salaries of officials of the State Defence Office of the Republic of Slovenia so that they are comparable at the starting point to the salaries of judges. In the light of the proposal for a new Law on the Public Sector Wage System, the State's defence attorneys are significantly higher when they are elected or appointed at the starting point. Thus, for example, under the applicable provisions of the Public Sector Wages Act, the State Advocate is classified as the starting class of the 48th Wages. According to the new classification, its final classification is foreseen for the 55th Wage Class, representing as many as 7 pay grade higher. At the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, we ask ourselves at this debate: Where will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia obtain funds for all increases in salaries of employees in the judiciary? Whether there has been a longer public debate on various austerity measures, the freezing of wage growth, even pensions, and today we are considering four amendments to laws that raise incomes and not exactly the people who live on the brink of survival. Given that the amendments to the Law on State Defence are related to the proposal to amend the Law on Judicial Service and to the proposal of the New Law on the Public Sector Salaries System and that we do not support these amendments in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, the Novel of the Law on State Defence will not receive our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we advocate the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision to be the basis for amending this law. However, the proposed amendments are linked to the amendment of the Judicial Service Act and to the amendment of the Public Sector Wage System Act. That is why this law also means raising the salaries of judicial officials, which in our view does not eliminate the disproportionateity of the constitutional decision, but rather creates a new imbalance. However, I can say that we respect the position of the judiciary as the third, equivalent branches of government, but we do not think it is the right time to raise the salaries of officials. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the adoption of this law or package of laws will result in a new wave of demands, as it did in the early 90s, to follow the requirements in other sectors as well. That's why we can't support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u161	Nicely greeted. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Defence. Why it should be accepted, of course, the competent minister and the Chairman of the Committee of the Labour Authority have said in the introductory words, so in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we agree with the proposed solution to the amendment and complementation of the Law on State Defence and will fully support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Ms Lovtišar Bebler has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u163	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Law on State Defence was adopted on 10 April 1997 and has been amended twice so far. This proposal of the Law thus constitutes a third minor amendment of the law, which does not affect its content substantially, but interferes with the wage classes of state defenders. The Novel of the Law on State Defence The National Assembly deals with three other laws in a package, with amendments to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, the Law on Judicial Service and the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. All these laws under consideration at today’s meeting of the assembly are inseparably linked to each other’s salaries as they regulate the salaries of all judicial officials. By supplementing the laws under consideration, the two decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which make sense also for other judicial officials, are not only for judges. This is also the tradition of regulating these relations in Slovenia. The amended proposal of the Law on State Defence, in accordance with the amendment of the law governing the public sector wage system, contains the following solutions: State lawyers are assigned to a higher starting salary class comparable to those of other judicial officials when appointed. For officials in the judiciary, including state defenders, the payment for regular work performance and performance in the increased work volume shall be abolished. The number of advances made by state defenders is regulated by the Public Sector Wage System Act. The solutions are coordinated with the representatives of the judiciary, so we will support them in the Group of Social Democrats and allow the Government to regulate what the former government has left unregulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Respectable. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Defence refers to the already mentioned salary reform. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the proposal to raise judicial salaries and thus the salaries of state defenders constitute a mistake because the salaries were the basis for determining the wage situation in the public sector. With the rise in court salaries, the situation in the public sector will fall, especially in the period when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is talking about saving and reducing public sector wages in the current economic situation. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the proposed rise in judicial salaries will lead to destimulatory work in the public administration at the same time as the end of the work salary. The Constitutional Court, in its decision on the constitutionality of the provisions of the law and the regulations governing the salaries of judges, state prosecutors and state lawyers, did not decide that part of the judge's salary depends on the work performance in breach of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. However, in relation to the actions brought on the Court's salary, we ask in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group concerning the State's defence why the State's defence has not lodged a complaint against a first-degree judgment which has become legally binding. In particular, the defence should do so because, according to our information, this has been warned. Was not the complaint filed because there are also state lawyers among the applicants? If so, it is known what such conduct is called. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will not support the proposed changes in the area of wage increases. We believe that the new proposal, which follows the solution that wages are fixed, which eliminates the principle of variability by abolishing the Institute of Regular Labour Performance and the increased volume of work, will lead to the plasma of requests for public sector wage exclusion, which will result in financial non-resistance in the public sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u166	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of item 2 of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the state's prosecution after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Aleš Zalar, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u167	Thank you. Your Honor! You're looking at a new law on the state's attorney's office. This law was adopted for the first time in 1994, and has been amended six times. This novel is a minor intervention in the structure of the law and is linked to this wage reform. This amendment implements two decisions of the Constitutional Court that have not yet been implemented. The government considers that the State's prosecution, as part of the judiciary, is essential, one could say that the immune system of every healthy society and the basic question is not whether this country can afford to pay the public prosecutors and other judicial officials adequately, but the basic question is whether the state can afford not to do so. In this proposal, the government follows a constitutionally consistent way of regulating the salaries of state prosecutors, comparable to that of comparable judicial officials. This amended bill establishes the prosecutor’s salary in the same way as that of the judge or assistant state prosecutor as that of the district judge. This fully implements the Constitutional Court’s decision, and also applies the principle of wage stability to state prosecutors. The removal of resources for work performance and the increased volume of work, according to the Government, is also appropriate in the light of the experience we have with this system so far, which are poor because these funds were on average shared with judicial officials in the same parts and not perhaps in their productivity. This model has not been established in practice as appropriate and it has only been an artificial increase in inadequate wages, as the Constitutional Court has found. However, it brings an important novelty to state prosecutors, when it comes to their willingness and duty regarding the specific nature of their work, this is an integral part of the exercise of their national and prosecutorial functions. The law therefore deals with the issue of preparedness as the availability of state prosecutors and only on duty when, at that time, the state prosecutor performs a state prosecutorial function in the sense of carrying out urgent procedural acts and directing the police in the pre-trial proceedings. This complemented bill ensures greater transparency over the implementation of on-calls, supervision and also responsibility for the performance of on-calls, and removes certain uncertainties as to the way in which preparedness and on-calls are evaluated. The Government considers the proposed amendments to be urgent and proposes to the National Assembly to accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Dr Vinko Gorenak, Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office has also been addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice 9. 9. 2009 at its 8th meeting. The reduced procedure has already been established at the College of the President of the National Assembly 2. Seven. 2009 Members and members of the committee had at our disposal a proposal for a law of 24. 6. 2009, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation of 8. Seven. 2009 and opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of 26. 8. 2009 Amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups of 3 were tabled for consideration in the home labour body. 9. 2009 Mr Škrlec, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, explained the reasons for the adoption of the law, but we have just heard them from the Minister. The representative of the legislative and legal service of Katarina Kralj said that the comments from their written opinion were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition. The Committee was also given a written opinion by the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which concludes that they support the proposal for a law. The representative of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, Mrs Slavica Pureber, presented the position of the Supreme State Prosecutor on the draft law and said they supported the proposal. Members and members of the committee did not discuss the law. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 3, 4, 6 and 7. The Committee also held a joint vote in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure and adopted all the articles of the law, including the amendments. Thus, the text of the law is also an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Urh has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! As the last law in the pay scheme package of judicial officials at today's hearing is the new Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. It is practically the same subject as in the previous three points, i.e. to take into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The State Prosecutor's Office is also one of the authorities involved to a large extent in the performance of the judicial function and their status should therefore be adapted to the status of other judicial officials. In this light, the text of the novel under consideration is prepared and, for reasons already presented in previous positions on this subject, which I will not repeat now, we will also support the proposal of the new Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u173	Your Honors are here! The amendment of the Public Prosecutor's Act under consideration follows the harmonisation of the provisions of the Act with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages. The proposed novel is also linked to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service. In view of the fact that the State Prosecutor's Act on the determination of the salaries of state prosecutors refers to the legal arrangements for judges' salaries and the proposed amendment also increases the salaries of the state prosecutor, we will not support the submitted novel in the Slovenian National Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office is also followed by a decision of the Constitutional Court setting a six-month period for the elimination of non-compliance. The provisions of the Judicial Service Act, which are, of course, bound by the proposal to raise wages in the Public Sector Salaries System Act, which we have stated in our opinion in the 11th paragraph, do not, in our opinion, eliminate but re-conform. In our view, prosecutors should be effective, fast and professional, and when they do so, wages may increase accordingly. However, at the present time when we are dealing with major economic problems, wage increases are not in place at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u177	Nicely greeted. The most important solution provided by the amended proposal of the law is the regulation of salaries of public prosecutors in a constitutionally permissible and comparable manner, in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The constitutionally permissible way of regulating the salaries of judicial officials is a way that respects the constitutional principle of the division of power and thus corresponds to the relationship between the salaries of all three branches of government. The proposed solutions also provide a comparable salary based on the status of comparable officials and thus the state prosecutors as judicial officers. This amended proposal of the Act also aims to align the provisions with the amended proposal for a new Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, since the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office on the determination of the salaries of public prosecutors and their advancement refers to the application of the Law on the Judicial Service with the salary of the Attorney General in relation to the amended proposal for a new Law on the Judicial Service, determined in the same way as the Court Chamber of Justice of the relevant title or position, and the payment of the Assistant Prosecutor of the State shall be determined in the same manner as the salary of the District Attorney. This will give effect to a decision of the Constitutional Court, which should be applied mutatis mutandis to the salaries of all judicial officials. The new State Prosecutor's Act also regulates preparedness and on-callness, which, according to the specific nature of the work, are an essential part of the performance of the state prosecutor's office. The proposed solution, preparedness, means the availability of a state prosecutor during the period of duty, and the state prosecutor performs a state prosecutorial function, ensures the conduct of urgent procedural acts and directs the police in the pre-law procedure. The Act's complementary proposal also provides greater transparency over the implementation of the on-call service, the maintenance of specific records, supervision and accountability. At the request of the Head of Public Prosecutions, the state's duty officer must have received prior notice from the Attorney-General and must keep a low profile on the method of evaluation of preparedness and on-call. For all hours of readiness, she prepared a supplement to the State Prosecutor in accordance with the law governing the public sector wage system. On-call hours shall be counted at working hours. If on-call hours exceed full-time hours, the state prosecutor shall be entitled to a full-time allowance, in accordance with the law governing the public sector wage system. For this reason, we will also support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office in the Slovenian Liberal Democrats' Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The word is given by Dara Lavtišar Bebler on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u179	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! At the time of the presentation of the position of the Group of Social Democrats on the amendment of the Law on State Advocates, I stressed that this is a package of related laws regulating the salaries of judicial officials and that two decisions of the Constitutional Court are being implemented. The most important solution brought by the amendment of the law is the regulation of salaries of public prosecutors in a constitutionally permissible and comparable manner, in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the constitutionally permissible way of regulating the salaries of judicial officials is only in such a way as to take account of the constitutional principle of the division of power and thus the appropriate relationship between the salaries of all three branches of government. The proposed solution also allows for comparable payments under the status of comparable officials and thus the state prosecutors. It is also a matter of aligning the provisions with the proposed amendment to the Public Sector Wage System Act. Since the State Prosecutor's Act on the determination of the salaries of state prosecutors and their advancement refers to the application of the Law in the judicial service, the State Prosecutor's Office shall be paid and, in relation to the proposal for a new Law on Judicial Service, shall be determined in the same manner as the salary of the judge of the relevant title or position and the remuneration of the Assistant State Prosecutor shall be determined in the same manner as the salary of the District Court. This will give effect to a decision of the Constitutional Court, which has to be used equally to regulate the salaries of all judicial officials. The novel also newly regulates preparedness and on-calling, which, depending on the specific nature of the work, are an essential part of the performance of the state prosecutor's office. The proposed solution, this is readiness, means the availability of a state prosecutor. During the period of duty, the Prosecutor of State shall act as Prosecutor of State, thus ensuring the conduct of urgent procedural actions and the direction of the police in the pre-trial procedure. There is greater transparency in on-call implementation, supervision and accountability, and there is also a lack of clarity on how to evaluate preparedness and on-call. Following the consideration of the novel Law on the Public Sector Wages System on the Mother Labour Body, some opposition members highlighted the problem of the underperformance of judges, and that, therefore, the opposition is the worst possible result in the proposed system of grey average, which stimulates the crime in the judiciary. It is not to be forgotten, however, that the package of legislation under consideration, which regulates the salaries of judicial officials, also regulates the salaries of state prosecutors. And with the work of the state's attorneys, we're happy. At least for criminal proceedings, it is clear that judges who have been subject to a lot of reports today are difficult to be effective when they are involved in proceedings where the charges filed are poorly substantiated or without sufficient and sound evidence. However, whatever the case, the Constitutional Court’s decision must be respected, judges, prosecutors and lawyers should be stimulated to do their job better or be sanctioned in accordance with legal provisions if they are doing their work poorly. And that's assured. We will support the new law in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The positions will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u181	Thank you so much for the introduction. I just read one of the electronic media's web pages. The first judgment in that case, as far as the judges are concerned, on the back of the lawsuits, is already legal. She's already legal. However, as regards the position of our parliamentary group on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Prosecutor's Act, our position is the same. For principle reasons, we will not undermine this law as none of the laws in this package that are bound by the Public Sector Wage System Act so far. Nevertheless, in view of the previous debate that we have just heard, it is necessary to say that in the SDS Group we somehow know how to separate work from wrongdoing and therefore see progress in the work of prosecutors and also in the work of police in recent years. That's a fact. This has been proved by the number of crimes investigated and so on. This has also been demonstrated by the figures in the state prosecutors' report for the past year. This has also been proved by the numbers that speak of the prosecution's work, the unresolved cases, the things that practically have no backlog. Unfortunately, however, this is not what could lead us to support this law, because it is necessary to vote in full, because it is necessary to have the whole as such in mind. Nevertheless, unfortunately, the coalition does not see this and wants it in any way in the prosecution organisation, where, as I say, besides the police in recent years, we have seen good progress in the prosecution of particularly organised crime, economic crime and so on. And of course we're the witness on the other side, for what? Dismantling the D.A.'s office. So this is what needs to be done politically at the moment, and this is, of course, a coalition priority at the moment. And that's not good for this country. At least tell Barbara Brezigar, we'll drop you off and goodbye. You have this right, you have this option, but there is no need to discredit and discredit all prosecutors. And as I see from the media's report, I hope that the media have misrepresented the Minister of Justice, I hope, but I do not know when they say that the Minister considers that prosecutors are not part of the judiciary and that they have some special status, and so on, as part of the executive branch of power. This law also proves that it is part of the judicial branch of power, so we also consider it as a whole. As has already been said, prosecutors need to be told that we appreciate their work, that we know the differences, and that we know how to separate work from wrongdoing. However, for the principal reasons of this law, for the well - known reasons that have been said so far, we will not support this law, either. When I was talking about disassembly of the prosecution, let me take advantage of the time available to me, and let me also say that we are obviously witnesses to the fact that, at the request of one of the Members of Parliament, we are tasked with overseeing the prosecution in Ljubljana and compare this to the supervision of the prosecution ordered in Koper by Dr. Sturm. Let me tell you again, to those of you who haven't read it, who haven't seen it or wanted to see it, Dr. Sturm did it in four hours. And this surveillance was of an administrative nature, entering personnel records. The current supervision or supervision that is supposed to be after the approval of the Government in Ljubljana is something else - an intervention in the current case of prosecutors. In fact, the prosecutors who are being dealt with at this time and, of course, have also informed the judiciary how to decide, this is an essential difference. As we say, we will not support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Vito Rožej will present his position on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u183	Thank you so much for saying that. As in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we really still do well in separating work from bad work or good work from bad work, professional work from political Flossules and so on. This is probably why the debate on the report of the Attorney General on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice was so long and hot. We are pleased when prosecutors deal with what they are paid for and what their function is, but not with everything else, which, at the end of the day, can also lead the country to the fact that other Member States of international organisations, such as the OECD, need to explain the functioning of the Attorney-General or why the justice of a country cannot cooperate well with the justice of another country. It is therefore essential that these matters in the field of justice be reviewed, monitored, and reviewed. Of course, if a person assumes what control can reveal, he will warm up to all sorts of screams, especially if he knows why it has occurred. So much for that. As far as the law is concerned, I find it difficult to make any new argument that would come across the open ears of those who are not yet sure. In short, we are putting an end to the disagreements established by the Constitutional Court. As already two before it, the law is linked to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service and the Proposal for a Amendment to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages. It regulates relationships that have not been satisfactorily regulated so far. Although they have been expressly appointed by the Constitutional Court as judges, since these provisions must be applied to all judicial officials in a meaningful and similar manner, this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office in the Zares Group will also be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u184	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since there are no amendments to the amended law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of item 2 of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. Agenda item - On the defence of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on criminal procedure, summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! You have before you the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act. The bill before you essentially brings four sets of amendments. The first set of amendments seeks to harmonise the provisions of the law with the decisions of the Constitutional Court adopted in the course of the examination of individual provisions. This amends the provisions setting out the beginning of the deadline for lodging a request for the protection of the law, since this period now binds itself to the final service of the judicial judgment to the accused or to the counsel. It also brings news about the measure of temporary withdrawal of the driver’s licence during the period of the forecasting or investigation procedure. Such withdrawal is now possible only on the proposal of the justified prosecutor and no longer on official duty. With regard to the determination of the defendant's procedural capacity, the law brings news that it is possible to psychiatricly examine and observe the accused during the trial, if the question arises whether the person in the criminal proceedings is, for psychiatric reasons, for reasons of mental health, even capable of being treated. It is therefore a matter of whether a person is relevant at the time of the trial and not only at the time of the service of the offence. The law also brings some harmony with other laws adopted. This brings terminology into line with the provisions of the new Penal Code. It also brings about a harmonisation of the penalties regime, which is in line with the provisions of the new law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The regime for granting free legal aid shall be in accordance with the regime established in the Law on free legal aid and within the Law on criminal proceedings concerning the decision to appeal against the decision on the issuance of the list. The third substance shall relate to grounds that would enable more effective action by competent authorities in detecting and prosecuting more complex forms of crime, particularly in the field of economic crime. The biggest innovation that the proposal brings is the possibility of setting up specialised investigation teams. These are groups that will be set up on a case-by-case basis in cases of more complex crimes. It shall establish them by its designation the Head of the Local Competent State Prosecutor's Office. Such a group will always be led by the State Prosecutor and, in addition to representatives, i.e. the Prosecutor, will include police representatives and representatives of other state authorities and institutions in the fields of taxes, customs, financial transactions, securities, competition protection, money laundering prevention, anti-corruption, illicit drugs and inspection. In addition to this possibility, which is now in the form of setting up investigative special groups, the Prosecutor also has greater powers by proposing amendments to direct the forecasting process to the authorities I have just listed. Although the law on criminal proceedings has in principle allowed guidance before, this possibility is now more specific and this commitment is more clearly expressed to the authorities receiving the notification or guidance. With all this, of course, the aim is to ensure that the prosecutor, as the master of the forecasting procedure, has leverage and tools in his hands so that this forecasting process can be guided as effectively as possible. Finally, the last set of changes relating to house arrest. The current regime is such that if a person violates house arrest and police officers find that a person is in breach of house arrest, in fact, there is no legal possibility to prevent such an infringement. Now this opportunity has been given to the police authorities, and the police have the opportunity to hold such a person if he is caught outside of house arrest, i.e. in violation of house arrest, by order of detention, and must bring him to the investigating judge, where he will be decided on her further fate. These are the substantive changes introduced by the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak for presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u187	Thank you very much this time. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice also considered this law at its 8th meeting. 8. 2009 The procedure laid down by the College of the President of the National Assembly on 5 June 2009 was reduced at its 26th meeting. The Committee was informed, i.e., of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Arrangements. He had a law at his disposal, had an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and a letter from the Council of Justice. Mr Škrlec, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, who is with us, said in a supplementary explanation that he had presented in three sets the substance of the changes. We have also just heard this from the State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. Ms Špela Maček Gustin, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, said in her presentation of a written opinion, that some of their comments were duly taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups. It reiterated that further clarification should be given to the proposed amendment to Article 137 of the CAP with regard to the powers of enforcement of the decision to withdraw the driving licence issued by the court and that certain terms in the new Articles 219a and 223a of the CAP should be properly understood. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, it is possible for the State Prosecutor to direct the work of other State authorities, the institutions of the legal system, since the State authorities, which are independent in their work, will be bound by the mandatory instructions of another State authority. The representative of the Public Prosecutors' Society, Mr Hinko Jenull, expressed support for the bill. In the debate on Article 3, opposition Members cautioned that the main culprit for failure to detect and prosecute organised and economic crime is particularly ineffective courts and not a prosecutorial organisation that does not deliver judgments within a reasonable time frame. They considered that the proposed specialised investigation teams should be given more weight and therefore proposed to be ordered by the Attorney General. The coalition Members supported the bill in the proposed text and amendments. The Committee then adopted the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 2 and Article 3. However, he did not accept the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. The Committee voted on and adopted all articles and amendments in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In view of this, the draft law, the basic text and the amendments adopted, is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Silven Majhenič has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u189	The amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act under consideration follows compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the Criminal Code, the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions Act, the Free Legal Assistance Act and within the Criminal Procedure Act provides a legal basis for the more effective functioning of the competent authorities. Under the proposal of the law, a request for the protection of legality may therefore be lodged within three months or eight days of the final service of the judicial decision to the accused or to the counsel. It is specified that the measure of temporary withdrawal of a driver's licence in criminal proceedings may be ordered only on the proposal of the duly justified prosecutor. The defendant may lodge an objection against the decision of the court concerning the determination of this measure within three days. Both parties have the right to lodge an appeal against the court’s decision to object. The proposal provides that a psychiatric examination of the accused and observation at the appropriate medical institution may also be ordered if there is a serious doubt that the accused cannot participate in criminal proceedings because of his mental condition. The protection of communication and electronic privacy shall be regulated. A supplement is proposed to enable the state prosecutor to establish so-called specialised investigation teams in which, in addition to the head of the group that is in line with the proposal, the state prosecutor, the police representatives involved and, in view of the circumstances of the particular case, the representatives of other state authorities and institutions from tax, customs, financial transactions, securities, type of competition, prevention of money laundering, prevention of corruption, illicit drugs and inspection, as appropriate. With regard to the measure of house arrest, the police will be able to bring the accused into the appropriate records under the Police Act and to take him out of custody without permission from the court outside the place provided for in the decision to order the measure and bring him to the investigating judge. In view of these substantial changes to the law, we will support the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The position will be presented by Guido Kres, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u191	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable representative of the Government, distinguished colleague and colleague. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act does not make systematic changes in the field of criminal procedure, but is only about compliance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and to comply with the Penal Code, the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, the Law on free legal assistance and harmonisation within the law itself. Of course, we support compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court and other laws, since the legislation must be clear and consistent. In the Slovenian People's Party Group we support stricter conditions for intervention in the so-called electronic communications privacy, relating to the investigation of data stored in telephones, computers, faxes, memory cards and optical media. Article 37 of the Constitution provides for the protection of the individual’s interest that, without his or her consent or without a court order, no one shall be familiar with the circumstances and content of the communication transmitted through any means enabling the exchange of information. The only thing that may be problematic here and which has also been pointed out at the meeting of the parent committee is the failure to resolve the transitional period. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group of Ambassadors of the Republic of Slovenia also support the possibility of establishing specialised investigation teams, including police representatives and representatives of other state authorities and institutions in the field of taxes, customs, financial transactions, securities, competition protection, money laundering prevention, corruption and the like. We hope that such strengthened teams will be much more successful or effective in detecting and prosecuting crime in the pre-commanding process. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we even believe that it has been a time for such organisation in the fight against economic crime and other types of organised crime and corruption. Persecution of perpetrators of such acts clearly requires multidisciplinary knowledge from various fields and the coordinated cooperation of representatives of several national authorities or institutions. Given that our police and the prosecution obviously do not have experts in so many different fields, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we support the option of specialised investigative groups and sincerely hope that they will not remain on paper alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u192	Thank you very much. The position will be presented by Milan Gumzar, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u193	Nicely greeted. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act because the main purpose of the amendment is to bring the Criminal Procedure Act into line with the Constitution. In several decisions, the Constitutional Court found that the Criminal Procedure Act was inconsistent with the Constitution. For example, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has decided that the temporary withdrawal of a driver's licence under an official obligation is not in accordance with the Constitution, as this can be done on the proposal of the justified prosecutor. This is just one example of non-compliance with the Constitution, which is regulated by the proposed amendment. Furthermore, the proposal provides legal basis for the more effective functioning of competent authorities in detecting and prosecuting more complex crimes, particularly in the areas of economic crime, organised crime and corruption. It is possible to set up specialised investigation teams in which, in addition to the State Prosecutor, police representatives will be involved and in the circumstances of a particular case, where appropriate, representatives of other state authorities and institutions in the field of taxes, customs, financial transactions, securities, competition protection, money laundering prevention, anti-corruption, illicit drugs and inspection. Since we believe in the rule of law and the fight against crime and corruption in the Liberal Democratic Club of Slovenia, we will also support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The position will be presented by Miran Potrč, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act. The proposed amendments are mainly linked to compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court and constitute a clearer regulation of certain issues which could otherwise cause confusion in the proceedings and thus the possibility of a less effective procedure and the unclear rights of the parties. In order to prevent such opportunities, it is prudent to adopt the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, which are in the text, as agreed on by the home labour body, also in line with the proposals of the Legislative and Legal Service. The proposed law thus deals in more detail and more unequivocally with the following essential issues. It provides that the provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure applicable to non-legislative communities shall also apply to same-sex partnerships. It lays down the conditions and cases under which the accused may be deprived of his driving licence for a period of time during which he or she is subject to criminal proceedings; who is the proposer of the temporary withdrawal; when the withdrawal decision may be altered during the proceedings and the enforcement of the provisional confiscation measure is subject to the provisions of the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. The powers conferred by the State Prosecutor for the direction and coordination of other state bodies are being extended and further specified, especially in the case of complex economic, corruption and organised crime offences, in order to ensure greater effectiveness of the pre-trial procedure and to ensure the prevention and successful prosecution and punishment of such serious criminal offences. There is a greater effectiveness in the implementation of house arrest and more effective action against an accused who does not respect the conditions and obligations on this basis. More precisely, when and under what conditions an investigation can be carried out of electronic and related devices and electronic data carriers, which is of great importance for the protection of personal data and privacy, while also for the effective conduct of criminal proceedings. More precisely, the conditions and the cases where, including during the course of the procedure, the accused may be subjected to psychiatric examination and the consequences thereof. Finally, in order to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court, it is provided that the deadlines for the submission of extraordinary legal remedies are to be considered from the final service of the conviction to the accused or to his counsel not only from the day of service to the accused. We will support the proposed changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u196	Thank you very much. The position will be presented by the Magi. Branko Grims, on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u197	Your Honor! Good-bye to all of you! In the SDS, we support those solutions in this law that are aimed at greater protection of human rights, in particular privacy, and are based on the Constitutional Court's judgment. These solutions, according to our assessment, are well-directed, but the law as a whole is full of some shortcomings and inconsistencies. In particular, it is obvious that in the drafting of this law there was not so much a professional moment at the forefront, not so much an interest in a more effective execution of the criminal procedure, but in particular what was left to lead the existing coalitions or government, which is "piar". In fact, the essence of all interventions in the field of justice and of all bodies involved in the proceedings, which are then concluded in practice in court, has been enshrined in the Law on Courts. A new development paradigm, as well as a strong anti-development approach, is being developed there, which in practice reduces the efficiency of courts and introduces a balance sheet, which means less exercise of constitutional rights for citizens and citizens. In order to hide this in some way from the public, it is obvious that some vague provisions have been written here, in particular with regard to the introduction of specific groups, as well as some other solutions which have already been rejected by part of the profession, because in practice they can mean nothing or anything special and bring only some additional costs, but even after the warnings of individual responsible people from the profession themselves who are supposed to carry it out, may bring about an additional confusion and less effective implementation of the Criminal Procedure Act. For this reason, we have also proposed an appropriate amendment in the SDS, in which we are trying everything, in accordance with the words and principles enshrined in the bill by the proposer, i.e. the Government, to form into a meaningful whole so that in practice this would work more effectively than what is now enshrined in the law. For what is now enshrined in the law and even presented as a Slovenian FBI, of course with some FBI in the American sense, has absolutely nothing to do with it, it is only the possibility of setting up special groups that would be at a lower level, so coordination could be lacking due to the multiple steps that would appear in this process. The question is then also the effectiveness of such a procedure and supervision in practice. For this reason, as it is said, we are also offering a solution to the SDS with an appropriate amendment, and our final decision on the law itself will depend on the vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Vito Rožej will present his position on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u199	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, in the Group of Members, we have only created the following opinion on amendments and amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act on the basis of rational options, without any visionary abilities that the representative of the previous opinion overcomes. We can short-circuit it into three sets. The first are compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, some of which have already been mentioned. Here we find it particularly worth mentioning the time limit for a request for the protection of legality, which is now provided for in such a way as to take account of the final service of the judicial judgment or decision to the accused or to the counsel. It is also a matter of determining the procedural capacity of the perpetrator at the time of the trial. So far, the legislation has regulated only the mental state of the offender during the time of the crime, but not during the trial. Regarding the categories of mental disorders and diseases, terminology is now in line with the existing criminal code. The latest set of changes concerns the better effectiveness of authorities in detection and later prosecution of criminal offences, organised crime and economic crime and corruption. Therefore, it is possible to set up specialised investigative commissions. In addition, more effective supervision of the implementation of house arrest is being introduced. As for the amendment, which has been submitted, it is interesting why a prosecutor would be more successful in this, and another would be less successful. We hope, of course, that the effectiveness of prosecutors is not measured according to their client's definition, but rather by the number of cases successfully brought to an end. For all of this we will truly support the changes in the law in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Anton Urh will present his position on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u201	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act. Greater legal certainty, the principle of equality before the law and the effectiveness of the trial are the main reasons for accession to the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act. In the first place, amendments are made to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, as they have established constitutional non-compliance with several provisions of the law, namely the time limit for lodging a request for protection of legality against the decision to impose or extend detention, as regards the possibility of withdrawal of a driving licence, without the latter being proposed by the justified prosecutor. Furthermore, regarding the irregularity of the question of the defendant's procedural capacity in criminal proceedings and the protection of privacy communication regarding the acquisition of unanswered calls and the content of SMS messages. All these discrepancies have been duly remedied in the proposed law, as assessed by the DeSUS Group. Therefore, we do not have any comments on the amended proposal for a law in this part and we support it as a majority of Members. Amendments to the law relating to the detection of more difficult forms of crime in the field of economic crime, organised crime and corruption, as shown by the debate on the labour market, will not receive such high support. In graves, it is a change that concerns the competence to establish specialised investigation teams. According to our assessment, the government proposal makes more sense, setting out the competence to set up such a specific group in a specific case for the state prosecutor. While the opposition party, which has also tabled an amendment to this provision, assesses that it would be more centralised to appoint such groups by the Attorney General. In our Group of Members, we believe that the government proposal is more appropriate as it will provide greater flexibility in the formation of a specialised investigation team. This certainly helped to make the latter more effective. However, the idea of centralised decision-making is still reserved for the Attorney-General, in cases of joint investigative committees whose content includes international elements. These are the reasons why Members of the DeSUS Group will contribute to the adoption of the novel under consideration. The amendment tabled, which concerns who will form a specialised investigative committee, will not be supported by our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u202	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u203	Thank you for your word. As I have already said in the introduction, the essence of this amendment is the desire to allow for greater coordination and thus greater efficiency in the implementation of the procedure. As a paradox in the face of highly bloated predictions, and thus, of course, excessive expectations raised by the coalition through the media in the process of creating this law, to establish some new FBI, let me say that in fact our way is much closer to the FBI's arrangement in the United States. What's this all about? You need to know what the FBI really is, it's the Federal Bureau of Investigation and it's a highly centralized institution, because, of course, it's not its intention to be such in itself, to implement some specific policy or at least anyone in the interest, because some of you have unfortunately already mentioned in the introduction and thus proved that you're not even able to think outside your own framework - ours. It's not really about that at all, it's about who and how they can perform the procedure optimally. I would like to point out that, in the present case, these are specific groups which would have been set up for a specific purpose. Slovenia, we know, is much smaller than the United States, so it is even more logical to try to lead all the services here as coordinated as possible in the process itself so that, of course, the extraction from this optimal and efficiency is, of course, the greatest. It's supposed to be everyone's desire. To this end, we have proposed an arrangement for which we also have a basis in the positions of the profession that has warned that the current, government, solution can in some cases also mean diluting the procedure, not only a poorer coordination, but also that the way in which this procedure is conducted will not ultimately reach the student who would have been allowed to have it so far without such an additional solution being introduced into the law at all. That is to say, if we count or come from these warnings of the profession, then even the current solution is better, existing, I say, in the law currently in force, than the one proposed by the Government. Our proposal, however, is the only one that is actually going towards bringing this closer to what you, alone in the initial campaign before the adoption of this law or the draft law, have informed the Slovenian public that it is a central, important institution that will enable a more efficient procedure. If your words are consistent with your actions, you will surely support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u204	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State made a statement. Mr. Boštjan Škerlec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u205	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I think there are some circumstances that need to be clarified, because I think there is some misunderstanding of what is actually the content of these specialised groups. It's not about the Slovenian FBI. The Slovenian FBI, if I'm using this human comparison, is a word that's been taken for what's set up the Ministry of the Interior and what's called the Central Investigation Office. This is an institution established by the Ministry of the Interior and, of course, has nothing to do with what is on the table today. You have before you a proposal that will also provide a formal basis for what is happening today. In fact, when investigators, I mean the police, the prosecution, as well as other investigators, such as customs or tax authorities, are faced with some complex crime of economic crime, perhaps the tax wheelers, then of course the prosecutor's knowledge, which is a legal one, is not sufficient to investigate this crime. The expertise of the police is also often insufficient, as it is specific areas, financial regulations, tax regulations, the search for loopholes in tax rules by the perpetrators and so on. And that's why the D.A. is in practice the one who picks up the phone and calls, calls Customs, calls Durs, and contacts the authorities working in the areas he's facing in the investigation of this crime. These people sit at the table, look at what is the problem, what is the issue of clarifying the elements of the crime, and it is appropriate to distribute tasks and collect the necessary information. This is already taking place in practice and where the will and desire of all those who are to be included in such a process is usually not missing. However, the problem is that all authorities are obliged to exercise their original powers. And sometimes there is no real motivation, and more than once is not the time to focus on helping other authorities, in this case the police and the prosecution. As a result, a proposal has emerged from practice to establish or provide a legal basis which will allow the Attorney General to undertake, by order, that staff in other bodies should be more actively assisted in the investigation. They help to carry out what they are otherwise competent to carry out within their bodies. It is only about establishing such a group by order now and knowing who the members of this group are. In order to adapt and reduce other current obligations in their parent organisations. And in this way, in public, to say politically that it is necessary for other authorities to cooperate in such difficult matters. This commitment and the obligation of mutual assistance and cooperation in criminal matters is not new. Article 142 of the Criminal Procedure Act already requires State authorities to provide assistance in criminal proceedings. It is essentially about clarifying this commitment in order to achieve greater efficiency in practice. The proposal that the Head of the Public Prosecutor's Office decide to set up such a group is, in fact, an expert proposal, a proposal from the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. For this is usually the case in the District State Prosecutor's Office and the leader as the person responsible for the implementation of the penal policy or law enforcement policy in this district, it is the one who then has the tool in his hands to order - and it was also the prosecution's suggestion that it should not be an agreement, but that the prosecutor has the power to order such cooperation - in fact to ensure such cooperation. In this way, it connects all these bodies which face issues that are the subject of criminal investigation and thus achieves greater quality in the investigation. This is the purpose, and I think that the proposal, as is currently on the table, by the coalition and presented by the Government, has also sufficiently achieved this purpose. If we followed the proposal now tabled by the opposition in the form of an amendment to move the establishment of this section to a level higher, to the head of the prosecution group for the prosecution of specific forms of crime or to the Attorney General, we would lose contact with the operation that was our wish when this institution was enacted. Let me say again that the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, in its proposal, followed that the head of the District Attorney's Office should be the one who would have the power to establish such a group. The Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office has advocated that the establishment of such groups would be as flexible and flexible as possible and that formalisation would not be an obstacle to the establishment of such groups. They tried to follow this to the best of their ability, so I think that the proposal offered by the Government is an appropriate solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u206	Replica, mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u207	Just one sentence. The use of concepts has not been defined here, but I have come from things that have been published, either made public by the coalition and expressed in a preliminary procedure, is said to be a preliminary consideration at a meeting of the committee. And there you know the terms of the operation, and that's why I've explained what a word means. The key question in this regard is the question of who sets things up, who executes them, then direct control and who coordinates them from this point of view. And the question of efficiency is probably right here on the palm of your hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, I don't think that the conflict between the coalition and the opposition is so great that we can't reconcile this matter, so I'm going to try to convince you. See what the coalition proposes or what it proposes to the original text you have presented. He's talking about crimes of corruption, organised crime and so on. We are united here. Next. Your proposal speaks of the fact that the Head of State Prosecutor's Office, either on his own initiative or on the initiative of the police, can establish such an investigation group. But the next thing I know, there's a whole bunch of contradictions. See, the members of the group, on your proposal, are appointed representatives of the institutions. Who does that mean? Police, customs, tax administration, there could be someone else. But below, your text says: "About the establishment, composition and tasks and the functioning of such a group shall be decided by the Head of the Prosecutor's Office.", which is a little contradictory. Why? Because there will be a conflict. The chief of police, customs, taxation, if you want, will propose a person, but the prosecutor will be able to say no, but we would say no, and we would say someone else. There will be a conflict here, in my opinion. And there is one thing, at least I understand your text so much, that the leader can actually be anyone, even a police officer. I wouldn't do that, so I understand the text, and I think the chief should be the prosecutor. In fact, it says in the order: the appointed leader is not self-evident, you know it will be a real prosecutor. I'd specify it in any case that it's the D.A.'s office, because it's right that he's the D.A.'s attorney. The current text, however, states that a leader shall be appointed in the order. So, I understand that this could be some kind of police leader. What do we suggest? We propose that this is the Attorney General or the Chief Prosecutor for the Prosecution of Organised Crime. But it's for the same content - for organised crime. So, on your initiative, the initiatives of the police can be set up, clearly, in our proposal, we are talking about the fact that the group is led by the prosecutor, which is not explicitly clear in your proposal. I think we should fix this. Specific procedures determine, I also think that with one such article it is almost impossible, and you or we write it, very precisely define all the procedures that will follow. The case is different, so even our amendment opens the door for you in this direction, so that you can also, of course, adopt a sub-legislative act and very precisely define these procedures. I think it is yours and our desire that such groups are successful, and therefore I am sure that this amendment is a better solution and if you think it is not just the Attorney General or the Prosecutors for the prosecution of organised crime, that it is necessary to let go less. After all, you can also correct our amendment if you think it is better, perhaps in this direction, even though I do not see such a need. However, I think it is particularly important that it is explicitly clear in our amendment that this group is led by the Prosecutor, which is not explicitly clear in your text and that you have a very open door so that these procedures can be very, very clearly regulated in a sub-legislative act, and I think this is good for everyone, so I suggest you carefully examine the amendment and listen to me as much as I have seen and if you want to correct this amendment, but I think it is to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Škerlc, State Secretary, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u211	Thank you very much for these points, actually. I agree with the fact that this group is being led by the State Prosecutor, and this is also clear in our text. That's what the third paragraph says. The third paragraph provides that the specialised investigation team shall be led and directed by the competent State prosecutor and appointed by the chairpersons of the authorities and institutions referred to in the preceding paragraph. So, this is where we agree. The fact that the leader orders the establishment of such a group, that the members appoint the heads of bodies, also seems to us to be a good solution, that is, cooperation. Cooperation is bad if it's commanded. We are assuming that, in principle, there remains the will and desire of the State authorities to cooperate in such very important investigations and this provision, which will formalise such cooperation, is merely to examine what must exist between entities, at least in principle. Of course, it is not acceptable and is not in line with the spirit of cooperation if the prosecutor arbitrarily decides who will be a member of this committee, despite the wishes of the heads of the authorities, because it will then be questionable whether this cooperation will be truly fruitful. For this reason, it seems to us that the arrangement is the same as it is now that the Presidents first give the names of these members, of course the Prosecutor can talk about it and propose something else, and that is not impossible, and the fact is that in the end the composition of these groups must be such that it is pleasing, if I may use that word, to all those involved. For this is the only way in which the group can truly function and there will be a common spirit among members, that matters must be explored and quality work done. For this reason, I think the existing text offered by the Government is clear enough. As far as the proposal for an amendment mentioning the possibility of issuing a sub-legislative act is concerned, that is true, this option is specifically mentioned in the amendment, but this option also exists in the text proposed by the Government. In view of the transitional provisions, Article 13 provides that within six months of the adoption of this Act, a regulation on cooperation between the police and the prosecution in the detection and prosecution of criminal offences shall be amended. So I think the problems you have rightly pointed out are adequately covered and defined in the proposal offered by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Because you wanted to discuss it again, please apply. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u213	Thank you. I don't think we're that far away from looking for common ground. Look at the one where I do not see the answer in your text, in this part, our reliable improvement is the question of the dead course that may arise in the formation of such a group. If an example is found and the laws must be written in such a way as to remove any possible errors or shortcomings in advance, if they are only detected and, in the case at hand, one is obvious. In fact, your work may result in a dead race from a persistent suggestion by someone who makes a final decision while the one who makes the appointment permanently rejects it, even to the formation of a group or to its full appointment in practice. This is, of course, the first time - a bad signal and the second time - an extremely non-operable solution. While the solution that we are proposing cannot, of course, come to such a solution, because the one who appoints also makes a full choice and chooses his associates, which is also logical in such a group, which must in some way be unitedly guided. It is normal, then, for someone who leads a group to have the right, or to name it, and later to direct it, to control the choice of associates with whom the task can be most easily performed. This way of working will certainly be the most successful.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I find that no one wants to discuss it anymore, so I am concluding the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the amendment will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on higher education, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I take it the government's representatives are not yet present at the hall. Apparently some ministers and some ministers have problems during the mobility week, so I decided, as an act of special exception, to order a 10-minute recess, although I should not have had to. And if they don't break up after 10 minutes, we'll continue without government representatives. So, we move on at 5:12. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u215	Dear fellow Members and Members! We shall proceed with the adjournment of the sitting and the end of the second item of the agenda. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Please. Gregor Golobič, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u216	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to begin by apologizing for a shorter delay. In fact, in this week of mobility, the National Assembly is working faster than predicted and Minister Žekš and I hosted research institutes at the SAZU, Slovenian research institutes from abroad, and faster than I could at that time. During the entire drafting of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education and during its parliamentary hearing, I have pointed out several times that this is one of this year's key legislative projects of the Government in this area. It responds to the long-term expectations and demands of higher education partners and other stakeholders. I believe, in this sense, that everyone already knows and understands the changed circumstances of modern society, which, in relation to higher education, bring new expectations. A number of them have also been set up by the current global economic crisis. Together with the other countries of Europe, we have also decided in Slovenia that the solution and development potential is the creation and consolidation of a knowledge society, which includes higher education and higher education institutions. The basis, or rather, is quality. Quality is a requirement that is comprehensible in itself. The central role is played both in the Bologna process and in several European Parliament recommendations on higher education and other documents. The primary responsibility for quality lies certainly with higher education institutions themselves, who must be aware that they fulfil an important mission important for social development as a whole. The external quality assurance system, however, is concerned about the context of the fulfilment of certain quality criteria and, above all, about the improvement of quality criteria. What such an external system is supposed to be, is clearly set out in the European guidelines and quality standards applicable to the basic document in the area under consideration. The fulfilment of these criteria, standards and guidelines leads to credible higher education and contributes to a range of other, our and European objectives: increasing the attractiveness of higher education, increasing mobility of students and staff, working with foreign higher education institutions and so on. In the Slovenian space, the external quality assurance system is currently being cared for by the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education, which, as is known, faces a number of difficulties in its operation and in fulfilling ambitious tasks, and many also note that it cannot, as is known, meet all the great and challenging expectations. With this in mind, we have taken steps to prepare the present bill because it is impossible to understand the creation of higher education policy and higher education beyond the partnership dialogue, outside the intention of involving all higher education and other social stakeholders in this process. In accordance with the Bergen Communication and similar documents, we have invited all of us in a series of ways to cooperate, to form an expert council. The bill received the high support of this professional council body on the one hand, as well as of all higher education stakeholders on the other. A few different views have developed recently mainly on the issue of the composition of the Agency's Council. This topic was also the subject of the largest discussion on the working body, the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development of the National Assembly, where an amendment was voted to increase the number of members of the Agency's world. Otherwise, some comments were made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, some well-founded nomo technical comments which were taken into account in the other proceedings. The bill also obtained the so-called consent of the Commission for Culture, Science, Education and Sport of the National Assembly. We estimate that the importance of the proposed law is exceptional for Slovenian higher education and provides a good framework for a new agency. She'll be independent, professional and independent. The bill creates such conditions, conditions for transparent operation and for the quality of the agency itself, will enable an improvement in the quality of Slovenian higher education [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] in the European Higher Education Area. [[...]] We propose that the National Assembly adopt the amendment of the law so as to enable the necessary establishment of a national agency for quality in higher education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. Branku Grims for presentation of the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u218	Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! At its 5th meeting, on 3 September 2009, the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act as a working body. In order to be able to carry out the debate correctly, a very large number of different opinions, views and additional proposals have been submitted to the Committee, both by some universities, universities, trade unions and student organisations. Likewise today, the relevant comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which drew attention to the many shortcomings of this law and to some obvious contradictions in an extremely extensive report. Accordingly, the task of the Committee has been even more difficult and responsible, even in the light of some other opinions that are to be mentioned at this time. For example, the representative of the State Council, Dr. Jože Mencinger, said that their commission supported the bill, and I quote: "...though they do not believe it will contribute significantly to quality, it will prevent the establishment of many new universities." This must certainly be taken into account in the examination. On the basis of these views, some amendments, several amendments, have been adopted on the Committee itself. Most of the debate, as previously presented, in the amendment on the composition of a future key body, is the composition of a world agency that is supposed to care later for the quality of higher education by increasing its inclusiveness. In fact, the SD's proposal was to give an additional place to the students and raise their numbers from 2 to 3 and to increase for an additional post also with a union representative. Together with the opposition's votes, this amendment was then adopted, despite the Minister's opposition and was later subject to a broad debate. Together with all the changes, at the end of the election of the opposition, the ruling coalition supported the amended law and is being submitted for consideration today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Since the 7th meeting held the first reading of the draft law on the presentation of the views of the groups of Members is not possible. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2009 I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Alexander Zorn has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted. In the SDS Group of the proposed amendment, we will not support the Government, and everything about this unfortunate law is so complicated and confusing that it is completely unprofessional at the same time. Let's go in one order. Although the minister has just said that this is a key legislative project by the Government this year, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has criticised the Government's proposal so much that we can read it completely with amateurism. It wasn't a few comments, it was a complete criticism. Another time. The Committee on Higher Education, due to its embarrassment with the poorly written law, presented such a large number of amendments, the most contributed by the coalition itself, to make it all look like a bum's sleeping shirt made up of patches. This law consists of an "amateur" draft and amendments themselves. And to make the embarrassment even worse, the amendment now adopted by the Government, the real coalition, has been lifted and returned to its original form. It is said that the coalition has proposed an amendment to the committee, which is now rejected by the Government, which is also a coalition. The mix is perfect, and all about this is the only amateur action of what should be "exact". After all, it is the Higher Education Act. And if we think about what this Higher Education Act brings. The most direct effect of the law is the liquidation of the independent Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education so that it remains only a symbolic consultative body and all its competences in the field of accreditation and evaluation will be transferred to the new National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Quality in Higher Education. Sounds great. We'll get quality. But we don't know if it's a lie or just a mistake. However, the current situation from which the need for the adoption of a law would arise is fully distorted in the proposed material. Contrary to what has been written, the current Higher Education Council is acting in accordance with European quality assurance standards. Above all, he achieved a high level of independence in his decision-making, both from the Government and from the universities. This independence of the present Council has also been established by the Constitutional Court. We believe that this independence is a matter of some interference and is the real reason for the dissatisfaction with the Council on which the reasons for the proposed law is based. Compliance with the functioning of the current Higher Education Council with European standards is confirmed by the fact that it has just been admitted to the ECA European Consortium for Accreditation in Higher Education, and there are also no specific barriers to inclusion in the ENQA European Union for Quality Assurance. Therefore, the claim that the new agency is supposed to be more in line with European standards and customs than the previous Higher Education Council has already been denied by the applicant in the description of the situation. In these countries, unfortunately, only four have been found at the Ministry, we find bodies that are very similar to the current Slovenian Higher Education Council, but we do not find anything that would really be proposed to the Agency by design and operation. Instead of sincerely striving for quality, it is obvious that higher education is being treated as a booty, that this term will be quite well-settled, but it is appropriate that the Minister thus wants to get rid of the current composition of the Higher Education Council, which I think is obvious because he does not control it and create his own agitation. as a new organ that will be more loyal to him. He does not want to leave anything to chance, although the Council for Higher Education, on the basis of the new proposal, would retain only a consultative role, should also be fully faithful to the Minister in this role. The proposed law also contains a provision that early ends the mandates of all members of the Council so that the minister can replace them with people of his own taste next year. And go ahead. The Minister's proposal is not only non-European within the Agency. The Minister of Foreign Knowledge obviously doesn't understand as a good thing, but as something to protect people from. Respectable foreign universities and colleges, after this proposal, could carry out their school programmes with us, study programmes only if they had previously concluded a specific contract with which of the accredited Slovenian higher education institutions. It's like someone should check and maybe even filter out knowledge coming from an international space. Above all, talking about quality about this law is clearly more of a cover. What the Minister for Higher Education presents himself under quality is evident from the provision under which independent higher education institutions would now award their own habilitation titles. To date, this required the consent of the Higher Education Council, which has rejected a number of applications for non-compliance with the criteria and thus protected the relevant standards. Therefore, the SDS Group considers that the proposed law as anti-smoking, anti-European and even against true quality is inappropriate for further consideration and that it is totally rejected as such, and the law with this amendment is worth the sad story of handling the Slovenian university in a completely unprofessional way and with complete non-professional purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u221	Dear colleague Zorn, you have probably heard my warning that the 7th meeting of the Assembly had its first reading of the bill and therefore it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members, nor is it possible to repeat them at today's meeting. I would therefore like to draw the attention of all further debaters to focusing on the amendment prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 15 of the Act. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar is next. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u222	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Secretary. Of course, as the chairman of the home committee said, the debate on the parent committee was slightly different to this amendment, to Article 15, but there is no reason why, after this discussion, the DeSUS Group would not have relied on further explanations for this amendment, which once again puts this amendment into its original content. In doing so, the Parliamentary Group considers that the involvement of all higher education partners is ensured in this number 11 as well, and that this academic and non-academic sphere is also included, that it is achieved by this, including 11 numbers, by trade unions, including students, so that we are of the opinion that the adoption of this amendment is also possible and is acceptable to us, because it is, last but not least, the Council of the Agency, which is a fully professional and independent body and does not have any or no institution that approves or forms this Council, has no impact on the decision-making of the Council of the Agency. On the basis of all of this, the DeSUS Group is convinced that the amendment has been put in place and is acceptable to the DeSUS Group, so we will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. This amendment will certainly not be supported by anyone who is involved in social dialogue and in Slovenian science, university and the integrity of academic space. For this amendment, as proposed by the Government now, eliminates in fact the only small point of light in a very, very poor and strong "shampast" prepared law. Let me explain why I'm saying this, because probably most of those who follow this meeting don't know what happened on the Higher Education Committee. In fact, the law was so disastrously bad that amendments were tabled by the ruling coalition and replaced by amendments to these amendments, amendments to the amendments were tabled and amendments were tabled. You can imagine how I felt when, as president of the Higher Education Committee in such a sensitive and important area for the development of Slovenia, such as higher education, I had to put to the vote such a "shamp" prepared law that it was roughly as this: "Now we are voting on the amendment to the amended amendment, including the amendment, and we are voting." Please! If this is the most important law, as the Minister had previously said, then in view of the shamparija in his preparation, which was well justified also by the Law-Legal Service, which warned not only of inconsistencies and errors and ambiguities, but also of the apparent unconstitutionality of certain provisions, then - God saves our Slovenia. What's going on here in the area of higher education is something that some serious government shouldn't afford. This is a space that is important for development. And of course every area of social development is based on healthy competition. In fact, the law is written in such a way that, right now, where the issue of a key organ is concerned, the world, it narrows down to an extremely small group of people who, on top of everything else in large part, is called by actually institutionalising the cartel of existing established established universities to the detriment of anything else that is or could arise in the years to come. It's said, in a way, it monopolizes the academic field, shuts it down. This is a run on short lines and certainly in clear contrast not only with public interest, but also with the trends that you have developed in Europe. We have three universities in the neighboring town of Gradac. We're told there's too many already. In Taiwan, which is relatively small, 270 universities, a large part of their tachnological development is also based on the potential it brings. With us, all of this wants to be closed down, squeezed, retained, or even restored to an even greater extent by some monopoly. And then let someone convince me that it is not the right issue that this new development paradigm is so sung in practice the restoration of socialism, which, of course, was based on monopolies, political and then monopolies in all areas of social life. And we are also witnesses to this at a given time. The only thing that could be done on the committee in order to improve the existing text - in addition to the introduction of corrections that it has pointed out very clearly and very clearly, and I must say that I am therefore very grateful to her personally and give her recognition, the Legislative and Legal Service - was that the inclusiveness had increased, at least to this minimum, to this crucial body. That is why we have also supported in the opposition the SD amendment, in line with the views presented by both the unions and, in particular, the students who were present at the meeting. It is now proposed that all that has been corrected at least minimally be eliminated. I must say that I do not know why someone has decided that, once again, for Slovenia, a long-term key area of society, there has been an experiment that is not European comparable and that the applicants should ensure what they want. For even the situation in Slovenia is not comparable to that of those countries that have been for decades since time II. World wars enjoyed perfect freedom, which was not only political but also academic. Academic freedom, freedom of universities, independence, their autonomy is also a constitutional category. Of course, this does not mean that this can be misused in this sense, as follows from the law, that this place is closed so that nothing else can be created by chance. Because that's really the trend of this marriage. Dr. Mencinger was crystal clear: "What higher quality is not expected, but is expected to prevent the establishment of new universities." This is an exact quote that you also have in your report, and believe me, I didn't write it. You all know what that means in practice. This means less development for Slovenia, that is: in order to establish another monopoly, another key Slovenian priority and priority is sacrificed. This is freedom of academic creation, freedom of autonomous science, freedom of all who want to create in the field of intellectual development of Slovenia. Because it wants to base your political monopoly on such established monopolies in the long term. However, this policy, I am deeply convinced, is wrong because it is against Europe's modern trends, against knowledge of social science and science, and because it is extremely anti-European. And this anti-development attitude will finally avenge you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Golobič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Given that the general debate is taking place despite the President's invitation - I certainly do not object to it - I would like to say a few things. Mr Grimes mentioned that only God can save Slovenia. Yesterday was the anniversary of this deliverance. I know it hurts you, but this law is due to this act that happened, whether it was by God or by other grace. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u227	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u228	It is true, however, that we are dealing with drought, including heritage in this area, which is by no means envy and is all but European, which we have just heard about. So far, this area, this work, has been carried out by the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education. A few weeks ago, his president resigned. Unfortunately, they cannot conclude a new agreement, nor can they actually meet to be concluding for a while. The Director of the Secretariat, who operationally led the work of the Higher Education Council, also resigned. I have worked with both of them to the best of my ability, because it was an independent institution, to the best of my ability, to help establish conditions for their normal work. They had a tremendous amount of work to do this year, which was the last one before the full introduction of Bologna Study Programmes - next week this academic year begins - and it was necessary to accredit after the current tape, also, there is no dilemma, at the expense of quality, more than 200 higher education programmes, in the short term. In short, the Higher Education Council is in a very unenviable position. This coincides with this amendment of the law by accident. Better illustrations of how much he is needed and how to change the rules of the game, by which he acted and found himself in a dead end. By the way, on meeting the conditions, the Higher Education Council does not meet the conditions and criteria for becoming a member of the ENQE - European Association of Such Agencies. The vice-president of this agency was in Slovenia at the end of last year, he also visited the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education and said this unequivocally after that meeting. You refer to another visit, another association, which has no connection with ENQO, which is the only one recognised as giving relevant changes in this area. But anyway, let's look at reality. In the current Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education, it is appointed by the Government of the President and 20 members. So much for the independence of the present world. The government, the previous government, which has been through the amendment through Parliament - by the way, on how the opinion of the honourable Parliamentary Legislative and Legal Service was then taken into account, we can continue to speak, I think that we can count on ourselves at the time that we recognised, I will say, nomothenically justified proposals and summarize them in the amendments, a coalition, because the government has no longer had this option and it would be difficult to make this clear. The parliamentary procedure serves to adopt amendments without pressing the key by eclamation, which the dedicated government brings to this assembly. I think that it would be least expected of Members to look positively at the parliamentary procedure in its substantive, not formalistic, sense; and this has happened in this law. But also a word; therefore, in the previous world, the government has appointed a president and 20 members, to the current Council of the Agency, eleven or thirteen-members, the government will appoint two. All others will be institutions, stakeholders will name directly. Without this government mediation. What happened to this government mediation? This could be correct if the previous government would take into account the proposals of civil society organisations or institutions that have proposed - we know what farce has taken place in the adoption or appointment of members of the RTV Programme Council when, I will say, the astronomical societies of government candidates have actually brought them through the parliamentary procedure. See, representatives of employees and employers who - indeed - must be members of such bodies. In our proposal, one is proposed by a representative employer organisation and the other by a representative employee organisation. The labour market is therefore very determined to identify which higher education programmes are to be approved in terms of the needs of employers and in terms of the difficulties or needs of workers in the labour market. That's why it's here. But there were three officials, government officials, a consultant in the cabinet of the President of the Government, who was also a representative of employers in the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education or a director of a non-governmental agency. Thus the obvious was completely brought for the hair and far from reality. This agency, this law has actually and rightly come across or, I will say, represents a major challenge for the legislative and legal services of these institutions, such as the Government and the National Assembly. Believe me, even in the Government we have had many discussions with the Legislative and Legal Service, many of the proposals we have taken into account, many of the solutions we have made there, with that Legislative and Legal Service, we have resigned here in favour of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of Parliament, sometimes we have even returned to the first solution, because lawyers rarely find themselves in a situation where an institution is placed in this way, as is the case with the National Quality Agency. This was tried, in a loving way, by the world in the previous term of the coalition with the previous amendment of the Higher Education Act, by the formation of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education, which it defined as a direct, non-governmental budgetary user. For example, this status has the National Assembly and this status has, for example, the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art - that you have an idea of what we're talking about. We are establishing an institution with this agency, which in a formal sense is so very independent. And this for lawyers who want to have as few exceptions as possible is justified, and they want to bring everything into certain frameworks of systemic laws, such as the Law on Public Agencies, which does not guarantee the independence that we want to achieve here, independence from this government and from all subsequent governments. This was a problem for the legal and regulatory services, and this problem we have overcome, we have managed to maintain this status. We have taken into account, unlike the previous mandate, the legitimate comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and the coalition are recognised for this. Because they have to be taken into account. In the previous term they were ignored, from the first to the last, and that is why the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education is in a position where, due to a conflict of interest, it is unable to carry out its work because of legally undetermined solutions, despite good will and engagement, for example, Professor Pisinski, who was recently led by him as President before his resignation. I will further explain why the Government has proposed this amendment, what are the reasons for what led us here - it is solely about the underlying reasons and the concern that this agency, which is formally, as I have just explained, would be set up as one of the few institutions which has all the attributes of independence, so that it can continue its very difficult work, and here I agree with the Chairman of the Committee: from this law, much depends on the future of Slovenia, depending on the quality of higher education is very much on the quality of higher education. And that's what led us and led the government and led all the participants in the expert group, 23 members were in which basic conceptual solutions were put forward to set up the Council of the Agency and its composition in the way that the Government, through this amendment, again proposed to the National Assembly, Members and Members in order to make it possible for this agency, in addition to the formal independence and the ability to achieve the challenging objectives set before this agency, to be able to do so through the composition of a Council that will not bring into its work dimensions that do not affect it and that there is no Council of such agencies within the European space that unite it or the organisations that link it into the previously-called ENQA. More about this further, so far in this general sense only this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u230	Mr Minister, since you spoke of principle, I would remind you that the current coalition, during a pre-election period, has stressed the social partnership exceptionally as one of its values, as well as the inclusion of all the groups that each legal solution seeks not only in the lawmaking process, but also in the bodies that some law brings. In this case, there is no doubt about this very issue, which is no longer at such a high level of principle, but it is a concrete decision. Here big words replace small actions, and these are obvious. The proposal we voted on the committee went in the direction of enlargement; enlargement with a student representative and with a union representative, an additional representative. Now you are proposing the elimination of this solution, and we have all received a letter from all the unions concerned and I quote: "All the representative unions in the field of higher education are extremely surprised at the decision of the Government and we cannot agree with it at all. That is why we expect you to reject the efforts of the Government, which is trying to destroy the already voted amendment." I'm not going to read everything else because time is limited, and I'm sure the message is crystal clear. Don't talk about principle if the moment you're faced with a real choice, you swallow everything you've sworn to. And on the basis of which you have been given a mandate, which you are now dealing with, and you are acting in complete contravention of your own declared values. Then don't be surprised if you've got it, but obviously you haven't understood it yet, the first lesson in the European elections, and if you haven't understood the message that's in the paper today - I'll show you the cartoon of Mrs. Alane, my fellow Ukrainians, who I really appreciate because she's a top cartoonist, where she says, "He's like this since I asked him what he thinks about the work of our government." If you act so unintentionally, do not be surprised if such caricatures are an anniversary of your rule. I hope that at least this message, which is humorous, you have understood and taken seriously enough. I also spoke earlier about the quality of the preparation of this law, which was written incredibly "strange". Apparently, someone was in a hurry, and things were "distracted together," and things weren't set up right. The only point of improvement was the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. And for this reason, the Government now proposes to destroy it, contrary to its own declared values, contrary to all the starting points and values that you swore and which you still declare to be the first in line, when, of course, there is no need for words to follow action. Today, however, actions will follow and will be obvious, as the vote will show very clearly who respects the principles of social dialogue, the principle of inclusiveness, the principles of the integration of the various groups that each legal solution seeks, not only in the drafting of the law, but also in the case at hand, but also later in the search for optimal solutions at the time of implementation of the law itself. For this reason, of course, we will vote against the government amendment together with colleagues from the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Minister Gregor Golobič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Well, now that the debate has moved to the amendment itself, let me explain. Anyway, I'm giving all the credit to the cartoonist first. And I guarantee that this coalition, due to its criticism, humorous or inhumane, as well as to any other journalist, will not call an extraordinary meeting, the Prime Minister of the Government will not offer a resignation due to the petition of some journalists and will lead them to some record of enemies of the state for the next 250 years, as happened to the unfortunate 571 journalists. See; as you have rightly found, higher education partners were all in line, unlike previous novels of this law, where they were never invited, they were invited to this professional council. It was fully supported by students, labour unions, general unions and so on. It's a partnership and it's an inclusiveness. As you know, in the previous term, the Higher Education Act, which raised the entire higher education public on its feet, with the exception of the person quoted above, is referred to as the "high school space as prey" and is well known in the SDS party when protesting this arrogant exclusion, not allowing the basic debate on the solutions to the law. This was the novel of the law on higher education, a fundamental novel, which, of course, was not adopted either. We have opened this dialogue and have been very pleased with the fact that they can be here - and even now that we are preparing the National Qualifications Framework Act, as we are amending the Higher Education Financing Regulation, everything is going on in this evasive way. Thus, this observation is completely immaterial. They are principles, we respect them fully. Of course, this does not mean that all of these partners are included in all the bodies that a law provides. They are included in the new Higher Education Council, on which Mr Zorn has earlier expressed himself so resiliently that it is a pendant, is the consultative body to which all these partners are included to an extent and will be discussed, in advance, on all actions, changes - normative and other - in the field of higher education. And they're happy with it, they welcome it. For example, at the previous meeting of the competent committee of the Council of State twice, and as an amendment, this was later included, at the attention of State Councillor Tonet Persak, that it would be good to ensure the representation of someone covering the arts in this higher education world, because art is also subject to academic higher education. And it is now within the provision if you have seen that for the Higher Education Council, in which the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, it was previously thought that one of the representatives, proposed two, must be one of the classes covering the arts. By the way, with all the commitment to inclusiveness that you're talking about here in some depressed way, because it's not at all about this because it's not a partner body, the world of the agency is not a partner body, it has completely different powers and tasks. It's like that all over Europe. Why do you not think it would be right for the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts to propose a representative to the Council of the Quality Agency? You forgot about her, don't you think it's irrelevant? It's important, he's a partner, but he doesn't belong here. This is a trade, a union and a student organization that has no basis in any argument. The proposed amendment briefly preserves the structure of the Agency's Council as envisaged in the bill. It ensures, in accordance with the principles of inclusion of all higher education partners to be included in the Council of Agencies. The involvement of academic and non-academic representatives and the appropriate balance in most of the agencies are in the small majority representatives from the academic sphere, which is logical. Without this amendment, this relationship has been completely undermined in favour of the non-academic sphere and will cause a revolution and further problems in the work of the Agency. This ensures that the members of the Board of the Agency act professionally, independently, independently and in their work are not bound to conclusions, positions, instructions from institutions designated or other institutions explicitly. ENQA, previously mentioned by the most legitimate organisation at European level, states in its documents that in decision-making bodies, i.e. in councils of such agencies, the most frequently represented are: groups of higher education institutions, i.e. their representatives, followed by students and representatives of sacred works as a whole, not employees in higher education. Most frequently, four groups are included. The international comparison of these structures proves that students are mostly included as equal partners, about 70% are such agencies, some are only observers, and 70% are members. In Germany alone, there is more than one member who has 18-member boards of such agencies, everywhere else the number is moving here somewhere, or some are lower than the proposal, that is 11 - they only have one member. With this amendment, we propose to maintain two, which is far more than the European average, and to ensure more than sufficient representativeness or inclusiveness of students as important partners in this regard. For example, there are 2 out of 13 members of the Austrian agency. Here we compare the number in the text of the law that you have before you, so that the student organization in the world of the agency will put as many representatives as - at present 4, and later 5, 6, 10, or 150, as previously said, Slovenian universities; united in the rector conference, they will be allowed to name three in the world of the agency, as well as a student organization. It's not inclusiveness, it's a misunderstanding of principles. Representatives of the Labour Council, i.e. employers, employees are also included in most of these structures of the Agency's councils. While it is clear that it is not a matter of representatives of an internal higher education employment structure, because - by the way, we explicitly prohibit in this law that representatives of the internal labour structure, namely the Rectors, the Rectors, the Deans, the Prodecessors, the Senate members in general, are members of the Council, are excluded. This isn't inclusive either, but it's not about that! They must not be because they are in conflict of interest and are in conflict of interest, such as the members now of the Rectors after their functions in the existing Higher Education Council. And that's why the introduction of representatives of the working internal side of the higher education community, i.e. unions employed in higher education, is something that has no interlocutor. And what Dr Bohinc wrote in his letter was also the president of the Rector's Conference, the director of the University of Primorsko, to introduce the logic of partnership into the body, which is an expert who does not act on a partnership principle, because it is not his task. He will decide on the new Higher Education Council, he will decide on all other steps, but not on this. The expert reports of the expert commissions on each area of the evaluation programme will be reviewed here, together with the comments of the affected investor, and will therefore be decided by the Board of the Agency. In this context, this amendment by the Government, which places a state of true balance on the academic and non-academic sphere and ensures adequate representation from the world of work, i.e. employers and workers, by one representative agreed upon by representative organisations, what we believe will ensure that this agency will be able to meet its high expectations and avoid, despite the fact that we could spread this composition - I mentioned the case of the Slovenian Academy, for example - allowing what needs to be ensured here. However, it will not pursue other objectives because other objectives are not foreseen here and would only interfere with the Agency's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u233	Thank you. Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u234	Thank you so much for saying that. It really surprises me that the Government, or you, Mr Minister, is so resolutely saying that you are in principle opposed to this proposal, which was voted on by the Higher Education Committee, that one member should also be appointed by representative unions in the field of higher education. This is obviously about muscle tightening, who is stronger, whether you have managed to convince your colleagues from your coalition partner SD in order to support this amendment today, or whether we will reject it together. We will certainly reject it, for I see no reason why we should prevent the representatives of this union from having a member of their own. This is not about a person who will be in the ranks of a high school union. They have the opportunity to appoint, and I believe they will appoint a man or an expert who is also understood in this area. I am sure that you yourself do not believe that this body, this agency, is a body that will now make some movement in the area of higher education, which should have been 20 years ago. Surely in Slovenia in this area we have done great damage in the past and this will not be remediable with any such agency. The other definitions that you have listed in this area also leave such a wide selection space that the possibility of manipulation is more than obvious here. Let me give you an example. One member shall be appointed by representative employers' associations as agreed. We have a lot of these associations, but they're gonna name one member. Who will be the one to determine who will be? I'm sure there'll be a political "dealing" here. Just like in the unions. I am so sure that this agency will probably be the main reason for achieving completely different objectives than improving higher education in Slovenia. I was present shortly ago at a round table on the topic of linking higher education with the economy where two eminent professors were present. One from the University of Maribor, one from Ljubljana, both studied abroad, taught abroad and their findings that our higher education space is closed to prevent competitiveness, which is also a key condition for quality, but it is not in Slovenia. And it is this change that we have tried to introduce in the previous mandate that it has opened up a competitive space in higher education as well, to allow the establishment of new higher education institutions, new universities, that you will now close down, make it impossible, and that means a step backwards. That is how time will show, and this very quickly, that the purpose of this law is completely different, as was presented here by the Ministry or I believe it will be by the coalition Members, but it is a shame to play with our future intellectuals, with those who will need the knowledge they could get in our colleges, only on condition that there will be quality and not some political bias, as in the vast majority of cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u235	Thank you. Mr. Yuri has the floor. Please. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Chairman. It's a nice greeting to the coworkers and the coworkers. In the debate on this amendment, we can conclude from the content that, after all, the composition of the Agency's Council is not as disruptive as it is obvious for some of the agencies themselves. In the introductory arguments, I have heard discussions about the fact that this agency is not supposed to be European comparable or that the current Higher Education Council is supposed to work well. It's kind of like I'm saying now that this shirt I'm wearing is white, and apparently it's not, and then someone says to me, "No, it's white." And I say, "Well, obviously it's not." And he insists it's white. And I say, "Well, let's make it white if you want it, but it still isn't." And this is a problem in the current debate on the Agency's Council and in the debate on the world for higher education. The Higher Education Council, and that's a fact, is not working. It's not working. This amendment to the law on higher education and the establishment of an agency will also allow our network to be included in the European ENQO and thus European comparable quality assessment. This is also a fact, and in any rational debate, where it is not a question of how much time we will spend, but how many quality arguments we will exchange, any such discussion would conclude here. If something now does not allow European comparability or even achieve European quality standards, in order to be included in the European quality network, something else, which brings about a change, yes, and then there is no debate. Then, of course, that's welcome. And that's why this change of law is welcome. Quality is the only criterion that enables success in higher education. There is no quantity, there is no cost reduction, there is no search for new technological innovations in processes so that the company can offer a cheaper product. In higher education, quality is the only thing that counts. And only what is considered, quality can be determined by an agency that will be recognised in Europe - point 1 - which will be more independent of government and political circles, such as the Higher Education Council - point 2 - and in which all partners will be presented in a way that will feel involved and satisfied with their role in the very functioning of the Agency's Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u237	Thank you. Mr. Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u238	I support the new law on higher education heartily, no matter what the fate of this amendment will be. I think that this law finally brings us to what Slovenian students demanded 10 years ago: national accreditation of independent quality accreditation. If we want to produce more demanding products or services in this country in terms of perspective, if we want to create a higher value on the basis of these products and services and sell these products and services at a better price, so that people in our country can achieve higher quality of life, then we need to take some decisive steps in the higher education segment. I understand the national quality agency in higher education as a strong step in this direction, but of course this step cannot be isolated. This will soon have to be followed by other decisions of the National Assembly and the Government, which may be linked to difficult things, when the area of higher education needs to be given a substantial higher priority also in the funds allocated from the State budget. I would also like to commend this law as a good example of a partnership approach to the drafting of legislation, and I also have high expectations for this law. And now I'm going to the amendment. I was somewhat disturbed by the Minister's assessment that the amendment, as tabled by the Social Democrats and as voted on by his mother's working body, was due to the political trade of students and trade unions. Students and trade unions have approached us properly and presented their ideas on how the Agency's Council should be designed. We welcomed these proposals and captured them in this amendment. Since we are convinced that this does not change the Agency's concept set out in the Council, it increases the motivation and interest of stakeholders to ensure that the decisions of the Agency's Council are as they should be: professionally sound and independent. If we look at the composition of the Council at the proposal of this amendment or without it, we find that, according to a proposal as voted on by the Committee and proposed by the Social Democrats, the Council consists of 13 members, 7 of whom I consider to be representatives of the academic public and 6 representatives of the non-academic public. Why? Because 3 appoints a rector conference and one independent higher education institution, it is not in the first and not in the second cases that it ensures that the one appointed will come from the academic sphere. That is why I also consider high-level vocational schools to be those who will delegate an academic member to this quota. Trade unions in higher education as well. It is said that the acquisition which, according to the proposal of the Social Democrats, came into the membership of this world, as well as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which will appoint 2 academics: one as an acquaintance of higher education at home and one with experience abroad. Representatives of the representative association of higher education schools, student organisations, employers and trade unions can therefore be considered as representatives of the non-academic public. That's a seven-to-six ratio. A similar relationship is maintained by the government proposal. So six to five. I think that the text of this Article contains some solutions that guarantee that the functioning of this world will be as we all wish: professionally, independently and independently, as the members of the Council of the Agency, as also stressed by the Minister, are not bound by the positions, instructions or conclusions of the institutions they have appointed in their work. Also, which is one of the most important innovations under the current law or the now established higher education council, the members of the world must sign or have respected the principle of conflict of interest prevention and the principle of impartiality when making decisions. If we could respect this in, by the opposition so sang in the current composition of the Higher Education Council, we would have significantly fewer problems in higher education and much less exploited public sector in the area of higher education. Finally, the Council of the Agency adopts decisions by a majority of the votes of all members who will have to go through a specific process of professional training in the field of the work of the Agency, which is also provided for by this law. I am convinced that, as is now proposed, even without a government amendment, the law has ensured that our common objectives for higher quality in higher education will be achieved.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u239	Thank you. Mr Posedel has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Alone and in the Group of Members, we will indeed support this government amendment out of simple conviction because it preserves the structure of representation, as provided for in the basic law which was given into procedure. We have also heard about this basic law on the working body, from all involved, we have also commended or agreed to such a proposal and also with the structure proposed in the basic proposal. We have heard more; that everyone was able to participate in this law: those who were invited, and also those who themselves have been invited to participate, and that they have all highlighted it - all from the higher education sphere and representatives of the student organisation and the union. So there was little astonishment then for the additional amendment that changed this structure, which, as it was said, was confirmed and agreed upon. Interestingly, all of them, Dr. Mencinger, on behalf of the Committee at the State Council, strongly supported Dr. Bohinc on behalf of the Rector's University, explicitly supported the law, the representatives of the student organisation explicitly supported the law with such a number of representations, and the unions also praised the possibility of integration, confirmed such composition and structure. That was really interesting on this parental committee. In his debate today, the chairman of the committee said how he felt when he had to interpret such a "shampast" law. At the session, he even allowed himself expressions that were even less appropriate than "goats" and so on. And yet he did not wonder how we felt about the other members of the Higher Education Committee, how the proposers felt about how everyone who participated in the formation of this law felt. It must have been a very bad introduction, where the President wrongly allowed himself the expression and outpouring of all his anger towards this law and characterized it in the same way as today and with even worse terms. That there is also one sentence of Dr. Mencinger in the report, but there are no other sentences with which the other participants stressed that the law is good, that the time is right, and that it is true that this good law also depends on the further development of our country. Well, someone doesn't want to hear it, and they don't want to understand it. Even in running and making fun of the law, the proponents and cartoons: amendment to the amendment and correction, it is a mockery of itself, because it is a procedure by which the bill improves. And nothing's wrong! And it is these amendments and these additional explanations, including the warnings of the Legal and Legislative Services, that have led to the elimination of ambiguity and that certain things that some have not understood or known well enough have also been harmonised and clarified. It was also the belief that this law was good, but it was true that it was probably for someone who had written certain laws without the involvement of experts in the past without commenting, that it was difficult to understand that such a way of adopting a law was right, that it was with this multitude of opinions and professional knowledge that a good law could be drawn up, which I repeat, that all those involved stressed it. I am confident that today, even in this clarification, which was also responsible after the amendment voted, which was tabled and adopted by the home committee itself, the conduct of Members and Members will be responsible and that they will vote in favour of the government proposal, because this government amendment is the one that returns and establishes the balance as proposed and has a basic law and is also the right one in this package. So I repeat that I will support this government amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u241	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Let me begin by finding that we have only one amendment before us in the consideration of the bill, because today so much has been said about the amendments that a slightly less attentive listener or a co-signer of our meeting might think that we are in a jam with some amendments. Of course, it must be said that Slovenia was not threatened, as was said because you had to accept amendments and amendments to the amendments to the Committee, which also covers the area of higher education. It's completely normal. There is no law not dealt with in this way; and it is also intended to work in committees to receive amendments to improve things and to take into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. In short, what was initially presented today as an argument that marriage is weak, unprofessional, harmful, all based on these facts and highlighting these facts, which I find totally inappropriate and attractive to hair. I think that one of the key acquisitions of this law is the establishment of a national quality agency in higher education. This is the agency that will ensure that the quality of higher education is improved. And I believe the SDS colleagues don't like it. They don't like it because they want to keep the Higher Education Council; the Higher Education Council, which in the past has done bad work by causing conflicts, which, according to my assessment, has done a lot of damage to Slovenian higher education and education. I think that the proposal for a novelty is necessary, particularly in order to raise the quality of higher education. To achieve this, we need a good agency. We need an effective quality assurance system. The Agency for Quality Assurance in Higher Education is essential for the interest of the Republic of Slovenia and for the interests of its citizens. Citizens need to know what they get when they sign up for some college study, some institution, some study program. They need to know that they will be able to do something, work, at home, or abroad by obtaining a diploma. Therefore, the Agency is also important for the recognition of Slovenian diplomas in other European countries. If a diploma is awarded by a higher education institution accredited by such a credible agency, it will be recognised. And the Higher Education Council can't get that kind of accreditation. I therefore find it inappropriate to insist that such a solution is a political fact. With regard to the proposed amendment, I believe it is appropriate to think in particular in the direction of maintaining certain consistency. In doing so, we support the Ministry and the Minister. We believe that this consistent care of the organ is being maintained. I think it would be politically oversimplification if we could now report to our parliamentary group or to the minister that we are against students or against trade unions. Students cooperated properly in the drafting of the law, debated and also had their representatives in the agency so that it would not look like they had no representatives. They suggest we have more. Of course, there are laws, and we have to say this explicitly once again, all those who participated in it, the rectors, the students, the institutions, the employers, the unions, supported it. They supported the marriage and gave it a green light. That is why I think that it is an extremely inappropriate act to create an impression today, as if it were some sort of scrupulous, extremely inappropriate act, that is an extremely important law that will bring a lot of good to Slovenian higher education. It is a matter of quality in higher education and of raising it up and in this agency, it must be a rule in this agency that there are experts in higher education who must work on their own conscience and must not be representatives of any organisation if we are to ensure that this agency actually works politically and professionally independently, and I think and I hope that we all do. Such an agency cannot be, must not be in any sense any political body. That is why we will support the amendment to the law in the Parliamentary Group, and we hope that this will truly achieve those goals that have been highlighted in the drafting of the law so many times in a positive sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u243	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u244	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with co-worker, MEPs and Members of Parliament! The debate on the amendment to the proposal for a law on higher education in fact to the complementary proposal of the law on higher education continues with attempts to amend higher education legislation at a point where Slovenia has long committed itself to establishing an independent body for quality assurance in higher education. The promises were broken and a higher education council was set up instead. At the time, the constitutional judgment merely stated that a slightly different job should be arranged, but things did not change. What problems have been faced by higher education institutions, employees and others, we have been monitoring and understanding the efforts of the Government, in particular the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, to try to manage the impossible situation as quickly as possible. I therefore express this amendment with all my support, no matter how the vote on the proposed amendment of the Government will proceed. Because I believe that the essential quality or essential contribution of this law is the creation of an agency for quality. Anything else is of marginal importance, although it was also possible in the media to detect the possibility of finding a crack in this law right under this Article. Allow me to clarify, however, that those who do not follow the developments on the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development will be a little clearer in what context this law is being addressed and you will also understand where my problem with defining the government amendment is going to fall. On the Committee on Higher Education, we have previously discussed an academic petition on the closure or the risk of the closure of Slovenian higher education. Those who are now most calling for partnership after the agreement have forgotten to invite partners, social partners, to this very important debate. They were not invited to trade unions in higher education and so on. I could tell you who wasn't invited, but there was a lecture given -- sorry to say that a lecture was given because it didn't deserve that name -- that wanted to prove what kind of danger academic freedom was in. They had a rerun of this at the board meeting, which is on the 5th, at which we discussed the amendment of the law. If any of us might forget how a representative of the authors of the academic petition marked the quality of the draft law, he told us once again. Before that, of course, the chairman of the committee did. Why am I talking about this? To see how different the words of the former Rector of the University of Ljubljana sound when, as a representative of the State Council, he said what he was supposed to say, and he said so - we had heard the paraphrasing of his words, which was a preinterpretation. In fact, he said: "Good day, the Commission of the State Council unanimously supported the law as it is, although of course we do not believe that it will contribute significantly to quality, it will prevent some of the Romanianisation that my predecessor has advocated. The Romanianisation of the university, however, means the establishment of 300 universities and various dissident schools. But I'm not going to talk about technological progress or anything like that." In his debate, the representative of the State Council therefore took the initiative to maintain or develop the quality of Slovenian higher education space, which he did not see in the expansion and increase of higher education institutions, because these higher education institutions must also have appropriate accreditation, appropriate programmes, higher education teachers and other technical needs. Let me just remind you that my word was taken from me at the University of Maribor when I wanted to say that my position was so that - even at the meeting of the Higher Education Committee - when I wanted to say that I do not support the excessive expansion of universities if we cannot guarantee the appropriate quality and the corresponding number of enrolled ones. As far as competition is concerned, you know, I have lived in Maribor for several decades and we have already lived before, and we have now experienced the competition of both the Grassian higher education institutions, both the Danish and the Celovian, and we could say something about it. If I have explained in part the context here, then let me point out that there are also three higher education unions that have convinced me that I have given my consent to the amendment of the Social Democrats for the revised structure of the Agency's Council. They point out at all times in their reasoning that they were interlocutors in the formation of a proposal for a law. So - no secret that the dialogue is over. What they also pointed out at the committee meeting was that at the last stage there was some misunderstanding about the representation of higher education unions and the confederation of trade unions. But here I have to tell you where I feel embarrassed. Although it would be preferable for me if the Government did not table this amendment, because in fact I am convinced that by increasing the number from 11 to 13, the internal ratio will not be compromised in such a way that the quality agency's activity is compromised. And that, despite such or that, if I do not know what the outcome will be, it may also be possible for it to carry out its mission and task with a larger number of representatives or members, because I understand the appointment to the Council of the Agency in a similar manner as explained by the Minister. Rather than being the most zealous representatives of these applicants, they are experts who enjoy confidence. I understood the higher education unions that they wanted to choose the one who enjoys their full support from the employees in higher education institutions. Of course, I understand they can't be covered by all the professions. However, I am also concerned with the creation of higher education space in relation to the Lisbon strategy and with some other developments that have already been identified in individual countries in higher education that those professions which are not supported by the labour market in such an efficient position are in a deprived position, and I think that it is extremely important for Slovenia's higher education space to develop those professions that are in the national interest of the Slovenian higher education area. Therefore, forgive me, Mr Minister, when you speak of the student organisation and unions and the Group of Social Democrats or those who are members of the Committee on Higher Education, trade, I say that I am doing this out of conviction, not from trade. That's why I'm embarrassed! As it is said, I regret that we are now involved in a matter which, compared to the importance of setting up a quality agency, is not at all as important and I see all this debate now as a repetition of the general debate, which was of quality, which was the debt that was incurred and in which, of course, it wanted to show that the bill was bad. And I will end with this, just as I started, how the president of the working body in his report can interpret some things. The President had problems in the amendments to this law and in the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. We cannot have problems with the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, since the amendments have mainly been summarised by the legislative and legal services. As far as the number is concerned. The bill has 24 articles, the Law-Legal Service has comments on nine. If I look at the hystroiat of the adoption of laws in the previous term, then this is almost a modelly prepared law. But if I look at things differently, if I look at that stretching article 15 and the law has 43 articles, it has 17 comments. So we can't attach this to the one that is now embarrassing me because I see the supporters of the adopted solution in the parliamentary group whose aim is to destroy this law. That's the problem. Because you want to discuss things with the wrong arguments. I hope that the marriage in the National Assembly will be supported, and the amendment, as it were said, does not give me the opportunity to think differently than I thought on the committee. And we didn't set time records for accepting amendments. But what the Group of Members will do is its business. All I did was explain my point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u245	Thank you. Since it's still an interest, I'm opening an application for debate. Excuse me. I'm gonna ask you again because she's the same? [[...]] Yes, it is. Mr. Levanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u246	Thank you so much for saying that. Today or more times, we are witnessing that whatever this government coalition is preparing, or a single ministry, is not right, and even if it is right, it is necessary to present it in such a way that at least it is presented in public, but it is not right. I appreciate the very good thing that we have finally reached such a marriage and that today, I hope, we will also adopt it. In the past, we have had many shortcomings within the higher education framework and many things that we have not been able to do precisely because there was no will or knowledge to move things forward. Of course, many things are still open in this law, many things are still open in this area of higher education, and this will have to be implemented in the future because, after all, we need a bologna process that will work, not something that is just on paper. And within this law is one of the most important things today, and this is the establishment of an agency to ensure quality and independence, and this is essentially an agency where both those who are most familiar with this area and those who are somehow involved in the education process are students, trade unions and all those who belong here. The Agency is a prerequisite for this, but it is not enough for us to arrive at a very high-quality educational process and that we will be able to lead matters in terms of greater quality. What is one of the important arguments we have heard in the past that, for example, the composition of the world - and this also concerns this amendment - includes one or a maximum of two students everywhere. This may already be true, but nowhere in Europe has Bologna reform gone as badly as they did here in Slovenia. What we have done with this in the past is unfortunately incomparable to what Bologna is supposed to bring about in the progress of the educational system. With us, a number of titles are not uniform, people are now studying four plus one year or three plus two years for the former four-year-olds. Nowhere knows what that means exactly, and many employers, many of whom, when they come to their first work experience, do not know where their diploma will be. Therefore, it is very necessary to make this a once-in-a-lifetime end, to start serious follow-up and to get an agency that will really be able to monitor such quality implementation. I must say that today there have been a lot of criticism about this law, but the opportunity to propose this amendment has been seized, where there are many times of obviouss on one side or the other, both by the opposition and by those who today claim that this amendment has been proposed - something that has been very painful - and in such cases we need to be a little more careful - that there has been political trade between students, unions and those who have proposed this amendment. My personal opinion is that no matter how many members of this agency there will be, we all want the Agency to act qualitatively and to monitor both the programmes and the implementation of these programmes. It should therefore be in our interest that even if we had succeeded in reaching this compromise through social dialogue, this could then be the best solution for a positive signal and a positive journey for this agency in the future. However, I have also read the Government's explanation, which at some point raises the issue of the expansion of this world, this agency. I would like to say that, however, I wish that we could go on doing so in a different way and come up with a solution that would satisfy everyone. I hope so, and it's still not too late to get there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u247	Thank you. Mr. Keck, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u248	Thank you for your word. I support the proposed law, and I also support the amendment, and I believe that one of the most important things in this law is the quality agency for which we have listened to various indications, as it is probably politically motivated and that God knows what is behind it. How must we say that it is politically motivated, given that only two members of this agency are represented by the government? In the previous world set up by the previous government, all 20 members were appointed by the government. So where is political motivation? And that is precisely the main reason why the opposition opposes this agency. I am sure that the next speaker will once again give all the impressions he has already said, but unfortunately the minister will not be able to answer them because we have only 7 seconds left, but because he has already talked about this once.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u250	After some debates, I am particularly wondering where someone can take the right to pre-emergence higher education institutions, to attribute inadequacy to emerging universities, while at the same time shaping things in the legislation so that these same entities have the right opportunity to prove their full development potential and quality, they will never be able to obtain them. This is, of course, the doing of someone who understands the development of Slovenia very centrally, because it is based on its authority. For each university in each regional centre represents an extremely great development potential, a developmental progenitor on which a wider region can be founded. If you want two emerging cases: a new city against which Mr Kek has just spoken, and Nova Gorica are excellent examples of how new higher education institutions have a positive impact on the wider environment. This is an extremely important message. Unfortunately, the policy that chooses from this law is quite the opposite and the aggressiveness with which you enforce it has now been evident - at least some, not all - then convinces me that it is not a coincidence that the situation in the academic sphere is so that dozens of intellectual signatures can be collected in support of a petition for someone who has been caught in public concealment of his property, and at the same time they turn into silence because of fear, which they recognize in four eyes. When it comes to freedom of creation, freedom of academic space and their openness at home and in the world. And when you talk about political trade, obviously political trade in the ruling coalition was the main thing. Here I think it is a very clear message that at least some, not all again, understand cooperation with unions and students by using them when you need them and when you don't need them you can throw them out again and then talk about leadership by example. You know, it's about as credible as when you talk about saving with a "caffet" about belt tightening, lowering wages, while "shopping" in Milan, and "kaselc firm" about hiding property somewhere in the Netherlands. Is this example guidance? Are you aware of the message you are giving to future generations, including students? For this reason, of course, there will be a moment when we vote on this amendment, in the light of all the statements made earlier, in relation to the letter of trade unions and in the light of the allegations made by the Higher Education Committee. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u251	Thank you. Mr. Kek responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u252	Thank you for your word. I strongly reject what Mr Grims has told me; that I am committed to centralisation and that I am against education in New Town. True, I was somewhat mistaken when I announced what the gentleman would say, but he had this advantage to hear what I said, and he put words in my mouth that I didn't say at all, and I can only say once again that these are some fictions that I'm sure they don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u253	Thank you. Mr Jerič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u254	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Minister-designate with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members. Sam and the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act, of course, together with the Government Amendment to Article 15, because this proposed government amendment preserves the structure of the world as envisaged in the bill. More importantly, this structure of the Agency's Council was harmonised in the professional set. However, who participated in the expert council, which participated in the drafting of amendments and the updating of the proposal for higher education legislation, I think the Minister has already said in his introduction. We will support the amendment mainly because it ensures the proper enforcement of the interests of all partners while at the same time taking into account the necessary principles of action, it is said that all higher education partners are involved, that academic and non-academic representatives are involved - it is very important in order to ensure a proper balance, which is particularly important for European legislators in this area. And of course, since the amendment also ensures the independence, independence and expertise of the members of the Board of the Agency, which are not linked in their work to any instructions from the institutions that have appointed or proposed them. Now, it would be difficult for me to judge whether it was the most important marriage, but it was a very important marriage and a good marriage. I am proud of this that we will adopt a good law that in some ways aligns the Slovenian quality assurance system of higher education with European recommendations, standards and guidelines. This is also the basic purpose of the law, as it is necessary to improve the quality of Slovenian higher education in order to successfully integrate into European higher education. That is why I will, alone and in the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, both the government amendment to Article 15 and the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u255	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u256	Very fast - 7 plus 15 seconds. At the end of this debate, I would like to thank you for all the comments that have been in progress. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the procedures of the data. [[...]] The debate in this part of the hall was substantive and did not burden itself with aspects that had nothing to do with higher education, and I therefore thank you. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u257	Thank you. Since it's still an interest in the debate, I'm opening the application. Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I must say that the Ministry has drawn up a good law, that it is also a purpose and the goal is the right one. In Slovenia we want, we know and we are able to educate, and we need to do this qualitatively, better than the surroundings around us. I was also on the board, and I didn't see any problems at the time of my adoption. Apparently, he had the most difficulty understanding the president, but I must say that most people understood the matter well, correctly and correctly; because to follow the goal of the university in each Slovenian village, it is simply not possible. I know one of my friends who successfully and quickly got a college education. I asked him what was the hardest thing about college: exams, maybe diplomas or something. No! No! He said, "To raise money for tuition, then it was all automatic." And that's what this is all about! Of course, the criterion must be knowledge, quality, not money. And if we see that this lecture and the establishment of a number of small universities with the goal of profit and profit, turned into practice, it also proves this: last week I was appalled when I read that one of the Members of Parliament now is a lecturer at four universities at once. I wonder what the goals are, the purpose of these colleges. Certainly not professionalism, but obviously profit and profit, so of course I will also support the amendment and the whole marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u259	Thank you. Mr. Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u260	Hello! So, maybe Nova Gorica is a specific feature, because we have a New York University and in the local community we have been working hard in recent years to get programmes in this border area for several reasons. Because there are so many foreigners on the other side who are, who are and who are studying with us; because this periphery, if I say so, was so far away from other centers where these programs were being implemented. Therefore, I am pleased that we have achieved quite good results together: we are just putting a campus in Novi Gorica for the University of Novi Gorica, we are negotiating with the Ministry on the construction of the student tower, etc. And because we also have other colleges that want to grow into universities, and they have a lot of students - I will mention the European Faculty of Law, which has almost a thousand students - because of this I will support the law, along with the government amendment. Because - if I speak now as mayor - my interest is great, that these faculties are professional, that it is a content that will be verified by the profession and also verified by it. We want quality higher education institutions, and this quality should not, in any way, be checked by politics, because that would be the worst. I must say that the number of non-academic partners in this Council is also optimal, and I think there is therefore no reason why the Ministry should not support this law and these efforts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u261	Thank you. Mr. Friend. No! No! Mr. Yuri. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u262	Thank you very much. In this debate, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are obviously forgetting, which has already been mentioned, but not loud enough. Quality and accessibility, including accessibility of higher education, do not determine the number of universities, but the quality of universities. And I'm going to make a comparison with the country we like to compare ourselves to in Europe, the United States of America. How many universities do we know in the United States? We can probably count them on one hand's fingers. It's Harvard, MIT, a few more universities, and it ends immediately. In the United States, however, there is a total of 2,618 institutions, between universities and universities offering a four-year programme. If we also count the institutions that offer a two-year programme, these institutions are 4236. Do you know all 2006 and 4200 and so on? No! No! Because they are average or sub-average institutions that produce more or less money and more than universities are companies that sell - among the indications - "knowledge about a certain amount of money", you know, internationally, only a few universities. And if you go to look at the Shanghai scale, you'll see a similar position: some American universities are at the top of this scale, and then - the void. But I'd like to conclude with one more conclusion. If we're talking about principle, if we're talking about saying something and doing something else. Here we hear great praise for the newly established higher education institutions, the independent colleges which have been created in previous years and have also received state aid quickly, state money, and I would also say that someone on this account has earned a gratuitous profit, but of course then the supporter of these universities, Mr Branko Grims, is a doctorate, at the expense of the National Assembly at the FDV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u263	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u264	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I don't care if the Minister doesn't have time to respond anymore, because the Slovenian National Party wants to criticise that the proposed establishment of a national agency is being further shaped than it has been now. In fact, the composition of the Higher Education Council was designed to enable students to be critically evaluated, as well as the union representative. Now, when we talk about this amendment to Article 15 or Article 51h, you take the opportunity for trade unions to say anything about your decision or your work. Of course, higher education is increasingly losing its autonomy and falling under the dictatorship of the Ministry of Higher Education. I somehow know your mentality of work and I agree that this is purely in your nature of work, and therefore I want to be critical also on behalf of the Slovenian National Party that you want - of course I understand that you want - to have this control under you, that you want to essentially centrally manage and that you actually want to dictate work in this area. Of course, once the negative results have been revealed, the well-respected minister, you will also have to take this responsibility and somehow get over the ashes. I'd like to draw a parallel. These agencies, you know, it's just some kind of extended good human resources move by a minister who can hire a pretty large human machine in these agencies. Look, we have a number of these agencies, but I know this railroad agency there in Maribor. There's just a few people out there who don't do anything. Yeah, yeah, really, really. And that's gonna happen again here. However, when you have to take responsibility, you will plead against the agency: because they are responsible for this, because the minister cannot be responsible for this - it will be your answer. And you're taking one member from this composition that's supposed to represent employees or employees, that's a union representative, that's absurd. I am sure that this is a step backwards and the main solutions proposed by the law will also show the negative consequences later on. I believe you won't want to hear about the critics then, and you'll fabricate the truth as you know it. I'm not gonna say anything else, but you're doing very well, Mr. Secretary-General. Well, you forget you ever made any promises, and you forget what you ever said. Excellent policy!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u265	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah, I see a wish. Please sign up. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I myself will support the amendment of the Government; and, of course, I will also support, clearly, the adoption of the law in its entirety. Why am I going to support this amendment to the government? Mostly for two reasons. Firstly, I think, of course, it is in favour of the functioning of the Agency and its Council in that it has a transparent and specific number of members - that is the first reason. The second reason, of course, is that also because of what we could say - I hope that I will not run into the wrong understanding - even because of something that political hygiene could do; in this sense, that anyone, when the story opens, could bid, if I may say so, on candidates, new, additional members from individual groups, academic and non-academic, who would lead the world. This could happen, so far it is not lucky, but I think that if others have somehow limited themselves to what they have, it is right to limit in these relations, as they are, these two groups, which have now come into this composition in addition to the amendment of the Committee. These are my two main arguments, and I think we must also have a certain degree of rigour and political and decisive impartiality in relation to everyone here. We can agree with a number of students' arguments, trade unions - I am and I am today - but I have to say, but I think there may be some interest in us, determinations and separations, and here we stop and here we see that we are in certain things on different shores. That's how I look at it, and I don't resent anyone who thinks and looks at it differently. At the same time, I would say that this amendment, whether by choice or by choice, has stimulated all this broad debate that we have led. I, Mr Vice-President, will be extremely limited to the only two things connected with this amendment and this law. Indeed, when it comes to regional universities and the number of universities in Slovenia and universities. The debate on how many universities should be in Slovenia and how many universities should be in Slovenia is completely unproductive, completely meaningless, both in those who say there must be only four universities, as in those who say there must be not know how many. Universities and universities can be as many as they meet the criteria for accreditation and verification as necessary, and I wish there were as many as possible. I don't know how many. I'm not gonna talk about numbers. And I would very much like Slovenia, which would have a large number of high schools and universities, which would have an international teaching staff, where people would go to study from all over the world, and many would stay here. I know it's a utopia for now, but maybe a utopia that everyone can think about together in a more productive way. As far as regional universities are concerned, there are no regional universities. Universities can be located in regional centres, as Brulc showed. But this same university, if it's regional, does not mean that the hierarchy of knowledge and quality must be lower than the national university. It has to meet the same criteria and, like all universities, it has to work in the same way to get between 100, 200, 300, 400, 500 of the best in the world. If the University of Gorica, the New City, anywhere, does not have these goals, regionalism does not help it. Regional does not mean in terms of the regional framework, but it means not only that local students will study there, I hope that they will go elsewhere from Gorica - and they are already going - or from New City, but I expect others to come to Gorica. So this debate on regionalism is completely wrong. Therefore, I remind you that it is right to set up a law and an agency that will drown this if we ever agree with it, we can also realize that we will have many universities and that we will have many professors from home and abroad and many students from home and abroad. To be, in fact, what we call a knowledge society and then recognizable. I'm not sure that's going to happen soon, but with this law we can do it and we're going this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u267	Thank you. Mr. Magaina.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u268	Nice greeting to all in attendance! I've already called before, and it appears that the technique has failed. I don't want to be the last discusser, but it'd be better if it was the minister, anyway. I'm not going to say anything completely new, but I'm going to take a few things that convinced me, not just about the law itself, the law itself brings really good solutions and it's appropriate to accept it, but also about the agency itself. In the beginning, I was somehow on the side of those who wanted to expand this organ. The idea of a composition that would include these and these social groups, interesting, academic, non-academic. However, in deepening and understanding this agency itself, we find that the number is not crucial. This number must be such that the body is operational. A key argument why I support this amendment on the Agency is that the Agency will not be a delegation forum, a representative body of some interest groups. These are independent experts who will have to work as autonomously as possible. That's how it's written. This is the second moment, which I think is crucial, so to speak, it is written that members of the agency are not and must not be bound to instructions. Their autonomous status, their reputations, their references are a key moment in how this body will work. However, the number must be such as to ensure the operationality of this body, and I think that, just as the Government has presented the matter and explained it, it stands and that is why I support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u269	Thank you. Any interest after the debate? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby end this agenda item, and I also interrupt the 9th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 7.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u270	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, I ask for your hearing in the Chamber. We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting device, which means that an orange light must burn on the right hand side of the card. We're moving on to break three. Agenda item - Third Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Border Surveillance under the ordinary procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present. It's 78 votes against no one. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Border State Control Act. We're voting. The vote is under way. 79 Members and Members are present. It's 79 votes against no one. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to break 11. Agenda item - Defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the System of Payments in the Public Sector within the framework of the cut-off procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 16. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? He doesn't? Please, Dr. Vinko Gorenak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u271	Thank you very much. The amendment before us, according to our assessment, satisfies the Constitutional Court's decision, raises the salaries of judges, but not as the government's coalition intended. We are convinced that the adoption of this amendment is also in the interest of the coalition at this time, so I invite you to accept it, for a fundamental reason, because the situation has changed significantly since the Government or the Minister negotiated with the unions until this law was passed in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At the time we had our first rebalancing, then we have already adopted a second balance, and today we have, as you know, a different, more acute macroeconomic and financial situation in the country. Yesterday we had Gorenje, today we have Mura and tomorrow we'll have no idea what. In such situations, when Slovenian workers fight for those basic salaries, so enormously increase wages for judges of beginners, even for 7 pay grade or 28%, is not a responsible act. Since this is not a responsible act, I urge you to support our amendment. Furthermore, I would like to warn you, given that we are now in the full composition, but we were not in the morning, that the judiciary has already responded to the call of the party Zares. It also responded to the debates in the National Assembly and made it clear that the actions brought against the State were brought by individual judges - by the way, let me point out that one action is already legal, as reported by the media - that the judiciary also made a clear message in this context: "No, we do not want to negotiate." In fact, they said they were ready for some kind of agreement or settlement. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u272	Comrade Gorenak, explanation of the voice, not inviting others, nor representing the views of others. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u273	Yes, yes, it's purely in context, purely in the context of our amendment. Of course that means, "we're ready to give up some court procedure and costs, and we want money." This means that the judges are still living outside some real context of this country, the real situation in this country, and that the National Assembly is the only one capable of putting them on the real ground. There is no way we can talk about the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court’s decision does not refer to 7 pay grade, so it does not appear to be referenced. I call on you to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u274	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice in your own name? Please, Mr. Victory Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, like my colleagues, will support this amendment. The amendment makes sense, because what our judges are doing is unwarranted. They live in one of their worlds and do not care about what is out of their golden circles; and this is not right. The government allows it, which is not right. That's what they say. The government is incompetent. The judges are blackmailing. I mean, it's a weird thing in this world. On the other hand, our judges are not really responsible for anything. I think that if the government had to do something, it should first and foremost introduce the substantive responsibility of judges for wrong judgments, just as the German and Austrian courts do. Because as much damage as the Slovenian judges do, they are not being done jointly by the entire European Union's Central Court of Justice. And as little as ours do, no one does. So it's no wonder that at that time they pushed that German controller after two months to go home so he wouldn't find more pigs than he'd already found. That's why I think it's right to support this amendment, because giving in to judges, giving in to truckers, giving in to doctors, giving in to all those who force themselves into the government is an unacceptable thing. Moreover, that judges are suing their own country - I mean that, it is beyond all reason and logic. I think we should let those judges go right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice Lucky Friend. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Dear President! Of course, we will not support the law, but the amendment makes sense to support it. For if we look only at the fact that a permanent mandate allows essentially carefree work to the judges, without any responsibility, that none of the judges today have been held accountable for unquality work, and that many files of outstanding cases have already been removed from the closet, and today you will increase these gentlemen's salaries - or the Minister says that she will not burden the budget, because some judges will retire after natural fluctuations, but that is not the solution. But tomorrow you're going to give her an extra huge amount of work! Why don't you cut your salary to those directors who are under your wing? That's what I asked you before, but you didn't answer. Slovenian railways, electricity, public institutions, Telekom The judges also have more wages than your prime minister! Then doctors don't talk about bank directors and others. Besides wages, they also have salary supplements, they have gold cards, they have benefits with service cars and other benefits that they enjoy. There find the money you need to pay the judges. Don't throw that on the taxpayers' shoulders. And there's something else I'd like to say. A trial within a reasonable period of time. This is actually a legal right for "vip lodge" for those who have relationships and acquaintances. For a normal mortal, it's not like that. I would like to see four hours of debate in the National Assembly for those patients who still have hope, economic patients who have the hope of recovery. I'm talking about Mura, I'm talking about Myp, I'm talking about companies that are still hoping the state will save them. We've already buried a lot of people. It's already been a funeral. I speak for Droga, Kolinska, I speak for a number of companies that have the name of Slovenia around the world, and the country has not had enough hearing here to have four hours of debate for workers in the National Assembly, as we have today as judges. It's a shame! People who have no right to get paid will not understand you, certainly not with that move.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u278	An explanation of the voice of the Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, then I will open another round of debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u279	Thank you so much for saying that. This morning, in the context of the discussion of this item on the agenda, at the request of the SDS Group, we sent to all Members the reply that the President of the Slovenian Judicial Society, Mrs Janja Roblek, forwarded to our open letter concerning the actions of judges, lawyers and prosecutors. Just so that we don't get the wrong interpretations, wrong quotes, and even though we all have this letter in front of us, I think that was, unfortunately, done today in explaining the voice. Therefore, I would like to read again that part of this letter, which speaks about what they wrote in the Slovenian Judicial Society, I think this is the last sentence: "Despite the individual actions of the judges, the Slovenian Judicial Society will support efforts to find solutions that will satisfy both parties in the dispute." In short, we understand this dictatorship as a positive message, because the Slovenian judiciary was one that brought a large part of the negotiations during the time of the strike and also during the negotiations with the Government. We will not support the amendment. However, we have said today that, after the dialogue has been established, when it has been taken into account or is likely to be followed by a decision of the Constitutional Court in Parliament and a proposal to harmonise wages, we also expect the judges to conduct moral and ethical conduct with regard to these brought actions, for which we no longer see the true ground.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Do you still want to explain your voice? [[So.]] I'm asking you to sign up. But I'm not gonna ask you to explain your voice, you know that. The word is Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u281	Thank you. Of course, I will support the amendment tabled by our Group of Members. Indeed, the salaries were the basis for determining the wage ratios in the public sector. Now this change is going to break down, and although the minister feels that this will not be the case, she will certainly face it very soon. It is paradoxical that when judges are granted their wishes, they change the law, instruct, and also sue the country. At least that's what you could call it. With the novel you also eliminate the variable part, which, in the previous term, proved to be positive after the amendment, because despite the sentence, the backlogs were speedily resolved, and very simply, the more appropriate in this case gets more. You have made a different decision, the work performance from now on will no longer be important. And the Constitutional Court had no comments on this, so I don't understand why you've changed that. It is clear that judges will never be satisfied, but it is also clear from the fact that in 2007 and 2008 we have already raised their salaries for one wage class, but of course there has never been an end to it; they have always wanted more, so today this proposal. As it is said, I will support our amendment because I think it is in compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u282	Thank you very much. An explanation for Dr. Vinko Gorenak's voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u283	I can also tell you, on my behalf, that this amendment must be supported; it must be supported because the Constitutional Court has not ordered anywhere to raise the salary for seven pay grade judges to begin with. The government coalition or government has so simply concluded an agreement with the judges, and it would be right to make such a deal with someone else, such as those on the road today. It should be further said that by raising wages you guarantee no independence of the judiciary, as the government coalition claims, but in fact it is an independent judiciary to which we swear ourselves, guaranteed by independent decision-making. This does not mean that the amount of the salary in independent decision-making also consists of questions such as whether to work or not, to strike or not, that the sentence of the court is the one that is the only one in Slovenia that has been portrayed by state officials by law, probably no one else has ever struck among officials. But what is most problematic is, of course, that judges who have been good, who have worked, who have done an increased amount of work and everything else, are equal, equal, with this law with judges who have not worked and who have more or less struck. This means that you reward the wrong and, of course, punish work with such a bill. This will result in a single grey balance sheet, a gray average that will have only one great effect, and this is a larger judicial backlog, which is not in favour, probably, of anyone in this country. And so it would be wise for you to reconsider this amendment and support it. I'll do it myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u284	Thank you very much. I am reopening my application for explanations of vote on my own behalf, and such are the requirements of the bench. The word is given by Zvonko Černač, an explanation of the vote in his own name. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u285	This amendment must be supported by the judges themselves and, of course, I will also support it. It will give effect to the decision of the Constitutional Court, but it will not be as strongly opposed to the public as it is if this amendment is not adopted. It is important to be aware of the situation in which this law is adopted. It should be borne in mind that, as in all professions, there are good and bad among judges. Unfortunately, the bad ones are a little more among their officials, who are weakening the reputation of justice in this country. If this amendment is not adopted, public awareness and opposition to justice, which is undoubtedly ineffective, will be much greater than if this amendment were adopted. This law, which increases the salaries of judges, will in no way increase the effectiveness of justice. This law will no longer enhance the independence of the judiciary, which is a constitutional category. This law will not change the constitutionally guaranteed right to be tried within a reasonable period of time, which is at any given time to many citizens and citizens. And for that reason there is no reason to object to a solution that somehow allows [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] regulation of the situation or makes it possible to respect the decision of the Constitutional Court and does not create a major public revolt in these situations when many other, much more important issues need to be addressed. [[...]] I will support this amendment on my own. I think this would be a wise decision by this National Assembly, and I hope it will also be supported by the ruling coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u286	Thank you. Explanation of voice. Franco Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u287	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will not support the amendment because the "reality show" proves that some fellow Members are very afraid of an effective judiciary. That's understandable. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] They're afraid of him, especially those [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u288	Peace in the hall. At the same time, there is no controversy in the explanation of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u289	That's an explanation. I'll tell you why I'm going to vote against the amendment. Because this law is feared by those who do not really want to prove today that this government is essentially responsible for the lawsuits, for the sentence of judges and even for the high wages of companies. No! No! This government is the first to downsize the meetings that has lowered the prizes that have lowered wages. And this government has inherited from the previous government, from Mr Virant, a situation that has led to a strike and protests and also to lawsuits by judges. That is why today we have a fine opportunity, by rejecting this amendment, to remedy the situation we unfortunately inherited from the previous set.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u291	Thank you very much. In the event that we do not support this amendment, we are the ones who will bear a great responsibility to the public and, last but not least, we will smile that we have succumbed to the blackmail of judges. Today, it has been heard that they have been saying that this will prevent effective justice. And I'm asking all of you whether or not I'm wondering if he knows where they've been. If the media had not reported this, there would in fact have been no other exploitation of their effects or the results of their work. In the previous term, Minister Virant has long negotiated that he has reached a point where all sectors have reached an agreement, except for those judges who have been blackmailing all the time. In fact, he wanted only to achieve that: for good work, it is better to pay than for bad work. And this law, which is obviously now to be adopted by the National Assembly at the time of the amendment's rejection, will bring it back: for bad work the same payment as for good work. This is a bad journey, and I particularly hope that the Minister and the Government are aware that in the short term this will result in a renegotiation with other industries, I assure you, if not earlier, we will be able to deal with this in a few months and then we will come back into a spiral from which there will be no return. This law or amendment prevents such a thing from happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u292	Thank you very much. I'm reopening my application for explanations of vote. The explanation of the vote is given by Franci Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u293	In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support this amendment, because we are confident that a basic text will be adopted, which will give a very wrong signal to our citizens and citizens, because it will signal that you are again in the public administration in this pay system, although with some delay, substantially raise wages. As we have confirmed and advocated in all the debates so far, that the time of tightening the belt, not increasing wages, we think that the matter is inappropriate in such a constitutional text, and if we follow this agreement in part with this minor correction, we think that at a time when wages in another part of the public sector will have to be reduced if we want to make a public statement in this loving country, I think it would be right that such an amendment should be adopted, not a basic text, as I have already said, with a very wrong message for today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u294	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the proposed amendment has not been adopted for second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. [[...]] I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u295	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that the Government is buying the judiciary in advance by this law, so that when it is no longer in government positions and when prosecutions against them begin, the judges will have already been bought in the future, either to lose the files or to lay down the files or to forgive them for their backs, because the deposit, which is smart, reasonable and within three years of such pay, is raised so that the judge can peacefully defend the exoneration judgment or either to set up documents or to lose or to have something spilled on them with coffee that they could no longer read. They have a permanent mandate, which is inconclusive, especially at such a level of knowledge, because in Germany, when our judges or lawyers come with a college degree, they send them there in the third year, so that first of all those covers from the former regime, which is still remaining, in the law school, get rid of them, then have absolute immunity, have both criminal immunity and civil, that is to say materially, they can do whatever they want, but they are also further protected. It's one weird animal to be a judge. It seems to be the best thing in the world, only the cosorogies or unicorns are so protected and something as untouchable as the Slovenian judges. What would you say if you can't be a tycoon, at least be a judge, 'cause correlations can get pretty good sometimes. I say this from my own experience, which I have very much in court. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u296	Don't you think you're going a little too far in these judge convictions? Please limit yourself to explanations of vote, but not to qualifications of a particular professional group that you like or may not like. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u297	Mr President, it's not about who I like or who I don't like. I can tell you that there are quite a few judges that I like very much, but I don't like their work. So I say, given the experience about, let's say it can be judged in due course. My personal case, the police structure, I was dragged to court for 15 years until an honest judge or an honest judge came along and found out. But 15 years, gentlemen, I'm not going to tell you which political faction was or was a political group that was the same, then the SPD or the party to the social reconstruction, or what it was called, and then the United List. Even with various other structures, not just that, last time those bills were there, when they accused me of selling national goods as my own. There is even one lady sitting in the back seat, who was involved, and Mr Bohinc, your member at the time. I think these things are simple. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u298	Dear colleague Jelinčič, when I interrupted you, you broke the microphone yourself, so your time began to count again and we checked you. You've only got 40 minutes left and you've run out of time or you've exceeded four seconds. You've spent your time. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u299	Mr President, I didn't. You were talking in the middle. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u300	You can't go on. You've spent your time and four more seconds. Explanation of the vote by Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Since the amendment has been rejected by coalition parliamentary groups, this time I inform you on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors that we will not support the law. I also call for the non-support of the law by the government coalition. Of course, some things need to be explained to those who did not listen to me this morning because they were not here. A government coalition raises the judges of the novice from 40 to 47 pay grade. The university professor is a professor and a university special professor is classified in the 42nd and 47th salary classes. Whoever you are, like our president and anyone else, you know what that means, when that can be achieved. So what does the government coalition do? That those who have been trained who have been trained to be judges at all are lower than the judges of the beginners on the first day. And it is unfair and reasonable to expect the university sphere to tell its own, and not only to protest, to demand the same position, because it has had the same situation in recent years, as judges say, beginners, or to compare them with specialists' doctors. The government, in its proposal for a law, is extremely misleading not to say a lie, and I will use the term deception. He says the MP has a salary of 5,000 euros, a minister of 5,000 200, and a supreme judge of 3680, a lie. The Vice-President of the National Assembly has 5,000 euros, as far as I know, but the Members don't. And of course, EUR 3680 is also incorrect data. These are completely inaccurate data that helps to mislead the public, which is not correct and incorrect. Of course, it must also be said that in this morning's debate I spoke about a permanent mandate and that no one ever loses it. You told me it wasn't true, and you listed a number of things that were written in the laws, how is it possible for a judge to be sanctioned for some kind of misbehaviour? I've asked you to list five judges who have lost their mandate. You haven't listed one for me because he's not here. Of course it's not, it's a logical thing. But it's true that when they get to a point, they go to a lawyer. Therefore, as of today, the call to support the amendment of the law, which is also under way. But the worst part is that it is not permissible for selected castes in this country to raise wages when workers are not allowed to survive. It's an unacceptable treatment. Be sober. There's only a few seconds left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak, of course, that wasn't an explanation for the voice. Please apply for explanations of vote on your own behalf. Explanation of the vote in its own name, Milenko Ziherl. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u303	Thank you for your word. I don't think now that the law has not been adopted, an amendment that will ease the issue a little bit, I can't support it. There are a number of reasons for that. In the forecast of the National Assembly, we repeatedly point to the oath of judges and judges for a permanent term of office. I want to know what this oath contains. If you're suing the country, it's like a bite in the hand that feeds you. I have never had to think about suing my employer in my work so far. Although I was always nervous about the salary that was too small, I didn't even think of suing. A comparison is certainly in place, and today it has been published that managers in companies receiving state subsidies have reduced their salaries. In addition, a comparative study with the work of German judges showed that judges in Germany do much more and are on average paid less. At the same time, I'm afraid of chain reactions, because in other unions it's boiling, there's a promise of sentences. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Certainly, according to the example of the judges, there is also a promise of retrials. [[...]] And because of all the above, I can't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Marijan Pojbič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u305	The Honorable President. Marijan Pojbič, Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Vice-President of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliament, and also all members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will never vote in favour of a law that increases public spending in such a critical situation as the financial and economic crisis in the Republic of Slovenia. I will never vote for such a marriage, as I have already said. The Slovenian Democratic Party will never vote for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u306	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u307	Nothing's wrong. I've said exactly what I wanted to say and what I think is extremely important.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u308	Peace in the hall. No laughing, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u309	This coalition is trying to increase public spending during such a critical time. And that's what I'm going to say again. It's unacceptable. That's what's unacceptable. That's what's absolutely irresponsible. And if I keep going. You know very well that in Gorenje, people who work almost full-time earn 300 euros. Tell me, dear colleagues, whether you can laugh at this information as well. Can the government laugh at this information? That information that's accurate and you could hear it and it was written in the papers? I believe you have a lot of laughs, but I'm sure what you're laughing at right now is a disgrace to you and the current government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u310	No sermons, please, but an explanation for the voice. Voice explanation, Vito Rozjej, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u311	Thank you for your word. The matter we deal with today stems from the things that are enshrined in our constitution. However, it seems to me that those of the generation who co-created it, those who co-created this country, or at least imagined that they created it, are taking it much less seriously than we are of the generation for which, at least after those statements, this country was created. Therefore, it seems irresponsible to me that, today, following the decisions of the Constitutional Court, we continue to say that the judges who are officials are the third branch of the government that these judges are the branch. It's no industry, it's not public servants, it's officials, it's said by the Constitutional Court. In some ways they are just as responsible for the well-being of this country as we are. I admit that in recent times, at least in my opinion, these responsibilities do not show the wisest or not at all. Therefore, I also hope that all of our correspondence with the Judicial Society will bear fruit and that now that we remain their officers, I hope that they will recognise this functional status, they will act responsibly and calm the ball to say so. I myself, unlike other Members, what bad experiences with such or other courts that would condemn me and send me to where I belong, like some other Members, have never been restricted. That is why I will make it so much easier now to support this law to get a law that will follow our constitutional order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u313	In the face of an economic crisis, in a reasonable political environment, it would certainly be the first argument to adopt or oppose the adoption of an individual law, as to what it entails in dealing with the economic crisis. And that is why this law cannot be supported in any way. Look, you're taking all the money, extremely large funds, millions, tens of millions of euros, which was meant to eliminate the judicial deficits, and you're pouring them into the balance sheet for everyone, regardless of the amount of work they're doing, regardless of the quality of the work they're doing, regardless of the knowledge they're doing. Is this in the public interest? What does that mean in practice? This means that there will be even less legal order, even more disorder in the recovery of everything that businesses need for their existence, even more unpaid discipline. And this will happen to citizens and citizens, on the one hand, and on the other hand to small and medium-sized enterprises, the most vital layer that is certainly the engine of development in each country, and which does not have those levers that are, say, the largest traders who can achieve their interest through other levers. Quality, well-functioning justice is the first and fundamental condition of a quality well-functioning market economy. The law before us, however, is because of the balance sheet, because it removes all incentives for good work, directed in the opposite direction and essentially reveals the deep anti-development essence of the existing coalition. I'm sorry it is, but I'm sure none of us will help you with that. I'll vote against it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, I'm reopening the application. Explanation of the vote in its own name Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u315	This law cannot be supported. It is regrettable that an amendment has not been supported to sort through this situation, particularly in these circumstances. With this law, you raise the salaries of judges, introduce a balance sheet, do not increase efficiency. Effectiveness will deteriorate, except perhaps in the area where judges were extremely effective a few months ago when they awarded over several million Euros to bankruptcy managers within a few days. In all other cases, efficiency will be poorer. This will violate the constitutional rights set out in Article 23 of the Constitution for many Slovenian citizens and citizens and will talk about the right to be tried within a reasonable time. And this is the fundamental attribute that this National Assembly should especially do in these circumstances. It's unacceptable for people to wait 10, 15 years for justice. It is unacceptable that the major economic offences, the crime that occurs in the country's sub-substances, take place for a few years, so long that they are eventually obsolete. And with this law, the situation will not change in any way. One more thing about when these problems arose. This is Mrs Janja Roblek, President of the Judicial Society: "Requirements for the abolition of this illegality in respect of salaries date back to 2002 and a gentlemen's agreement was concluded in 2004 which was not enforced." I assume that this gentleman, who concluded this agreement, was former Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Rob. At that time these problems, as stated in the letter of the judiciary, arose. No judge has lost his job in the last year. At the time when the work was lost by 30,000 citizens and citizens, you have appointed several ten judges in the last year as a court of law. It's supposed to be a crisis for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Ivan Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Now that you've rejected the amendment, I can't support this law in any way. This is explained by the following findings. Slovenia belongs to the very top of the countries with the greatest judicial backlog. Why: because of the bad part of the judges. How many companies have gone bankrupt or how many companies have failed because of the poor work of judges or too slow work of judges. How many personal and family tragedies we have in Slovenia due to the poor or too slow work of judges. I do not say that all the judges are bad, they are good judges, but unfortunately there are too many who are not motivated, who do not want to do as the Constitution imposes on them, but also expectations. And now with this law, we reward those who have not worked and will not work in the future. And of course, those who have worked harder to do so will now receive as much as those who do nothing, that those who have been demoted and that the backlogs will increase. This marriage is especially unjust to good judges and also to people. Not to mention those who really can't survive from week to week, except from month to month. And in such a situation, we now raise our salaries to the judges. I think here is the moral responsibility of all those who will now press the "yes" button. In the Slovenian Democratic Party and I, of course, will press the "against" button. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u318	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present. 45 votes against 33. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government proposes to the Assembly to adopt, on the basis of Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure, the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Law on the Public Sector Wage System. We're voting. The vote is under way. 65 Members and Members are present. It's 51 votes against 9. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judicial Service in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the bill would not be harmonised. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present. The vote was 50 to 30. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Defence in the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the bill would not be harmonised. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present. The vote was 50 to 30. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the State Prosecutor's Office following a reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 30. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure after a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 48. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. As the proposed amendment has not been adopted for second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 15. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 32. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to a representative of the Government who is a bill-maker if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Mr. Golobich, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u319	In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the third hearing be held at the same meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u320	Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 29. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Since the proposed decision has not been adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: "The draft law for third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 3. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - this is on questions from Members and Members. In line with the proposal of the President of the Government of Borut Pahor, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of the victory of Jelinčič Plmenite concerning the resolution of open border issues with the Republic of Croatia." Procedurally, first of all, Mr. Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u321	Thank you, Mr. President. At one of the previous meetings, I have warned you that the official language, the working language of this Parliament of Slovenia, which also has its own rules regarding the removal, is the name of Mr Jelinčič, the second name of the Parliament. If we had a Malian Member in this National Assembly, which would be written by Mali, we would not say that we would vote on an amendment or a proposal by Mali, but we would say Mali. The same applies to the surname of Noblemeniti- Tribality, Simonity-Simoniti, Mali-Malia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u322	Thank you for your warning. I will continue my dedication to the well-known linguists and sociolinguists, including colleague of the Victory of Jelinčič Nobleni. We're moving on. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Victory by Jelinčič Nobles on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u323	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Currently, Slovenia is ahead of a very important decision. Croats squeeze us at all ends, the Prime Minister is allowed to be intimidated from various ends and blackmail and Slovenia does not show well in this game. We have extremely bad legal experts, which appeared on the show yesterday, on national television when four so-called experts, of which one lady, who is the most important in our negotiating process, spoke such nonsense that man was afraid. I was afraid for Slovenia. And as it turns out, others aren't so afraid because they don't care. Brotherhood and unity are still in the blood, still brothers Croats, still going south, etc. They forgot we had our own country. This is no longer the Republic of Slovenia, just as it is still foolish to speak because some have not exceeded the republican frameworks, but is the state of Slovenia. And this country of Slovenia will soon disappear if we do not keep it. We don't. We don't. With the last things Mr Pahor has come up with along with Mrs Kosorje, it seems very bad. Today, we voted on seven proposals, on seven groups of reservations, on two committees, on finance and on the economy and on seven groups of reservations, and I must say that the noble coalition is this - two committees together, seven matters - in one hour and forty minutes confirmed and opened the door to the Croats. Of course, it was said that this was the agreement of Mr Pahor and Mrs Kosor. I think that such arrangements have already led to the loss of national territory in the history of the Slovenian people, and I think that this is once again a step in this direction. I therefore feel that it is imperative that we discuss this matter openly in the National Assembly. Honesty is something that in the National Assembly, especially the height of the Government - not known term. Honesty by the Government is not, is a lie, is a fraud, is a falsification of data, is the transmission of wrong data and stupidity reigns unfortunately also to a large extent in the National Assembly. Ignorance of history, especially lack of patriotism. I therefore feel that it is imperative that we discuss this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u324	Thank you very much. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. There were 33 votes against 48. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Zvonk Černač, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Zvonko Černač, to the question of Mr Zvonko Černač, on the Government's promises. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the member of the group. Blackbell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u325	In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the debate on the response of the Prime Minister. Although the President of the Government had a very difficult task yesterday, not one of his promises had been fulfilled in a year, yet he felt the need to speak more about these issues in the National Assembly. I think that this would be a good reason for us to support this debate. In this response, the Prime Minister of the Government has highlighted more than two major successes in the internal policy area of combating unemployment, probably a more virtual fight, as unemployment has increased by thirty thousand in the last year, and in the foreign policy area of success or regulating relations with Croatia's neighbour, where we have experienced the greatest fiasco in the last nineteen years. Then there's the human resources clean-up, the first time people dress up, then they're politically criminalized, and eventually they're replaced. Yesterday, we heard from the President of the Government that the Secretary-General, Mr Milan M. Cwickl, will have to explain thoroughly why the Government has replaced the Director of the Office for Relations with Religious Communities, saying that Mr Čepar will have to resolve and set up the political cadre, Mr Gulic, our former fellow Member and President of the Council of LDS. And it would be right, fellow citizens, to hear these thorough explanations here in the National Assembly. Such and other successes will, of course, lose the importance of other more important, serious questions. Questions such as where Slovenia is going during this period and which government will be able to cover the minus created by the current Government. At this point in the year, we are approaching almost 2 billion budget deficits, our gross social product will fall by 9%, our debt will increase to around EUR 5 billion by the end of the year, the number of unemployed is approaching 100,000. It would be right, colleagues and colleagues, to discuss these issues in the National Assembly, not only to discuss the privileges, the rights of those who have support in the current government structure, but also to discuss the problems of those who do not know whether they will still be able to go to work for 300, 400 euros tomorrow, and who do not know what they will pay their bills or feed and train their children in the coming months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u326	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member, the Council of Likar will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Milan Pogačnik, to the Council of Likar's question on the decision on the return of bullmastif dogs. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group Rado Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u327	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! The wolf changes hair. Never. The modified river could also apply to the two Bulmastifs, which were returned to the owner by a decision of the Ministry of Agriculture. Since this is primarily about the safety and health of citizens and citizens and because I have not received satisfactory answers to some questions, I propose, on behalf of the SDS Group, that we vote in favour of a broader debate on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u328	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Pursuant to the proposal of Mr Janez Ribič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Milan Pogačnik, to the question of Mr Ribič's delegation regarding the protection of citizens against attacks by dangerous dogs." Explanation of the vote on behalf of Parliamentary Group Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u329	Thank you for your word. So much talk and activity about some dogs, but it's so much more important than that. But because some no longer respect the rule of law and care little about the safety of people, the well-known example of the Bulmastifs of Atlas and Joa imposes a responsible debate on the functioning of state institutions and the judiciary, whether they are truly independent, and on the practice of artificial creation of all the more aggressive dogs. In this respect, I have asked the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food Milan Pogačnik a question. Why do the questions raised cry out after a public debate? Legal security and the sense that the country seeks justice are a condition of maintaining ethical vitality and the life optimism of the Slovenian people. When a person feels that justice as the last guarantee of justice does not follow this idea, he becomes recalculated, selfish, and also destructive or goes to the field of discouragement and suicide. The increasing frequency of criminal convictions, presumptively criminal, has already been pointed out by the highest moral authorities in Slovenia. Recently, our poet, the world famous academic Tomaž Solomon, gave a dramatic attention to the situation in court. You can read in the Evening on August 20th this year. However, there are doubts as to the correctness and fairness of certain positions of the Veterinary Administration, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the judiciary that the Bulmastif case has been brought to the attention of the observer. In doing so, we know that he is in criminal proceedings, Simone Solomon and Vide Čadonic Špelič. Everyone enjoyed or enjoyed the support of Minister Pogačnik. In the ongoing debate, the Minister avoided substantive issues and brought it into the field of irrelevant legal details, which have major effects. Therefore, I would like to invite Minister Milan Pogačnik to return to the essence of my question, or to recognise unacceptable works with all consequences, and to accept objective responsibilities for the conduct of the ministry's proceedings in this case. I expect from Justice Minister Aleš Zalar, as well as the entire Slovenian public, to be identified as soon as possible until the appeal of academic Solomon. For several reasons, public debate on the artificial creation of new dogs is also necessary. It is quite clear that there are increasing misunderstandings between man and some of the stronger and more vulnerable breeds, unfortunately also tragic. [[....]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] And why do you keep doing that? [[...]] In the Slovenian People's Party, we support a broader debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u330	Thank you very much. In his own name, he has the word mag. Borut Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u331	Thank you very much. I will not support this debate because the simple words were too much and the actions were too little. However, those colleagues from those two groups who had just advertised, I recall the proposal for a law that I proposed in the previous term, the title was the Law on Responsible Possession of Dogs. For such cases, he had concrete, effective solutions because he gave priority to human life ahead of everything else. Unfortunately, those of you who share the Levites with us today were then pressed against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u332	Thank you very much. You want to explain your vote on behalf of yourself, but there is no debate. Please, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u333	Thank you. I'd like to say that I wasn't in the National Assembly at the time. However, the issue of human security means so much to me that I also want this subject to be discussed in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u334	Thank you very much. The fact that he said that he was not in the National Assembly is a well - known fact. Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 41. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Rudolph Petan, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, to the question of the proposed freezing of pensions. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Justice Minister Aleš Zalar to the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak concerning the awards of the bankruptcy manager from 1.10.2008 to 31.8.2009. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the delegation of Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u335	Thank you very much. This time, of course, I expect the support of the coalition Members, just as I was involved in the committee. If there was no such support, you lied to me on the committee, of course. But this is the next question. I have proposed a general debate because we have already identified the following matter on the Committee. On 1.10.2009 the so-called bankruptcy law was amended. At that time, he stipulated that bankruptcy awards would be set in a different way, at the rate of a percentage of the value of the assets. The following happened: during the period until 22 November 2008, in a month and a half or more, in a month and 25 days, Slovenian courts awarded all bankruptcy managers €130,000 and some. All the months ahead are here somewhere, about 100,000 euros, 80,000 euros and so on, until the month of May when they jumped a little. In this mandate, we have already adopted an amendment to the bankruptcy law, in which, despite opposition to the opposition, we have adopted that the new tariff, i.e. the new tariff setting for bankruptcy managers, is also applicable to old bankruptcys before 1. Ten. 2008 And look at the fragment of what happened. During the 20 days of June, independent judges, of course deciding very independently, decided that Slovenia's bankruptcy managers owed €300,000 in bankruptcy awards. The bankruptcys of those workers that we know are on the road today. To make the measure even more full, Slovenian judges have taken advantage of an extremely embarrassing move, let's say an awkward move, at least for now I'll call it, Minister Zalar, who is 1. Seven. 2009 said, "I'll limit the bankruptcy awards." This, of course, I think, should not be said in public, but this should be done. But well, that's what the minister decided. That's what he did. And what have some Slovenian judges done? Look, at the time of 1. Seven. 2009 to 11. Seven. 2009, two weeks, two Saturdays are in the middle of it, but it's only seven working days. Listen to the number, two million 300,000 euros or 20 times what was estimated on average by then. I'm asking for your support. Just like you supported me on the board, I expect support this time. If she's not here, of course I'll think of my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u336	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice in your own name? [[Yeah.]] Vito Rojej, explanation of voice in your own name. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u337	I have to explain my voice so I don't have the feeling that I'm a liar, but maybe I'll open someone else's eyes, my glasses, and something else that makes him stare. Of course, we're on a similar committee. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u338	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u339	But there was a talk about information that the Justice Department also provided us. [[...]] What we decide to do in this vote, of course, does not have the link that Mr Gorenjak sees. I wouldn't want you to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u340	There's no controversy, Comrade Rose. Please. How will you vote?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u341	At least from the doctor's mouth, I will vote against this proposal because he himself knows that these things are unrelated. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u342	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Joseph Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u343	Thank you very much. About this robbery of desperate and outraged Slovenian workers who were first imprisoned by companies for non-solid business, we heard about the bankruptcy of the new Stelarska, they were not paid any pension insurance fees, and then they were desperate and angry and angry, including rightly angry workers, heard about this robbery that happened with the help of some Slovenian judges. And if you refuse to discuss this robbery, it is a robbery, then in some ways you are the employers for such decisions that have been made. And don't be surprised if one day the workers will come before the entrance of a court, as they did before Gorenje's entrance, before Moore's entrance and then explain that they don't recognize Semolic's regime union anymore because he lost his identity, he lost his confidence. And they'll probably say there's some judges who don't enjoy legitimate trust. And I'm afraid of the consequences if you put your head in the sand and you refuse such an initiative. We are responsible that we speak here in Parliament about these anomalies of Slovenian society, in some systems, that people will be able to trust that at least some parts of this society are aware of the strong irregularities that have occurred and do not support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u344	Thank you very much. An explanation of the vote on your behalf, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u345	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I didn't ask for procedural, even though my last name was mispronounced because it seems less important to me. However, I would like to clarify the following that, of course, the coalition Members would know what they are deciding. It's the exact same thing we had on the board, of course, it's that matter. The data I presented was delivered by Minister Zalar. It's no secret. The data is available to you. That's one thing. Minister Zalar is alone [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u346	My colleague, Dr. Gorenak, I stopped Roger talking about this, and I must also warn you that there is no controversy. I prevented him from having an argument, including you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u347	No, I'm explaining we're talking about the same matter. I don't know if you understand me. The same matter was also discussed by Minister Zalar, who was careful about what he did, and the judges who so decided reported to the Kosovo Commission. [[...]] Yes, for God's sake, it's the Minister who suspected something was wrong. And so we have to do something in this area. He even called on the Attorney General, the Attorney General, to say whether there was a suspicion of any corruption. Therefore, it is also certainly right for Members of the National Assembly to be defined to do so. But that's enough data. We're talking about the same thing, and that's why I'm looking for your support for this discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u348	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Mir Petk, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz Križanič, to the question of the Peace Petk on rents for the premises of Durs and tax offices." Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Miro Petek Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u349	Thank you very much. That's right. I have asked the Minister of Finance the question of whether to rent the premises of the Ministry of Finance or the Tax Administration. For an illustration, I also presented the case of Dravograd, the Tax Office in Dravograd, where the monthly rent per square metre is EUR 8.94 or more than EUR 15,000 per month and an additional EUR 540 per garage. And this is in Koroška, where real estate is very cheap, where rentals are also extremely cheap. This means an annual level of €180,000. In order to be even more ironic, the Dravograd Tax Administration moved from its own premises to rental premises and did not sell or rent these own 600 square metres. Thus, every month we lose an additional EUR 3,300 or in these good two years, which are empty, we have lost EUR 128.000. In response to my question, Minister France Križanič also said: "The Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia has 52 rented premises. 7 premises are in a financial lease and 26 have our own premises," and continued, "the average monthly rent in 2009 is €455,000 or almost €456,000. For 2008, it was €368,000 and €341,000 for 2007. So only in 2009 will the Tax Administration pay 100,000 euros more rents per month. At the annual level, this means around €1.2 million, rather than just the opposite. To pay EUR 1.2 million less at the annual level, given the situation in the real estate market, as real estate and also rentals of commercial premises have decreased considerably. This clearly shows that this Government will openly support real estate tycoons, so of course I propose a debate on this subject as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u350	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present. The vote was 30 to 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Branko Marinič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Public Administration Irma Pavlinič Krebs to the question of the question of employment in public administration by Branko Marinič. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Branko Marinič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u351	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to you all. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, it is estimated that, due to the incorrectness in the reply of the Minister of Public Administration, my question is how much more public officials are employed in the public administration between December 2008 and August 2009. Unfortunately, in the magnetogram I reviewed, it was also not possible to see that, despite twice repeating the same question, the answer was appropriate. As a result, the Slovenian public is confused as well as Members and Members of Parliament. We don't have an exact answer and we don't know if this number has increased by 1,000, by 1,500, 2,000. It's a question of unexplained answers. In this regard, it would, of course, be right for civil servants to share fate with employees, with workers in companies. We are convinced that it is not possible to compare the period at which Minister Virant led this ministry very successfully. His work was also widely viewed by the current coalition as extremely good. Last but not least, many other experts assured him of this. But my question went not in this direction at the time of Minister Virant's leadership, but only during the last year. What was going on, what was the actual number of employees in the public sector? This should be emphasized in particular by the fact that we want and we want the competent ministry to respond in a timely manner, because the heads will fly at the exact time of these public sector workers, when you simply realize that there is no money for so many civil servants. Here we want to be right, here we want to help the government and the current coalition to get some real numbers so that the government can act in a timely manner. Last but not least, we can say that in this House we have also adopted the first national budget balance, with the budgetary consumer, the anti-corruption commission, was an increase of more than 100% of the budget and because there was a justification that the budget line is also increasing due to an increase in the number of public officials, which is contrary to what the Ministry and Government, of course, are doing. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u352	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Mr Ivan Grill, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Ms Majda Širca Ravnikar to the question of Ivan Grill on the choice of recipients for co-financing of programme content in the field of printed media, radio and television programmes and electronic publications." I believe you wish to explain your vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you for that temptitude, speed. Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill, on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u353	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just got up so you wouldn't miss me. In September, the Ministry of Culture concluded a call for programme content co-financing, which was attended by 346 different projects from different media. The Commission, which selected these programme content, chose only 50 of these arrivals initially. It is surprising, however, that there was no choice among these 50 media that have a great deal of obedience, a great deal of reading that has education, music, everything that is socially beneficial. It is also surprising that, following the complaints, 18 others were subsequently placed in this quota, who, after the initial selection, were placed across the 100th city. And here it appears that the work of this commission, which, in other words, referred to professionalism, professionalism, impartiality, political neutrality, has not been so far. I was also approached by representatives of some media who had run for this call, and they were rejected with a simple explanation that their project was not original enough and that it was not demanding. Of course, I also forwarded these findings to the Minister. On the question of whether any political pressure, lobbying, had also been exerted on the Commission, it was understood from its response that the Commission had had a hard work to bring together a number of pressures, probably political ones. Finally, when I suggested that the debate be held, there was no need to understand the opposition, for it itself had found that it would make sense to have a general debate on this important issue, so that it could contribute, so that the next calls would be better and not least, that even the rules or legislation could be changed that would prevent the Commission from doing bad work. I therefore hope that, in the coalition, there will now be a hearing to discuss this issue in general, in order to determine whether the work of this Commission has been quality, professionally, politically impartial and to ensure that the media preparing useful software content has been co-financed, because it has not been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u354	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Ziherl, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Milan Pogačnik, to the question of food prices. An explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group Milenko Ziherl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u355	Thank you for your word. I believe that this debate needs to be supported, for yesterday, the Minister and I have already found that the time has been wasted so that we can come to a conclusion under the Rules of Procedure. Furthermore, I think that such a public debate would be necessary as one of the public debates on the new strategy for the development of agriculture. In addition, I am referred to this data from the field, interviews in the field that increasingly point to the poor position of the farmer or to the irregularities in building or increasing prices in the chain from the farmer to the processor, the shop and the buyer, where the first and last members of the one bearing the most burden. Since they can happen among farmers, they say they are not organized, they are not connected, but I wonder where their housing organisations are, so it can happen, as it was in 1988, that someone with a vision, courage, like Mr Ivan Oman, will appear again, and will organise farmers who will share their crops for free. Then we will see what the big supermarkets will say, which are probably too many already in Slovenia for this high purchasing power. It would be a good thing, and the Minister didn't know what kind of instruments he had. Perhaps it would suggest sending more inspectors to the meat supply chain because they suspect an irregularity where numbers are lost, where traceability is. We have been alerted to this on several occasions on the Committee on Agriculture. So the whole bunch of irregularities that have left farmers and buyers in a bad situation, the food processing industry has been on the verge of profitability for 20 years, facing other problems. If a new strategy is to improve the state of agriculture in the country, such a debate is certainly necessary. I therefore appeal to colleagues and colleagues to support this debate by voting in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u356	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 to 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I conclude this agenda item, and I interrupt the 9th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you very much and very much!
