ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I'm starting with the 11th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Eva Irgl, Janez Janša, Villa Trophynik, Miran Györek, Milenko Ziherl, Miro Petek, Jožef Jerovšek, Ljubo Germič, Roberto Battelli and Jakob Preseknik. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 22. AND 23. It's a day's work. Following the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, we will carry out a joint introductory presentation, within the framework of the 22nd and 23rd agenda items, on the updated draft budget for 2010 and the 2011 supplementary draft budget. The Government submitted the supplementary budget to the National Assembly for its consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the supplementary draft budgets. The word is from Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u2	Honourable Members and Members, Honourable President of the National Assembly. The draft budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and 2011 are complemented before you. They shall be prepared in accordance with Article 159 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I will explain the main reasons and differences in the supplementary budget proposals later, as I would like to point out at the outset some macroeconomic indicators that were the basis for the preparation of both budgets and their additions. The latest macroeconomic forecasts of the international institutions this year predict a fall in gross domestic product in most of our most important trading partners. The key factor in this year's economic downturn is the consequences of the financial crisis, which, through tightening lending conditions, more expensive loans and a fall in trust between economic operators, has transferred to other sectors of the economy and has led to a marked decline in international exchange and is mainly linked to our economy. The stability of the economic situation in some major developed economies indicates an exit from the recession, similar to that of the Slovenian economy. Together with active fiscal policy, we have achieved an increase in demand, and we hope that this will also restore economic optimism and more stable economic growth. Nevertheless, this growth is once again fragile, uncertain and so for 2010 we anticipate that there will be a need to continue to lead an active fiscal policy, to stimulate economic growth with a sovereign debt, and when it is clear that private investment will start to fuel demand again, we will also start with intensive exit strategies. Due to the temporary nature of most anti-crisis measures and the expected shift in labour market adjustment, economic growth in the euro area countries in 2010 is expected to be quite modest. Here is the biggest fear of a state-driven form of economic crisis in the letter W due to the withdrawal of some incentives for demand for cars. When measures that have stimulated the growth of demand for new cars are withdrawn, at least temporary deterioration of economic activity, which will also have a relatively strong impact on the Slovenian metal and processing industry, may be followed. In most of our trading partners from South-West and Eastern Europe, gross domestic product decline and gradual recovery are expected this year, which is not expected to start until 2010 and 2011. The diversification of our exports, from which we expected a relatively stable demand for Slovenia, has nevertheless proved to be limited in the context of the current financial and global crisis, saying that there is a limited range of demand on all relevant markets, no matter how different they are, at the same time a decline in demand. From here on out, our problems with economic growth, employment and, ultimately, also with a fiscal balance. Our latest official debt deficit report, where we define or predict the financial movements of the whole "state" sector, foresees deficits slightly different from what we are planning today. This is how we estimate today that the deficit of the "state" sector will amount to 5.9% of gross domestic product in 2009, will be lower by a tenth in 2010 and will be 5.8% of gross domestic product, and will be lower by just one percentage point of GDP in 2011 and will be 4.8% of GDP. This is the deficit of all public cash registers. It is important to be aware that when the transition takes place and the crisis remains behind us, the budget deficits will still be high due to an excessive reduction in tax rates in 2006. At that time, an additional fiscal effort will be needed to reduce the deficits, both by introducing some new taxes and, in particular, by limiting spending in a way that will bring us below 3% of the deficits in gross domestic product by 2013, and in the event of a conjuncture, also in surplus, depending on the market situation during this period. Despite the difficult economic macroeconomic and public financial situation in which Slovenia and the other countries in Europe, as well as Slovenia, were able to find agreement on most of the open issues or problems already in the preparation of the basic draft state budgets for the next two years. It seems very important to me that we do not yet have to interfere with the rights of individuals already acquired, but we are confined only to valorisation, namely, in 2010, the salaries, pensions and other benefits of individuals or aid to individuals will be valorised with half of the expected valorisation. In 2009, we prepared our first and then our second budget rebalancing, which were the first budgets of this government. The first rebalancing was a completely counter-crisis rebalancing. It included all necessary measures to mitigate and prevent the continuation of the crisis. The results will likely be shown in estimates or statistics on gross domestic product for the third and then the fourth quarter. In the second quarter, however, we turned economic growth from falling into slow, say stagnation. Due to further deterioration already in the second quarter, we have "turned" economic growth from falling into slow, say, stagnation. In order to further exacerbate the economic situation, more than originally announced to Umar's expert, we also had to draw up a second balance very quickly, which was still counter-crisis, but also addressed in a austerity manner, since the projected lower revenues did not allow us to spend on the level of the first balance. Our predictions that a third balance will not be needed have proved to be correct. Our latest income estimates on key tax revenues are even slightly higher than what we have planned in the last balance. This means that we have been conservative in the planning of revenue, which I think is right and right. We have drawn up budgets for the next two years in a situation where forecasts of economic or macroeconomic indicators are changing considerably and are changing rapidly. Practically the situation is so volatile, so moving that it is very difficult with some mathematical methods to predict as accurately as what the actual situation will be in a few months, in particular, three quarters or more. Thus, the marked instability and change of structure is a characteristic of the present time. The Ministry of Finance does not have its own analytical service to assess and prepare macroeconomic forecasts. That's what the Umar government office does. The Ministry of Finance has followed these forecasts and has taken them into account in the preparation of the basic proposal for both budgets. As I pointed out, as long as these forecasts or indicators change to better or worse, we will prepare a new balance in the coming year, which is not unusual in such exceptional circumstances. The same is true for the 2011 budget, which will undoubtedly need to be further processed and presented in an appropriate budgetary planning to be launched by mid-term next year. As stated above, the draft budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, which are prepared before you in accordance with Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, are complemented. The main reason for the preparation of the updated draft budget for 2010 and 2011 is the agreement reached by the public sector unions concerning salaries in the public sector. Thus, due to the overall alignment of basic salaries with 1. Seven. 2010, the removal of the third quarter of salary imbalances by 1. Ten. In 2010, the harmonisation of the annual leave regression and the harmonisation of additional premiums for collective supplementary pension insurance increases the expenditure of the state budget by 26.3 million euros. This increase, of course, relates only to the portions of the salaries we pay from the state budget. These are direct budgetary users and those indirect budgetary consumers who are receiving remuneration from the State budget. Similarly, in line with the same agreement for all budget consumers who planned spending rights for 2010 to pay regular work performance, the financial plan for the full amount of the planned regular work performance makes it difficult for the Group of 11.4 million euros. Taking those changes into account, an additional EUR 15 million had to be provided for salaries in the State budget. In view of the fact that half of the wage escalation has been agreed, the Government has also decided and supplemented the intervention law in the area of transfers to individuals, namely, that all categories covered by the intervention law will now be aligned for 2010 with half of the planned harmonisation. This change has also led to an increase of €8.9 million in budget expenditure for 2010. However, since the Government has decided not to increase the budget deficit due to the above-mentioned changes, because of the higher expenditure of the State budget, but rather to reduce certain expenditure in the 2010 supplementary draft budget, the budget deficit remains at the level set out in the basic draft state budget, namely 5% of the gross domestic product, which relates only directly to the implementation of the country's budget. It is nominally even 7.6 million lower than it was originally. Expenditure on goods and services, namely €19.3 million, has been cut most. All government budget users have re-examined all planned expenditure and additional rationalisation and savings, and in particular reduced expenditure by €35 million by the end of some projects. Thus, expenditure on goods and services increases by €29.2 million compared to 2009 and €30.7 million compared to 2008. Here I would like to point out that there are also many projects under expenditure on goods and services and that these are not just so-called material costs, which are often used. It is important to know that, in the framework of economic purpose, there are several unique projects, such as the 1.2 million agricultural census, the EXPO exhibition or our participation in this exhibition in China, amounting to EUR 3.1 million, etc. All these exceptions are included for economic purposes, 40.20 office materials and services, which are also the largest increase of €20 million in expenditure on goods and services. Compared to 2009 and 10 million, compared to 2008. The impact of lowering expenditure is, of course, reflected in almost all important policies. Once again, I would like to place four special emphasis on development, which I think is particularly important. The policy of promoting entrepreneurship and competitiveness is slightly reduced by €822,000 in the complementary proposal. However, it is increasing by more than €100 million or 38.2% compared to 2008. Why the comparison with 2008? Because expenditure in 2009 due to anti-crisis measures was significantly increased in this segment. Nevertheless, the volume of funding under this policy also increases by EUR 12.5 million or 3.3% compared to 2009. It is, therefore, being reduced only in the light of the budget originally proposed, this policy is slightly lower in the supplementary budget. Higher education, science, technology and the information society is increasing by €1.7 million in the 2010 supplementary budget and slightly less than 50% in 2008. However, this is a policy that is very important to us, which is why the increase compared to 2009 is 10%. These comparisons relate only to the expenditure of the State budget A. balance sheet. In addition, there is something else to be mentioned in this policy, namely that these additional funds in the so-called B. balance sheet, where, through public funds, such as the Slovenian Eco-Fund, the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, EUR 50 million will be earmarked for loans and guarantees to enterprises in the field of technological development, particularly in the light of a non-citizen society, and new technologies. This will enable the technological development of Slovenian companies in the field of carbon-free society, e.g. renewable energy from biomass, geothermal solar energy and similar and other relevant new technologies, as well as the related investments of companies, to be made by means of repayable funds. Labour market policy is increasing by 184% compared to 2008, which, of course, is due to counter-crisis measures to mitigate the consequences of the crisis. Much of the 2009 payments will be stepped down to 2010 and therefore expenditure will also increase by 64 million euros or 14% compared to 2009, and in 2011 they are falling by 25%, which is the logical consequence of the elimination of anti-crisis measures. The last policy I would like to put specifically in this introduction is transport and transport infrastructure policy. In recent years, I believe that the area of rail infrastructure is largely too neglected. Despite difficult times, the government has decided that additional investments should be made mainly in rail infrastructure. In the 2010 supplementary draft budget, however, this policy is falling by EUR 9.8 million, but it will increase by 42% compared to 2009 and will amount to EUR 820 million for the overall policy. As has already been said, the budget deficit in 2010 due to the need for an additional increase in expenditure, is not increasing, but even decreasing by €7.6 million, due to an agreement with the unions and complementing the intervention law on transfers of individuals. The debt of the state budget is also falling minimally by €1.2 million and will amount to €3.6 billion in 2010. Here, too, credit reprogrammes or repayments of already outstanding claims are included, of which €1.7 billion for repayment of debt and € 1.9 billion for implementation of the budget. In the 2011 supplementary draft budget, the budget deficit does not change and remains as nominal as the proportion of GDP at the same level as the underlying draft budget, with a budget deficit of €1 billion and €550 million or 4.08% of GDP in 2011. Speaking of 2011, I would like to point out that, in such uncertain economic conditions, 2011 is still relatively far away. Economic forecasts for 2011 are likely to change, of course we hope for the better. In addition, we have already submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for structural reforms, which will certainly also affect public finances both on the revenue and expenditure sides. It is a fact that, in accordance with the current Public Finance Act, in autumn 2010, we will prepare amendments to the 2011 state budget, which will already have to include the envisaged reforms that would come into force in 2011. The structure of the 2011 state budget is likely to change significantly in the preparation of the amendment. As I have said many times, in such turbulent times, it is not unusual. The amendments relating to 2011 are also mainly due to the agreement concluded with the public sector unions and have financial implications in 2011. The financial maximum burden and the consequence of this agreement is the elimination of wage imbalances by 1. Ten. 2010 third quarter and 1. Ten. 2011 fourth quarter. As a result of this agreement, the expenditure of the state budget is increasing by EUR 120.4 million. As for 2010, in line with the same agreement for all budget users who planned spending rights for 2011 to pay regular work performance, the financial plan for the total amount of planned regular work performance decreased by 11.8% for these users. Together, wage allocations in the state budget for direct budgetary users and those indirect budgetary users who receive salaries from the state budget have increased by EUR 108.6 million. The total amount of expenditure in 2011 remains the same and amounts to EUR 10.4 billion, as the Government has decided to further reduce some expenditure with additional rationalisation and savings in 2011. There are also budgetary revenues at the same level and consequently there are no changes in the budget deficits, which remain at 4.1% of gross domestic product or €550 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The amended draft budget was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I'm giving the president a word. To Anton Rope for presentation of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u4	Nicely greeted! Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy complemented the proposals of the state budgets for 2010 and 2011 as a parent labour force at its 16th emergency meeting. The Committee received 42 amendments from SDS, SLS and SNS members to the updated draft budget for 2010 and 32 amendments from SDS and SLS to the 2011 supplementary draft budget. At the start of the joint debate on both the supplementary budget proposals and the amendments tabled, it was stressed that the basic macroeconomic and financial assumptions in the light of the initial draft budgets for 2010 and 2011 had not changed significantly. The fact is that, due to the consequences of the international economic and financial crisis, we expect a real fall in gross domestic product, investment, exports, imports and private consumption this year, which of course means a deterioration in the economic, public financial and employment and social conditions in the country. It is important, however, that virtually all the international institutions for 2010 and in particular 2011 are forecasting a calming recession in the international environment, and again and gradually increasing positive economic growth. This growth allows and will enable the gradual improvement of the economic and social conditions in Slovenia as well. In the next two years, we can so gradually expect an increase in exports, mainly in the first year of exports, and in 2011 also an increase in investment and an appropriate increase in gross domestic product. The slowest improvement in the situation is expected due to specificity and complexity in the area where it wants to improve as quickly as possible, this is in the labour market. Therefore, the role of the State and the Government in this area in the next two years will be particularly important and the responsibility of the Government will be particularly important. Re-economic growth, its sufficient quality and sustainability, higher competitiveness and higher knowledge-based added value of the Slovenian economy and the whole state administration and public administration must be a key goal of Slovenia and its government over the next two years. Both draft budgets for 2010 and 2011 are fundamental assumptions for the establishment of opportunities for such guidance and can therefore be important and even decisive in some areas. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Following the consideration of the completed draft budgets for 2010 and 2011 by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, some discussers expressed a critical attitude towards the complementary budget proposals. The key critical points from the debate were as follows: the updated draft budget for 2010 is mainly the result of an intervention legislative proposal on counter-crisis measures. The Government should not take sufficient account of the calls made by certain interested working bodies of the National Assembly. The Commission's conclusions on public financial supervision were specifically mentioned, which, in the context of the consideration of the budget proposal, also highlighted the urgently needed reduction of the deficit at 3% of GDP and in this regard called for a reduction in the country's current expenditure and non-productive investments that do not affect economic growth. The Committee's debates were also critical of the European Commission's call for the deficit to be gradually reduced or closer to 3% of GDP. It was pointed out that more could be done in the area of savings in particular. The programme orientation of the budget should also be questionable. And some suggested that they obtain the Court of Auditors' opinion on this. As the most obvious flaw in the preparation of the supplementary draft budget, the opposition mentioned the fact that less money is spent on development investments, less money than the deficit, and therefore also used to finance current budgetary spending. On the contrary, the panellists from the positions, coalition parties felt that the deficit amount was indeed high, but it was not comparable to the previous deficits, since this year's budget should take into account the significant additional public funding expenditure incurred due to the populist pre-election measures and the promise of the previous government. In particular, there is a fall in the inflows from the tax on paid wages and profit tax. However, the view was expressed that it was the power of the Government to acknowledge, above all, that it did not have the courage to act more decisively in the area of inappropriate measures by the former Government. The crisis is also expected to contribute to a more serious reflection on the quality of investments, regardless of whether they are financed from domestic or European funds. The debate also expressed a critical assessment that the budget does not detail the budget’s dedicated revenue and expenditure. The question was also raised whether the Government would take responsibility for the items in the development programme plan, either on the basis of domestic or European funds, which would prove not to be based on a legal basis. A proposal was made for the Government to provide data on the planned and used resources in the area of the Water Fund until the start of the consideration of the supplementary draft budgets at the meeting of the National Assembly. In the course of the meeting, the Committee decided to adopt the amendments tabled. This part of the debate focused on the amendment of opposition parliamentary groups to reduce sub-programmes for various budgetary users. The amendment proposes a reduction of the current budget expenditure of €800 million and a reduction of the deficit to 3% of GDP. The representatives of the amendment's proposer reiterated the over-expenditure of the supplementary budget proposal, the increase in non-productive consumption of the absence of reserves, the drastic intervention in the country's indebtedness and the increase in deficits far above the permitted level. The coalition parties, however, expressed the view that the amendment is not selective and therefore does not constitute a serious proposal, as it seeks only to reduce the deficit, such as by populism and by interfering with already legal obligations, particularly in the social field, where the needs are even greater in the crisis. Even if the idea can be assessed as good, it is impossible to implement such an amendment without appropriate changes to individual laws. The responsible reduction can only be drawn up by the Government and it is therefore regrettable that it has not done so in the context of the preparation of the supplementary draft budget. In fact, both the opposition parliamentary groups and the Parliamentary Group have really tabled an amendment to the draft budget to reduce the expenditure of the various budgetary users, which the Government has rejected. The Committee further did not support any of the amendments to the updated draft budgets for 2010 and 2011. Dear Members and honourable Members, the fundamental feature of the draft budgets for 2010 and 2011 is the search for an appropriate, optimal relationship between, on the one hand, the vital countercyclical action of the State and the Government, which must, and undoubtedly, reduce the impact of the global economic crisis on the Slovenian economy, businesses and citizens, and on the other hand the urgent need to ensure public financial stability and sustainability. In this respect, the draft budgets for 2010 and 2011 are particularly important and exceptional. I suggest we support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by Willi Rezman, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! As a member of the DeSUS Group, I will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, which is not entirely uniform. I will explain later how we differ and how we will vote. On the other hand, I would like to say that we will not all vote in favour of this budget, which is proposed, from a starting point of two reasons. The first is that, in part, the budgets we accept and the coalition agreement do not correspond to each other as we would like. The second reason is that the DeSUS client programme and the proposed budgets are even more individual. These are two main fundamental reasons why there will be no vote. As each individual will vote, he will have the opportunity to say. Today we will probably hear a lot of statistical information, the debate on deficits, debts, all four cash registers, the Maastricht criteria, and I don't know what else, so I think it's better not to mention what I have in mind, and save my time and allow specific debates. More specifically, however, the Group of Members was united in respecting the agreement that many individual interests and amendments would not "prefer" to the proposal made by the Government, and that is why we have also renounced certain mentions in our DeSUS Group of Members, amendments that would benefit from amending the budget towards the fulfilment of the coalition agreement and the DeSUS programme and remain so. We have not tabled amendments and we do not intend to support those proposed today. However, we will support, once again, the draft budget itself. We are very surprised that some of the modest ambitions of the Dessus Group and the coalition agreement have not been realized in relation to the elderly, regarding the provision of funds for those who are most affected even during the crisis, that it was not possible to raise a few million a year to build a home for the elderly, where prices would be significantly lower than those in concessions or in private. We are very surprised that it does not appear in the draft budget nor in such small things as the establishment of an office for the elderly, which is over half a million, but do not have such an institution, but some other groups of people and people in Slovenia who may not have as much need as the elderly do. Well, we were not only talking about weaknesses in the draft budget, we also commended some things if we could not praise the attitude towards housing in our country, if we could not praise the relationship to water in our country, and there are still a number of such cases that we could list, and we are very pleased that it has changed dramatically, at least after the investment amounts promised, the attitude towards young people has changed. The whole range of new youth homes throughout Slovenia will be built and we support this, we support that young people will also receive material, financial and other conditions so that they can realize their specific interests and thus also demonstrate what we have written in the pre-election password that we are for all generations. We are very happy to know that student homes will also be built, not only are they being renovated. If they don't build, they'll at least buy. I have assurances in writing that otherwise what we wanted to do in the project of Maribor University 2014 will not work, there we demanded 11.6 million for student homes, but that other funds will be found on the second path, despite over 8 million for student accommodation facilities in Maribor. We are happy to do so, and we support it. Probably by the time the University is implemented, more than three years from now, it is possible to provide the remaining three million in the next three budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for students. Since I am already here, I am pleased and probably all the Members of the DeSUS Group who have supported me in these ambitions to find an item in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the university, or in the "infusion" amount of EUR 100,000, but the item is and is in accordance with Article 21 of the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, paragraph 3 and point 4 may be amended if, of course, the willingness on the part of ministers for this. There are also some reasons for us to rejoice. One of these reasons is that the Minister has promised a re-decision of the Government, which is not yet realized, and probably will be the decision of the Government, which provides for investment and for the operation of the preparation of the University of Maribor in 2010 and 2011. So after this brief introduction, let me say once again that the DeSUS Group will support the proposed budgets by a majority rather than by all votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav, on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers. Colleagues and colleagues. The year 2009 is almost behind us. If we are trying to summarize briefly the year ahead, we see that it has been shaped by one fact, namely the global financial and economic crisis. This crisis has, of course, caused great consequences in the Slovenian economy and in the Slovenian public finances. If we look at the result of this crisis, we see that we will have a 7.3% real decline in GDP this year. The decline in GDP is mainly due to a strong decline in exports, which will decrease by 18% this year, i.e. a decline in investment in fixed assets and equipment of 21%. As far as bank credit activities are concerned, it is unfortunately only possible to establish that the credit potential of the State guarantee scheme remains untapped. With all the energy invested in the Slovenian banking system at the end of the year, we regret to note that the credit activity of companies in domestic banks is one-tenth of the acceptable period of last year. On the contrary, the indebtedness of companies to foreign banks for a poor sixth is higher than in the comparable period of last year. The guarantee scheme for natural persons, which was adopted by means of a thin pump, is no longer mentioned. The situation in the labour market is also deteriorating and will worsen, with the delay of course. In September, we reached 9.4% of registered unemployment, 88 000 366 unemployed. The budget deficit will reach 5.1%. The forecasts on which the 2010 and 2011 draft budget is based are also not exactly pink. In the coming year, we expect economic growth, which will not exceed 1% in the assumptions of slow recovery of foreign demand and preservation of our market shares, we expect an increase of 4% in exports, including a fall in investment, but not yet expected to increase. Nor is the situation on the labour market expected to improve. Even an increase in unemployment to 102 000 is expected by the fact that the risks of achieving these forecasts are also high in the direction of lower economic growth than predicted. In such situations, we have before us draft budgets for 2010 and 2011. A key problem that policy will have to face in the next period, how to reduce public spending and how to allocate available public funding in order to achieve the greatest possible competitiveness and economic growth. Let us see how the government has undertaken its first tasks, therefore, by reducing the volume of public spending. I don't think it's good. The public administration must share the fate of the Slovenian economy, whether we like it or not. It is a menacing finding that, in fact, expenditure on goods and services, i.e. public spending, is increasing from the budget to the budget. If we deduct the funds taken from the Ministry of Defence for the purpose of weapons, we will quickly find that the net consumption of public administration is increasing. On the one hand, we will take the Slovenian Army to a colleague and the public sector behaves as if it is living in another time in the other world. The numbers I'm going to support this implementation of mine, and the numbers I'm going to use when I come forward in my own name. This is, in our opinion, unacceptable and, above all, irresponsible. The Law on intervention measures due to the economic crisis is also very clear. It is unacceptable to try to save at the expense of the socially weak layers when the government spends more heavily. Resolution of public finances by non-coordination or co-ordination of social transfers, such as child allowance, child care allowance, large family allowance, child support, parental allowance, social assistance, compensation for the unemployed, disability allowance, assistance allowance and service, scholarships and so on, is simply not appropriate in these circumstances. Furthermore, it is unacceptable for the Slovenian People's Party to dispose of public finances at the expense of young families and children when, with a little good will, much more resources could be saved in other areas of consumption, particularly the state administration and its apparatus, as well as in investments, public tendering. I am thinking of a presentation of the start of the implementation of the amendments and of a supplement to the Kindergarten Act, which provides that, from the State budget, kindergartens are provided with funds to co-finance parental payments for a child who has completed the age of three years at 50%. Let me tell you how in the Slovenian People's Party we assess government attempts to allocate available public funds in order to achieve the greatest possible competitiveness and economic growth. We are afraid that with this success of the Slovenian government, when we have this year's budget deficit of 5.1%, and even for 2010, it should not be much more difficult to direct anywhere else. We have found that the key reason for such a GDP decline in exports and the decline in investment activity. We all know that for the first reason, we can have any direct influence. Our exports depend on the economic "climate" and consumption in the countries to which we export most. So it will increase when the economic "climate" is stabilised in a European scale, unless individual companies do something about it by looking for new markets. On the other hand, investment activity can be affected through public sector investments and private sector investments. Given the state of public finances, we all agree that public sector investments have reached a dangerous high limit in terms of circumstances, maximum if you wish. We are therefore left with only a reflection on how to stimulate private sector investments, investments that will trigger the Slovenian economy and provide longer-term economic productivity and growth. This is an area where too little has been done. So what can we do? It is imperative that the Slovenian economy be encouraged to start investment or investment activity; only these, in our opinion, can at this moment reverse the course of events as it is. In the Slovenian People's Party, we tried to make constructive proposals for laws that would temporarily encourage all kinds of investments to resume this cycle, but of course we were not heard. Let me also touch on European funds in this context. Unfortunately, despite your unforgivable criticism of the failure to draw on European funds at the time of Dr. Žagar's ministry, we can only find one thing: there is nothing going on under your tactics, but there are no calls. I want to know how we're going to make use of the funds that lie on the platter in front of us. For June 2009, for example, it was announced that the fifth public tender on the use of resources for the development of the regions would be prepared. Today is the end of the year, with some €290 million left of approximately 600, because they are not distributed or no invitation or invitation to tender has been prepared for them. During its four years, the former government with Minister Zhagar has made six calls, two from the previous period and four calls for the period 2007-2013. In this way, some 330 million euros have been distributed. It's been around for a year, and this invitation to tender is still missing. Worse still, projects actually stop and the problem that arises is that they will not be realized in the way that development projects were set up. With this call, ladies and gentlemen, let us rediscover a number of new jobs in an area where unemployment is the largest, where the most funds are earmarked for the least developed areas and the least developed regions. In your speeches and presentations, we are constantly hearing about anti-crisis and structural measures and urgent institutional adjustments. While you have resources and measures to reach, you cannot use them. You are engaged in extremely important structural changes, for example, through new approaches to budgeting. In this way, you promote a more precise definition of the objectives and a more balanced development of Slovenia, and the result should be greater efficiency. More efficiency has never been the result of beautiful words, even less balanced development of Slovenia. The only thing you have achieved with the new budgeting approach is its impreciseness and, as a result, its incomparability with past budgets. Once you have completed the budget lines at the sub-programme level, any transparency in the use of budgetary resources is lost. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are dissatisfied with the budget ahead of us. For all the reasons listed above, we will not support him either. In our individual debates, we will further explain this decision to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The word is given by the winner, Jelinčič, to the nobles on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian National Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u10	Nice hello to you all! These two budgets, which we have received for consideration, are still wasteful on the expenditure side, irrespective of the situation in the country. The fact is, they have less money available or they have chosen the same or less budget than in the past only two ministries. However, it seems to us that this budget cannot be different in terms of how it was composed, given that the public administration is becoming more and more devoured and given that the "premier" does not hope to stop this greed, these two budgets are somehow still sustainable if we can look at it all together. The fact is that it could be even worse, it is difficult to say, it could be even worse and thus justify some budgets, because one would expect that, according to the high words and the statements of our "premier" we should have a budget that would not have had 1.8 billion losses in 2010 and 1.6 billion losses in 2011. And yet I think this thought of such a small loss is too low. I am confident that the loss in 2011 will be much higher than two billion euros and that we will be close to two billion euros in loss already in 2010. The fact is that the situation does not indicate good and in Slovenia we can expect an even worse blow next year in recession than this year. The measures taken and adopted by the State are not sufficient, but in particular they are wrong, and there is no way of doing so, no one is doing social work where there is much to be saved. Given that we have a circus of 100,000 unemployed, we can say that out of these 100,000 there are certainly 50,000 sloths who are receiving social support. Social support is so much and so monthly. If we see that we employ foreign workers instead of these lazy people, their wages are so much and so much. Given that we have signed double taxation laws with most countries, they are also leaving the country. If all of this comes together at the annual level, we will certainly come to the number of about 700 million euros that could be saved, but of course we should tighten the matter and slap the lazy people on the fingers, not "uncles" them further by keeping some kind of social peace. Social peace is not maintained in such a way as to "fur" laziness, but to be maintained by different systems. Surely, therefore, we can expect unrest in the ranks of those who work, pay taxes and from which the country also receives a certain amount of money with which the full budget is budgeted. There's going to be more of a strike, of course, and it's going to be less and less. Given that we have not taken any measures to burden the economy to the extent that the economy invests and expands what is necessary, technological development, new programmes, ecology and the like, where money is, we have not invested in it and we will not invest in it, because, in the first place, social development is the most appropriate thing, I would say, that the "premier" can talk about improvement, I don't know what else and how to take care of a small person, as it says. That is why we have tabled a whole series of amendments together with both opposition parties, which, of course, will not be accepted. Of course they won't, because they're taking where the state gives the most, that's, the public administration. They're insatiable in public administration. Let's just look at judges who never have enough money to do a job that they don't actually do, and then they cry and "scream" on various TV shows that politics is to blame for not being popular. It's just how popular someone is going to be, because he hasn't done anything yet, and he's going to come to court, and he's going to get a raise of 700 euros, not an annual salary, but a month for 700 euros when he hasn't done anything. He would sit in that chair until his death and warm him up, and he would not move away from there, and he would advance his career in time, and he would not go to peace when he had to go to peace, because his marriage would allow him to do so. But he has no responsibility, no responsibility at all. He can judge, as he thinks, and only say, 'Yes, to be wrong is human', and he will not apologize for a guilty verdict, he will not regret anything, nor will he be like an Austrian or German judge criminal or financially responsible for his bad, inadequate, wrong or corrupt judgment. In short, the financial mileage in the Republic of Slovenia is strange. We're going to sink deeper and deeper and we're going to sink further. However, I do not know if it makes sense to oppose this budget, after all, it is a matter of choosing a less harmful thing than two harmful things, because if the budget is adopted, there will still be a possible balance, maybe the government will "swipe up" in the meantime, starting to understand fiscal policy and turning money differently than it understands now. Maybe a flash can happen and something will work out. However, if the budget is not adopted, we will be committed to funding after twelve, making any development project even more impossible. One would expect an increase in the sum of money for some good projects, for development, for something new, but for technological development, in defence of half a million euros, in the economy by 1.3 million euros. What I'd say isn't much, but for what new propulsive programs it's a huge amount of money that can bring a multiple of the funds invested, but it is, the government doesn't understand it. Our finance minister once stated that it is good if we are "puffed" and that a debt of EUR 1.8 billion is an incentive to a better job. I think that if I brought here to the National Assembly of 10 Housewives, it would be easy for the Minister to explain to him that having a "poof" in the domestic cash register is not good, because it is necessary to return what you owe and not just that money, it is also necessary to pay interest and it is not easy. If you don't have anything, just how you're gonna get back out of that mess. Or are you going to be even more in debt? This is one of the economic theories, but this economic theory goes to a dead end and it is finally found that there is no good profit here, but such a theory is already known and such a theory has already produced negative results, unless we start printing our money or some counterfeit euro and try to solve the financial situation in Slovenia. And such solutions are already known from history, and they have brought nothing good. If we take another matter of "prevention", in the event of health prevention, we find that financial resources are being violated and reduced everywhere. I don't know why. Nevertheless, health is the greatest good. If we do not have health, the state financial system also burdens itself significantly more than otherwise. But it doesn't matter. The Ministry or Government will do what it has to do, and the government will do what it has to do, of course. I wonder why in some areas the measures proposed by the Slovenian National Party are not being adopted. Maybe because it's too hard to read what we write, or maybe because you look at the inscription, where the document came from, and you just throw it into the basket, because that's the easiest thing to do. Why bother and why do you want to advertise to someone else, even though it's a common good? I don't think the government realizes we're in the same boat, and we're sailing, apparently, against the cores. And those four can sink this ship. The intelligence to be gathered together is scattered across Slovenia and to a lesser extent found in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It's all about her, but no one listens to her. Maybe it would be good for the government to look in the mirror and find out what's wrong. And it locks itself up for 14 days in a place where the cameras don't have access, gets all the way to the end, and eventually finds out what needs to be done. Maybe "premier" isn't exactly the right thing to do with a fist on a table. Maybe it should be someone else, but it's in the government domain. Let them figure out how and what. But it's true that the government has a lot more to offer. The judges got theirs, now the doctors will ask for theirs. And when the doctors get theirs, they'll demand their own. And what's next? It all burdens those who really work, those who, in their own words, "fabris" workers. But they will no longer be able to "further" the insatiable monster called "public administration". But the public administration is still expanding. This year over 1,800 new employees in public administration who certainly do not bring finances into the state budget. In the ministries to date, from 1992 onwards or from the next term since 1996, we have not experienced any cleansing in any ministry, but it would be good to put at least half of the people sitting in the ministries today, without exception, in all ministries. Of course, the way to throw the one who doesn't work on the road is not to keep the one who lies somewhere, but to keep the one who knows, wants and works, but it's a difficult story. This story requires a strong character to do it. We also cannot count on any improvement in the economic field. I already said we could expect even more poofs in the next year. We can expect another 50,000 unemployed in 2010 and about 20 to 30 000 new unemployed in 2011. These data are not encouraging. In view of such budgetary baselines and in view of such draft budgets for 2010 and 2011, we cannot hope for any improvement. Surely the amendment, the joint amendment of the three opposition parliamentary groups, will not be adopted, although it would be good, is good and right on the public administration of cutting poultry to those who have now flown to highs. However, it is necessary to know who is tall in years falls low. And I'm afraid this will happen sooner than the next election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. First of all, greetings to the Minister of Finance and the Minister and all the other ministers and their co-workers. What do you say at the beginning? We will support both budgets in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. To achieve this result, which we have today on the table, it took a lot of work, a lot of coordination, especially understanding the spirit, time and, of course, if we divide more than €10 billion in one year and spend it on behalf of our people, then this is certainly a matter that deserves a positive thought and treatment. It is certainly a budget that is not ideal, but in these times in which we are realistic. For the 2010 and 2011 budgets still have a strong impact on the economic crisis. After years of conjunction, we were in great trouble in 2009 also from a public financial point of view. These problems will certainly continue for the next two years. The ongoing debate on budgets is always taking place on the question of whether the budget is developmental or undevelopmental, and never and never does anyone explain precisely why a development budget is the opposite. Many have already announced in previous budgetary discussions on the budget that new taxes, new taxes and the like are being introduced from the budget in the coming years, but at the same time and in the same time, they have taken the initiative to fight environmental change, to provide social assistance to the social state, to fully coordinate transfers and to provide additional funds that mean nothing but expenditure on the budget. The time has simply come for us to pour ourselves pure wine and say that in our country, which is also a social state after the Constitution and guarantees high social rights from the budget, it is impossible, at the same time, to provide enormous resources for development at the same time. Of course, with increased development resources, the same people quickly add that debt increases unheard of. All these statements are contradictory and should be considered primarily by those who spread them. The truth is, the government is trying to rationalise tax costs, to try to systematically regulate e.g. an area of real estate where those who have more should be paid more than those who are most vulnerable. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we estimate that steps are definitely going in the right direction, and the question is whether they are always long enough and determined. In our view, the budget is certainly development-oriented as far as possible in these circumstances, because it simultaneously ensures a high level of social rights that are even more prevalent in these crisis and turbulent times and must come to terms. Of course, the view of such budgets depends very much on whether someone is in position or opposition. This is what we see - politics. But I think that our task, all together, is to accept it for people who, in the first place, will make it possible for everyone to survive, will be cost-effective, rational and will be intended for a part also for investment, and that is where we think the most of this will remain for tomorrow. However, something in the Liberal Democracy Club is certain - there is no Member in this Chamber who would not press the voting key for more development funds. Very rare, however, are those who would also genuinely, but not only verbally and populistly, to press the "for" button to delineate certain rights. But the budget bag is only one and the level of resources is severely limited. If we talked about the crisis and crisis budget as a 2009 budget rebalancing, we can say for the 2010 and 2011 draft budgets that the budgets are real, but certainly not ideal. There's not a lot of perfect things in life anyway. However, we believe that budgets are an acceptable compromise, both between development and the needy social state. The macroeconomic framework for the following years is expected to be somewhat optimistic, since in 2010, under the assumption of a recession in the international environment, the economy will record a slightly positive real GDP growth of 0.9%. In 2011, however, we expect global recovery to increase slightly in 2011, and the estimates are, and we want, deserve and need to, stop at 2.5% of gross social product. An important feature of these two budgets is also its target orientation or budget cut according to the structure of the development classification. The regulation of the previous mandate provided that the budget should be prepared in a way that would allow for the measurement of effects based on pre-known indicators. Unfortunately, only the current government has taken part in this task, which has drawn up a framework that allows for such measurement. This is certainly one of the objectives, although many people, especially those who think critically after their official duties, do not think that this structure of the development classification brings anything substantial new, but the main added value is hidden in the background: in the fabric of the planning of each development policy and in the measurement of efficiency using the logical framework matrix. The target of the targeted budget is to link expenditure planning directly with the objectives and activities to achieve these objectives. In Slovenia, even here in the National Assembly, we have all too often witnessed discussions about increasing money on this and that programme, sub-programme, increasing and reducing expenditure on this or that project. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, however, we have already warned, and we would like to point out in particular this time that the debate on the amount of money we spend has to be redirected to the debate on the funds we invest for each purpose and the effects. Public, this is budget money, it must be treated as carefully as private money and not as some kind of "consumer money", but the funds that are invested are noble, which also achieve multiple effects - not least for projects, especially for those that will generate new added value. In connection with this fact, we have barely started a discussion in Slovenia on how much funding has been spent on each programme and what we have gained from this programme in practice; there is still little talk of rationalisation, evaluation of efficiency and performance. And the preparation of such a budget is the first but very important step forward. This budget is not the end of the preparation, but, on the contrary, the budget is the beginning. Planning, monitoring and evaluation of development policies is a dynamic, continuous and long-term process. Those who feel that the budget is targeted are mistakenly convinced, for example, those who set themselves for the purpose. The increase in GDP by 4% per year and must then, in fact, also make this happen. This is much more complex because of the fact that the budget can only partially regulate GDP growth, and of course many other measures regulate it in practice. Therefore, in the LDS, we stress the need to continue intensively with efficiency measurement activities, so that ministries and other budgetary consumers can be properly trained to understand the logic of the targeted budget objectives. Finally, no less important, we must also come up with appropriate mechanisms, how we will also end any sub-programme and invest in more effective programmes. And this is supposed to happen relatively automatically, based on measured results, without major inter-resor breaks, who gets what and how much gets. There will certainly be much work to be done on linking certain programmes, establishing synergies and so on. Another important new feature of budgets is also the so-called fiscal rule, which currently provides that the level of integrated budgetary resources should not exceed the amount from 2009. This determines the maximum amount of money available during the crisis and thus stabilises public finances, as it introduces more discipline and also some pressure to spend the money more rationally. In this context, this budget is characterised by a relative decrease in domestic budget resources under policies in relation to the previous year. This is, last but not least, proof that the Government has taken the impact of the crisis seriously in rationalisation and is also addressing it in this document. Since the tax revenues have already decreased significantly in 2009, it means that the country has much less room for manoeuvre to direct the so-called free development funds. It is therefore all the more important that the budget is also designed to increase the use of European funds. For these are the only major nominal source of funds that the crisis has not taken away, we have been provided in Brussels, reserved for us, of course if we are to do what we have to do. It is important to stress, however, that we need to draw on these funds first in the area of large projects, to accelerate the use of resources, which was as good as ever in the history of independent Slovenia in 2009. The budget is certainly coloured with a significant difference between revenue and expenditure. Thus, the revenue in the 2010 draft budget will be around €8.5 billion and expenditure will be around € 10.5 billion. The improved picture is shown in 2011 when the planned expenditure is around € 10.3 billion and the revenue rises to €8.8 billion. The difference is reflected in the increased indebtedness, which is necessary in view of the current situation. The budgets proposed reflect some balance between social security in times of crisis and development activities that will ensure long-term development in the future. However, if we move to a debate on development policies, which are of primary importance for directing development funds in 2010, the policy of promoting entrepreneurship and competitiveness allocates resources at the same level as in the previous year, funds to improve the support environment for entrepreneurship and competitiveness, and in this context also funds for the construction of economic and development logistics centres funded by the European Union funds, are being increased. In 2010, 2011, however, this policy is slightly reduced as a result of the lower volume of European Union funds for tourism development, as the European Union's main allocations for this purpose were spent in 2007-2010. We believe in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that it is important that funds for these purposes are maintained at the same levels, even though it is extremely difficult to ensure in times of crisis. It is particularly important that we provide incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises - e.g. Through the incentives of the Enterprise Fund, as we all know now, these companies are one of the main drivers of further economic development. The second of its kind is certainly a policy of science and technology. In relation to the first, we must be aware that only through technological breakthroughs and investment in research and development can we also significantly increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. This in practice means that we begin to produce such products that will be the product of our own Slovenian development, which will be the final products and will be able to sell them under our own brands. Also in this segment, the budget is definitely development-oriented, with the amount of these funds increasing by 10.2% in 2010, precisely for the competitiveness of businesses and for research excellence. This dynamic is also increasing and sustaining for 2011 – for the educational infrastructure of organisations such as higher education institutions, public research institutions, institutions for the promotion and popularisation of science and other public institutions operating in areas that are mainly and exclusively related to the needs of the economy. More needs to be done in Slovenia in the area of knowledge integration. In Slovenia, too, we are witnessing this European paradox, where the best research centres generate excellent knowledge, which is inefficiently transferred to the economy. That, of course, we have all the possibilities and all the potential to do so, we have been able to convince Members and Members of Parliament on a recent visit to the Institute of Joseph Stefan. If we have previously discussed policies that promote economic development, the budget also contains, and must contain, a strong social component. That is why the budget could be considered a development-social one in our House of Representatives. Because in the development policy, the labour market is increasing by 8% in 2010, where funds are being increased mainly to encourage the employment of unemployed persons, for public works, for equal opportunities, for social inclusion and for transfers to the unemployed. In the area of intervention measures against the economic crisis, funds amounting to €90 million are planned and in 2011 we estimate that there will be no need for such resources to improve the economic situation. Social labour market policy is also complemented by a social and health policy, as in 2009 we approached the weak in crisis times and introduced a special allowance for the socially disadvantaged. The fact that this government places emphasis on social security also testifies to the fact that the resources for development policy, social security and health care in the 2010 and 2011 budget account for more than 25% of the total expenditure of this budget. Within this policy is a particularly important area of health, where the volume of investment funds is greatly increased. In the field of transport policy, the updated 2010 and 2011 budget proposals also greatly increase resources as planned investment in transport infrastructure increases by 80% in 2010 and 58% in 2011. The most important, highly commendable innovation in transport is certainly the acceleration of the modernisation of the rail network, as funds are increasing there. The final objective and added value are mainly seen in the area of greater economic efficiency. It is therefore supported by economic indicators and is not a negligible environmental aspect of this story. A strong relative increase in resources is also evident in the energy development policy, where more than €23 million is earmarked for 2010, which is 70% higher than in 2009. The same is true for 2011. More importantly, the most resources are for renewable energy and energy efficiency and energy production, as it is clear to us so far that a high-carbon society is not a society in which we want to live in the long term or we must do much to be able to survive peacefully and with dignity as a human being. Within the framework of agricultural development policy, the most resources are allocated to rural development measures, which is necessary and commendable. The measures provided for give positive and urgently needed incentives to agriculture and to complementary activities on the farm. However, we must do more in administrative simplification and acquisition of these funds. In the area of agriculture, it is right to draw attention to the problem of Slovenian forests, which is often neglected. As forests, due to their economic and social and environmental functions, are of great public interest, it is again and again within the agricultural policy that concern is that the least resources, 0.8%, are allocated to this particular area. In the view of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the pressing topics in the coming years should be given much more attention. An important policy in the field of environment and space regulation for Slovenia as a small and green country is also important. Therefore, in the 2010 budget, approximately 6.9% more is allocated than in the year following us. The majority of these funds are allocated to finance investments in environmental municipal infrastructure. Supply of drinking water, decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste and precipitation waters, and where there is a great backlog — the area of municipal waste management. This increase is due in particular to additional European funding from cohesion projects. However, in 2011, these resources are falling in the budget, resulting from a coordinated reduction in the dynamics of Slovenian participation in the projects prepared. The area of renewable energy sources and, above all, the efficient use of energy, where resources are also increasing in 2010, is also an important area within environmental issues and policies. This year we have also witnessed complications in granting subsidies to address the housing problem of young families. This is why it is both encouraging and important, and we would like to stress in particular that taking into account trends in 2010 and 2011, additional resources are provided for this purpose, to address the housing problem of young families. Since the rule of law is the foundation of healthy social, economic and general development, it is very important that this government has given special attention and resources to this. For the current government has rightly set itself a priority in preventing and sanctioning economic crime. Thus, in the context of resources remaining at the same level as in the past, through optimisation of processes, attention is paid to strengthening the overall approach to limiting specific forms of crime, such as organised forms of economic, financial crime and corruption. This is certainly the case with the development of crime prevention programmes, which highlights preventive programmes and not just repressive measures against different forms of deviating behaviour. New activities and sub-programmes introduce alternative dispute resolution, a crime prevention and control programme, the establishment and strengthening of the treatment of the worst forms of financial crime, the resolution of family disputes in the context of family law reform and internal affairs control, police, private security and detective activities. The ministry has taken a major step forward here, which in the long term brings us broader social positive effects, but also financial ones, precisely because of the more effective treatment of the worst crimes in the field of financial crime. Within the framework of development policies, national security, defence and external affairs, we would like to stress in particular the importance of investing in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia in the implementation of basic police activities, the upgrading and maintenance of registers of administrative and internal affairs and their equipment, the implementation of the TETRA project and the construction of the Centre for Forensic Investigations and other investments. The establishment of a National Investigation Office to address the worst forms of financial and economic crime is also a particularly important achievement. The Ministry of the Interior can be commended in this area, because it is proven and manifested simply that, if much has been said in the past, much work and concrete action is being done today. Finally, let us say that in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we are satisfied with the proposed budgets, which are, of course, far from wishing. Despite the crisis, especially where it is felt most by the citizens, it has been much done. We certainly want more, but at the same time we are aware that at the time and the moment that we are, it is simply not feasible anymore. With a great deal of socialism and a balanced measure of development, these two counter-crisis budgets are a good basis for further action. In the coming weeks, months and years, we must also raise the national debate to a different level. We must blame ourselves less and criticize ourselves, but open up key developmental dilemmas. For example, we still haven't answered some fundamental questions about what kind of society we want to be, whether we want to be a society where little and inefficient work is being done, but how easy it is to live, whether we want to stand by the most developed. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we estimate that there is no real national consensus. High-end words on excellence, excellence, competitiveness and more are written down by all in a number of strategic documents, but their implementation in practice is still limping. As liberals and advanced people, we are committed to overcoming the European average, but this will require radical change from us. We believe that our opinion on this issue is certainly shared by all political parties, but that is why we have the task of restructuring the economy, which will enable higher wages and new, especially better jobs with higher added value. It is also necessary to bring knowledge to businesses, to tax them, to encourage private investment, knowledge and development. In order to be able to achieve these challenges, we are faced with important reforms in the area of public service delivery, where we are not sufficiently effective for the funds allocated for this. We certainly have a health reform ahead of us, and we could also list it. For the future, words are certainly superfluous, despite the fact that we did very little to address the structural problems of the Slovenian economy at the time of the global conjuncture when we had high growth. That's what's waiting for us now. The key to success is less investment in walls and more in people, because human capital, education, research and development, achieving technological breakthroughs, all of these are ciliium, which must be accompanied by a strong, strong social network that provides for those who are most vulnerable in this country. Surely we do not want a society of rich and poor, safe and dangerous, successful and unsuccessful, but a coherent European comparable progress and development. That is why our goal and example are the Scandinavian type of development, but also with the emphasis that we do not need to see only beautiful things, but we do not accept what needs to be adapted, modified, reformed and sacrificed. While budget resources to achieve the objective of greater social well-being represent many stones in some large, broad mosaic, only this will certainly not be enough to achieve such a vital research breakthrough. In many ways, we will also have to adapt our attitude to reality, to a globalized world that has many positive consequences, and unfortunately also some negative consequences. Let me get this straight. We will confirm these two budgets in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you very much. László Göncz has the word on behalf of the Group of National Communities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague. The national communities, both Hungarian and Italian, are aware of the situation in which we have been in the last year under the extremely unfavourable influence of the financial and economic crisis. There is no doubt that to a certain extent the situation will have an impact on the life and development potential of the whole society, including members of national communities. We are aware that in such circumstances it poses a particular challenge to prepare and adopt the budget, even more so if the so-called programme-oriented budget is to be prepared. When we assessed the proposed budget for 2010 and 2011 in the context of the national communities from this perspective, we found that the Government has largely taken into account the promise that, in the case of indigenous national communities, the budget lines will not be reduced nominally. It is certainly commendable to take this principled approach into account, and it should be added that some inconsistencies are also noted in the draft budget for the coming years, which will undoubtedly cause significant difficulties in the implementation of activities in the field of the conservation and development of national communities. It should also be made clear that the amounts which are nominally almost the same as those for 2008 and 2009, with the exception of certain derogations, are unfortunately going to provide significantly less operating opportunities in the next two years than was the case with identical support last year or in the current year. In the case of so few, undoubtedly very vulnerable national communities, such as the Hungarian and Italian communities, this aspect is particularly important, which was highlighted by the organisations of both communities at the stage of the consideration of the draft budget. In the context of the presentation of the position of the national communities, I will mention only some areas where these inconsistencies or difficulties are also present in the supplementary draft budget. In the area of culture, under the heading Basic Cultural Activity of the National Communities, the Italian and Hungarian Communities proposed a minimum increase in resources of a few percentages due to the specificity of the activities, in particular for the continuous quantity and quality of the programmes, which was not taken into account, as well as an amendment by members of the Italian and Hungarian nationalities in this regard at the initial stage. Even for 2011, an amount of EUR 21,000 is projected to be lower than for 2010, which is the overall decline rate for all such programmes. We expect that this minimum difference within the Ministry, in accordance with the arrangements, will be addressed in the 2011 already announced balance sheet. In the context of the next year's draft budget, national communities face the greatest challenges in ensuring the smooth implementation of national RTV programmes. We also had problems in the current year. In the context of the 2009 budget rebalancing debate, we agreed that the preparation of the budget for the next two years, together with our cooperation, will be the starting point of the 2008 budget. In this regard, we have also proposed thorough discussions between the Government, the RTV leadership and the national communities on the harmonisation of shares or the relationship between direct budgetary resources and the amount provided by the RTV subscription. Unfortunately, the discussions prior to the preparation of the new budget did not take place, so we had to open this matter to the Commission for the National Communities of the National Assembly and in subsequent arrangements. These discussions were only partially successful from the point of view of the national communities, because, I say, we have managed to secure the cash in the amount achieved for the current year, and unfortunately we have not reached the urgently needed level, which was provided with additional funds in 2008. We hope that this, always a problematic relationship of funds with regard to the provision of RTV money and the state budget from the current very loose legal provisions will be much more specific and defined in the context of the new proposals to amend the RTV law. In addition, it should be reiterated that the provision of optimal funds for the implementation of national RTV programmes will still need to be discussed. The same is true in the area of ensuring the economic basis of the national community, where there are many problems. However, since many substantive issues are open in this regard, we would like to take a systematic approach to solving these issues with constructive cooperation from the Government. With regard to basic programmes in the field of education and education, based on the resources provided in the 2010 and 2011 budgets, there should be no specific problems. However, the situation is not so favourable in the field of investment where, despite the proper approach of the competent ministry and some successful projects in the case of both communities, some important issues, such as the Italian language school and the bilingual kindergarten in Dobrovnik, are open. With regard to programmes carried out in cooperation with the Nationality Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, such as the functioning of national communities, the financing of certain institutions for the needs of both communities and so on, we have managed to maintain the level of funding so far, and to a certain extent in the draft budget lines we have implemented the necessary corrections together. Finally, I would like to stress that we are not fully satisfied with the involvement of the national communities in the preparation of the 2010 and 2011 draft budgets, mainly because direct cooperation in the early stages of the programme budget could be very useful in the event of a programme-oriented budget. We therefore recommend that the Government take this comment seriously in the future, because we will be able to resolve a number of conflict issues in a timely and perhaps even more mutually successful way, not in an "ad hoc" way at the last moment. As regards the general guidelines and the scope of the proposed budget, we note that the Government's manoeuvre space was very limited due to the current situation, which made it impossible to fully implement the actual programme orientation. Undoubtedly, certain items could be different, perhaps different on the expenditure side, but mainly with the approach and with the proposed version we agree, despite certain observations and comments that most of our views have been taken into account by the Government in preparing the proposed budgets, we will support the draft budget with our fellow Member of the Italian National Community, and we will decide partially on the quality of our vote on the basis of a specific assessment to the proposed amendments of the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u16	Minister, Minister, secretary, secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Most people who have been worst affected by the crisis do not yet feel that the recession in Slovenia and the European Union has ended. The recovery period is now beginning. Due to the temporary nature of some anti-crisis measures and the expected shift in labour market adjustment, economic growth in the euro area countries is expected to be quite modest next year. Despite the larger decline in Slovenia's GDP in 2009, Slovenia's GDP growth is twofold in 2010 relative to the euro and the EU area, but unemployment and the decline in economic growth in 2009 would be higher if there were no government anti-crisis measures. The European Commission also believes that government measures are an appropriate response to the economic downturn, based on the space for fiscal manoeuvre, with moderate deficits and debt in crisis. According to the European Commission, counter-crisis measures are timely, targeted and partially temporary. However, they must be continued in 2010, as they enabled around 20 000 jobs to be maintained in 2009. In 2009, the government acted counter-cyclically with an exploratory fiscal policy and prevented further declines in economic growth, as the European Commission considers economic growth to be higher by 1.1% of gross domestic product due to fiscal impulses in 2009. Counter-crisis measures to preserve jobs need to be maintained in 2010. The government will also continue its anti-cyclical policy in 2010 to accelerate economic growth. The 2010 budget proposal is the first budget drawn up by this Government. The 2010 budget is based on positive economic growth and is prepared on a compromise between savings, development, anti-crisis measures and, which is also very important, social security. Savings are based on social communication between the social partners and bring about a reduction in commitments in the 2010 budget of €400 million. The proposed savings referred to in the Law on Intervention Measures were necessary due to the economic crisis to release funds for the implementation of anti-crisis measures and for the implementation of development projects. The need for this savings is due to the situation left by the previous government on the basis of salary reform and the increase in employment by more than 6 000 public sector employees, as this has dramatically increased the total volume of gross earnings from public finances. In 2008, the volume of wage funds increased by more than €300 million or 0.9% of gross domestic product, and in 2009, despite government measures, by up to €226 million or a good 0.6% of gross domestic product. In this regard, it should be pointed out that the Government in this area has already begun to reduce the number of employees in the public sector as a whole by 224 - the comparison of December 2008 - August 2009. This is the first government to start limiting public spending by introducing a fiscal rule that will freeze the integral part of the 2010 budget expenditure until 2013 at the level of 2009. This will reduce the public financial deficit in the same way as some other European countries did. On the basis of the fiscal rule, the increase in economic growth will also reduce the public financial deficit faster. This is why it is the first government after independence, which will not increase budget expenditure every year. However, the deficit in 2009 and 2010 on the economic situation is appropriate for counter-crisis and is within the framework of the average of the members of the European Union. As a result, criticism of the state of public finances by the opposition is rather unrealistic. The fact is that revenue without the implementation of the tax reform of the previous mandate in 2010 would be higher by €1.6 billion. While it is true that the tax reform has burdened the economy and, to a lesser extent, the population, but since this tax reform, they have had the richest and so-called tycoons co-created by the previous government. Of course, it is not a problem that the tax reform has burdened the economy, but the problem is that public financial expenditure has not been relatively reduced in the previous mandate. The increase in the expenditure of the consolidated public sector balance by 34% by 2008 in relation to 2004 and the increase in legal obligations has significantly reduced the manoeuvre for this government to operate during the crisis. The European Commission's latest report on the state of public finances shows that the previous government has left a poorer state of public finances than it was handed over in 2004. It is therefore important to stress that the previous government has not made good use of the time to improve the state of public finances, even more so, it has wasted this opportunity. The surplus in the previous mandate should be at least a billion euros, instead the previous government nominally increased the public consolidated debt of the country by almost €1 billion or more than 13%, double Darsa's debt or additionally repay it for an additional €1.4 billion in 2004 according to the situation. Regrettably, she was unable to create a surplus for the wider sector of the country within one year of her mandate. With regard to the last warning, as regards the excessive deficit procedure, it should be confirmed that this warning shows only the need to ensure the sustainability of public finances in the medium and long term. As a result, the Government launched austerity measures in 2009 and this continues in 2010 also with the intervention law. The previous government has rejected warnings about the long-term sustainability of public finances and has waived the medium-term objective of public finances by the end of the mandate. With regard to so many of the constructive proposals that have been put forward by the opposition, it can only be said that these populist measures, which would lead to the collapse of public finances, would not have led to the promotion of economic growth in 2009! As a result, most European countries have not benefited from these measures, nor have they been recommended by the European Commission. In doing so, it should be noted that the opposition's radical proposals on cutting public spending could lead to a decline in economic growth and a new recession. This makes it more appropriate to freeze public consumption. Of course, the government is limited in reducing public spending because the legal obligations already exceed 80% of the state budget. With amendments to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, the former Government has hidden these additional obligations because it has not prepared any changes to the budget for 2009. However, the additional legal obligations in 2009 were due to the pre-election and other changes adopted by the previous government, amounting to almost EUR 400 million. As a result, the current Government has made available a smaller room of manoeuvre for anti-crisis action than was available in 2004. This government, however, does not intend to reduce social security, nor does it intend to reduce pensions or funds for other public services, nor for the municipalities. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] President, are you still holding the meeting?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u17	Yes, Mr. Kontic, proceed, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u18	They're disrupting voices from the right, as usual.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u19	Please respect Mr Kontic's wishes and do not comment on his statements.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u20	The preparation of the development budget already confirms the change of thinking in the preparation of the budget. This budget is divided into 16 priorities and does not take into account the allocation of budgetary money by ministries, as has been the practice of the past. This budget answers the question of what development priorities are. As a result, the 2010 budget is focused on development, savings and social security. While the 2010 and 2011 budgets do not take structural measures into account as they are the subject of social communication, the proposals for structural measures show the seriousness of the implementation of the necessary measures. In the previous mandate, it would be easier to implement these measures, but they have not been implemented. We have also warned of the need to implement structural measures in the previous mandate, together with the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund. If they were implemented during a period of high economic growth, these measures could be milder. Unfortunately, more fundamental reforms need to be carried out with each year of delay. As a result, this government will have to make greater fiscal efforts in difficult times to ensure the sustainability of public finances. Of course, there is a conflict in the budget between the sustainability of public finances, the promotion of economic growth and the preservation of social security. However, it should be noted that social security, together with healthcare, remains one of the major priorities in the budget. Funding for this development policy is planned in the 2010 draft budget of almost €2.6 billion, representing 24.8% of all budget expenditure. The first task in the development policy of social security and health care is to maintain the level of social security achieved, but at the same time to increase the transparency, efficiency and fairness of the acquisition of social benefits. This year, we increased the funds for transfers to the unemployed compared to last year by more than 81%, to more than 180 million euros. While the unemployment rate in Slovenia has increased to 5.9% of people with disabilities in September, still the fourth lowest unemployment rate in the euro area, with an average of 9.6% of the unemployed. A comparison of the 2009 growth forecast for unemployment across the European Union shows that Slovenia will be in the sixth place at the lowest unemployment rate and is expected to be in the ninth place at the lowest unemployment rate in 2010. However, since it is a social democratic government, it will not reduce social inclusion. Structural reforms will only help to reduce the need for social assistance. The development policy of the labour market will play a key role in reducing unemployment. In the development policy of the labour market, resources amounted to €186 million in 2008 and increased to €465 million in 2009 with a second rebalancing. In 2010, however, the level of assets in relation to the 2009 rebalancing is further increasing to EUR 530 million. In particular, funds are being increased to encourage the employment of unemployed persons, public works worth €14 million, equal opportunities, social inclusion of €10 million, transfers of €42 million to the unemployed for the $5 million unemployment guarantee and maintenance fund, to promote employment of €16 million, to ensure equal opportunities for social inclusion of €10 million, and for competitiveness and employment of €15 million. The importance of labour market policy was highlighted at the European Employment Summit in May 2008, 2009, whose main message was that, during the economic crisis affecting the labour market, it was important: for the first time, to preserve and create new jobs; for the second time, to increase the availability of employment mainly for young people and for the third time, to upgrade skills and competences that would meet the needs of the market and promote mobility. Active labour market policy must respond even faster to the needs of employers in times of crisis and increase the involvement of unemployed and employees in employment policy programmes that will increase their employability. The current government is aware of this because in the package of anti-crisis measures, the Law on partial full-time subsidisation has been prepared and the Law on partial reimbursement has replaced wages. The aim of both laws was to mitigate the consequences of the economic crisis and to prevent the mass layoffs of workers due to the current reduction in the number of orders and consequently the size of businesses. According to the Ministry, some 20,000 jobs have been retained by both measures. Due to the need to maintain these two anti-crisis measures, €90 million is planned for intervention measures in the labour market in 2010. In 2011, however, they estimate that intervention measures in the labour market will not be necessary. However, the Government will implement structural measures in the labour market by introducing small jobs and promoting the employment of young people, and which is also an important, permanently unemployed people. It should also be stressed that the Government does not ignore the younger, educated generations. An amendment to the Act on Scholarships was prepared to increase the number of beneficiaries at the Ministry by raising the censorship to obtain a state grant and to provide an expected increase of 4,900 scholarships. Compared to 2008, funding for scholarships increased from €95 million to €112 million in 2009. In 2010, grants continue to increase further to €120 million. Despite the great social security commitments, it is particularly important to stress that the Government maintains the developmental orientation of the budget. In doing so, an important part of the development component also falls back on the investments to be made in 2010 and the resources for their implementation are provided in the State budget. In 2010, the draft budget provides €1.7 billion, representing 4.6% of gross domestic product and 16% of the total national budget. The increase in investment expenditure from €495 million in 2009 to €740 million in 2010 and investment transfers from €732 million in 2009 to €934 million will have an important impact on the promotion of economic growth. In doing so, the development policy of transport and transport infrastructure, which is the most increasing of all development policies compared to 2009, needs to be highlighted by EUR 243 million in 2010 compared to 2009, resulting from faster financing for the reconstruction or construction of railway infrastructure. It is also noted that the increase in highway funding is increasing in 2010 from 57 million in 2008 to 113 million in 2010. If we show or look at the development policy of entrepreneurship and the policy of higher education, science, technology and the information society together, more than one billion euros or 3.1% of gross domestic product are earmarked for developmental conversion in 2010. In 2008, 777 million euros or 2.1% of gross domestic product were realised for this same purpose. As of 2010, resources for the development of science, technology, entrepreneurship and competitiveness and higher education are increasing by more than €330 million or 1% of gross domestic product. In the field of energy, the Government is working to develop a public-private partnership model, where it will also increase investment in research to identify potential energy stocks and develop technologies, to exploit renewable energy sources and to use energy efficiency. Despite the efforts made by the public partnership model, energy funds are increasing markedly. Compared to 2008, the funds are even tripled. While energy funds were only €10 million in 2008 and €19 million in 2009 and €32 million in 2010. Most of these resources are designed to promote renewable energy sources. The means for the development policy of education, sport and culture in 2010 and 2011 are intended to carry out tasks and programmes in the field of formal and informal education, sport, culture and the regulation of the system of support activities and administration in those areas. 90% of all expenditure is earmarked for fixed legal obligations, namely salaries, current transfers of public educational and cultural institutions and social transfers. Funding for the development policy of agriculture, forestry, fisheries and nutrition is increasing from €460 million in 2008 to €481 million in 2009 and €497 million in 2010 and €500 million in 2011. The Safe Food and Veterinary Programme is of great importance in development policy, for which no changes have been made in the 2010 and 2011 supplementary draft budget. Compared to the last budget adopted for 2009, more resources are provided in 2010 mainly for the monitoring of food and feed, the disposal of animal waste, the control of zoonose agents and inspections. With regard to environmental and spatial policy, it should be noted that environmental policy must be a framework that will allow sustainable development and transition to a low-carbon, environmentally sound society. The policy focuses on climate change, nature, biodiversity, water, waste and industrial pollution in order to improve the quality of life. In achieving the objectives of sustainable use of natural resources and the prevention of environmental pollution, investment in drinking water supply, separation and treatment of municipal, waste and precipitation waters and municipal waste management, provision of non-profit housing, promotion of active land policy and projects for the effective use of spatial potentials and the creation of a quality built-up environment have an important role to play. In order to achieve the objectives of environmental and spatial policy, budgetary resources are quite constant in the period 2006-2011 and are moving towards €147 million in 2006, following the proposed €267 million in 2010 and €226 million in 2011. The draft budgets for 2010 and 2011 are also stable in relation to 2009 as almost 17% of the funds are foreseen in 2010 and the financial framework for 2009 is unchanged in 2011. The reduction in resources with the supplementary draft budgets is minimal, a reduction of €1.5 million in each year, focusing on EU programmes on sustainable management with natural resources and the regulation of the environment and spatial policy system, as the EU is increasing 38.5% in 2010 and 10.3% in 2011. With regard to development policy, national security, defence and foreign affairs should be mentioned that the primary defence task will be to gradually build the capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces to carry out collective national defence tasks and to participate in international operations and missions. In the area of national security, special attention will be paid to the permanent and qualitative limitation of organised economic and financial crime and corruption, police surveillance, private security and detective activities reforms. The government will seek to raise standards in the field of asylum policy and immigration of refugees and foreigners. In the field of external matters, a government priority will be to increase the efficiency of economic diplomacy. By implementing the key programmes set out in the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters, the Government will improve the preparedness and response of the forces to protect, rescue and assist climate change disasters. Development policy, governance of the public administration system has three main objectives. These are: the rationalisation of public administration, the establishment and functioning of e-government and the prudent treatment of real property. Development policy, strengthening the institutions of the rule of law, freedom and security has three key tasks: decommissioning the courts, setting up and functioning the National Investigation Office, and improving the situation in the institutions of prison sentences. Of course, the 2010 and 2011 budgets do not yet foresee structural reforms that the Government will be preparing over the next two years. The preparation of structural reforms will be crucial in the next two years to increase the sustainability of public finances and to increase the competitiveness of the economy. Structural adjustments over the next two years will take place in the following four areas. Urgent institutional adjustments in the management of public institutions, the promotion of entrepreneurship, competitiveness and transparency of the labour market, adaptations to transport and energy infrastructures for effective environmental and climate policy and adaptations to the social security and health system. In the first group of important institutional adjustments, six measures are taken, the establishment of a Public Agency for the Management of State-owned Enterprises and the transformation of the Capital and Compensation Society, the establishment of a Public Fund for the Management of Real Estate, the strengthening of financial services control institutions, the adaptation of control in the field of network services, communications, energy and transport, where the proposal is to carry out a reflection and by 2010 a procedure is initiated to bring the supervisory institutions into line with each other in the field of telecommunications, energy and transport. It is because of all that has been stated in the Group of Social Democrats that the Government has drawn up good budgets for 2010 and 2011 in spite of the difficult circumstances, and we will support them in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u22	Your Honor, the vice president. Dear Minister. State secretaries. Nicely greeted. Colleagues and colleagues. Of course, for the preparation of any budget, and especially a two-year budget, it is important, in particular, to the starting points on which these two budgets are based and also to anticipate what will happen in the future, that they can also assess the real revenue and, of course, the need for expenditure, so allow me to start by highlighting some of the starting points that this government has had on the basis of public finances and the stability of public finances in the past and, of course, the challenges it faces in creating these two documents. Let me underline here again, and I will probably continue to be through the text, that these are two budgets that are judging and aiming at the heart of this government's mandate. It is a key implementing document of this government, from which, of course, it is illustrated in numbers also all that the government writes and talks about in its strategic and principled documents. If we look a little bit at the state of public finances and also respond to this criticism, which the coalition likes to use, if Slovenia is in an unenviable position with regard to the stability of public finances, I would highlight some important statistics and achievements at the time of the break in the mandates of both governments. First, let us see, although the growth of gross domestic product is not a sufficient condition for prosperity in the country, an important condition is needed for prosperity. Without adequate growth and without adequate gross domestic product, there is no prosperity. Of course, that's not enough. There's a lot to do. If we look at the growth of gross domestic product, this graph, which is summarized from statistics, Slovenia is drawn with blue and the European Union average with red. If we look at it, we can find that, practically throughout the previous mandate, Slovenia's gross domestic product grew by about 3% faster than Europe, so we also reduced the development backlog. We came in four years from about 75% of Europe's development to a good 90%. And that must be a good first point. By the way, let's stop at the next forecast. We are further shown by these same data that we will fall faster than other Member States of the European Union and that we will also achieve a record unenviable decline of 7.3% of gross domestic product this year. It is important that there has been a change of government and, last but not least, when these development documents are prepared, to one point in the thinking of the preparers, czech, after long growth, we will fall into harmony with what I think is wrong. Let us look at another matter, look at the country’s deficit or, as a result, public debt. Including for 2007 and 2008, public spending has been limited to the fact that the balance has been positive, that is to say that we have no longer recorded the deficit, but we have been able to talk about the surplus. In 2007 and 2008, the budget was surplus. This has also been found by the current government, and we are also at the time of the consideration of the final account before the recent one that the coalition has not confirmed, and the government itself notes that the state budget has had about 65 million euro surpluses. It was possible to consolidate public finances in such a way that despite reduced taxes, this was also recognised by the prime minister on behalf of the Slovenian Social Democrats, that we succeeded, despite the fact that we have been taxing the economy and the household, that is to say, the real population has managed to bring the expenditure into line with the revenues, which means that there has been more than expenditure in the state budget. This has created a budgetary surplus, not to mention a public financial surplus which was undeniable in 2007. It has also managed to curb the country's expenditure despite congestion and to maintain revenue, although some taxes have been reduced. This is a good journey for the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, and if people are burdened, it is also a good way to raise quality of life and for prosperity. As a result, public debt fell to 21.5% of gross domestic product in 2007 because there was no deficit, on the contrary, there was even a surplus, so the public debt fell to 21.5% of gross domestic product in 2007 and fell over the last term, as shown in the first half of this graph, from around 25% of gross domestic product to 21.5% of gross domestic product. Public debt was declining. By the way, look at the forecasts for the coming years, which say that public debt will increase dramatically, already this year is already well above 30% of gross domestic product and in 2010 and 2011, that is, in the years when we talk about this budget, it reached almost 40% and also exceeded 40% of gross domestic product. Medklic, it is possible to not manage expenditure, it is possible to afford spending and non-saving at the expense of burdening through public debt the coming, not just generations, all working in the future or, say, productively working, those who create added value and consequently fill the budget and will also service this public debt. It's easy to spend until there's more to spend while it's available. And whoever's talking about the legacy should say that we have about 40% of the gross domestic debt product in crisis years. 40% of the 21.5 to 60, as far as Maastricht is allowed, is 40% of the gross domestic product, which is to say and write around €13 billion. More than that, I was wrong. This is strong across this figure, if we know that gross domestic product is about €36 billion. If we look at another stability parameter or some basis on which it can be built, of course, there is a share of public consumption in gross domestic product; it has always fallen. He was operating a stable system, creating more than was being used for public consumption. This is, in fact, one of the basics of a healthy economy that is no longer being wasted than it is being created in the country, especially for the functioning of the public sector. And look at the consequences: unemployment has dropped dramatically and reached record low levels, 65,000 unemployed at the end of the term. And we can also look at the numbers on work activity. More and more people were solving their problem or their social position in the workplace, not in transfers. Allow me to repeat here once again that for the welfare of people, for the quality of life in the country, the growth of gross domestic product and all the numbers I have said are not sufficient conditions, but a condition is needed. Without the growth of gross domestic product, without the control of public finances, policies for the welfare of people cannot be implemented. And these two budgets also inherit some of the measures that the previous government has also taken to ensure people's well-being. All measures relating to the diet were aimed at this, and measures concerning free child protection have been targeted at this. Public sector wage measures have also removed a mantra of the public sector from history, when wages have been otherwise coordinated with the public sector, by agreeing to harmonise to eliminate wage imbalances and certain public sector injustices. Public sector wage reform has also been part of providing what it has done in the past with social agreement and social dialogue. A number of other measures have been taken in the past, from vineyards to the removal of various bureaucratic barriers, all with the aim of allowing the state's public financial position at that time, that is to say, with a view to ensuring that this situation also results in prosperity for the people. It is true that certain processes were initiated, with which I, as a member of the Government myself, was not satisfied at the time. One of these is the restructuring of the economy. It is true that we have only just begun to step on the path of knowledge, on innovation, on the technological development of a fundamental economy. And it is true that this is a process. I hope that this process will also partly continue with this government, but I do not believe that it will be completed during the period of this government, because it is a ten-year process that is very complex and not only a matter of some political will but also of changing values and a broader approach for businesses and citizens. It is clear from the above that the stability of public finances and trends was good at the time of this government's appearance and at the planning of the government's development policies. It is true, however, that there was a crisis that did not originate in Slovenia, which did not originate in Slovenia and which drew Slovenia as an open economy and as part of Europe and not least of the world. We are dealing with a number of people who have been hit by this crisis and that is why there have been a lot of problems, order declines, a lot of mistrust in financial institutions, credit crunches and so on. However, in the Slovenian economy and last but not least in Slovenian public finances, it was a good basis for solving these problems. Therefore, at the time of departure, the Government launched and commissioned the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development to suggest what to do in the face of the upcoming crisis and then the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development said two possible scenarios, that was in autumn 2008. The first scenario is that the Government will immediately launch measures to re-supply the credit crunch and relieve the economy in order to allow for further economic activity, perhaps in a slightly reduced form, but economic activity, which would not be the same if there were no such measures and thus mitigate the fall of Slovenia into the abyss, the so-called 'free fall', as well as the prime minister himself. The Office for Macroeconomic Analysis suggested a number of measures in this direction, so how to maintain economic activity despite the crisis but to a slightly reduced extent. These were measures for the tax burden of the economy, for the more active role of the government and also of the countries in the financial sector in terms of guarantees and other measures for the release of credit crunches. These were also Kenyan measures in terms of investments in that development infrastructure that will not only be needed during the crisis but will also be needed further by generations: energy, transport, information infrastructure. Of course, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis also cited another scenario. It is that nothing happens to wait for us to fall into a stalemate or even a severe fall in economic growth and then save us from some stationary state, from some total stalemate the economy forward. And that's what happened. I'm sorry. The European institutions have not announced this. Even at the end of last year, more encouraging figures were announced for Slovenia, even such that there will be no recession or negative multi-month or multi-annual negative growth or fall of gross domestic product. Why? Because others have also assessed the situation in Slovenia in such a way that it can be avoided by appropriate measures. But it didn't happen. I would not like to repeat that the previous government has already taken some measures that have had a positive impact and have been summarised by the new government. This is primarily a guarantee measure for all the roles of Slovenian citizens in banks, an unlimited guarantee of the state and guarantee of EUR 12 billion for the Slovenian economy by the State. However, some of the measures proposed by the previous government have not been summarised by the current government. This is mainly about measures in terms of tax relief, tax reductions in Slovenia. The reduction of tax rates in Slovenia can also bring about a very short reduction in revenue in the budgets of this tax source. However, it is certain that the reduction of taxes can activate the economy and, as a result, bring more inflows to the medium, if not to the short term. And we believed at the time that the decommissioning of the economy could maintain economic activity and, as a result, even more inflows into the state budget than if we let the economy settle down. I'm sorry it happened. Less than 4.3% of this year's economic growth is due not only to the financial and global and European crisis, but at least half of this figure is due to inadequate and untimely action by this government. This new government has not only faced this tax reform of the former government, which has reduced taxes. She also faced some laws that wanted to eliminate certain injustices and raise the standard of people in terms of, as I have already said, free student diet, child protection and so on. If the Government felt that it could not afford this during the crisis, it could also come in the context of the rebalancing last year with a package of intervention laws and say, okay, gentlemen, that was right and possible during the conjuncture, and last but not least we have been involved in supporting these measures in Parliament. It's time to share at the time of the konjunkture. However, at the time of the recession, we must manage certain costs and therefore give up. But you didn't do it. However, you read over and over again to the previous government that it has caused these pressures on the expenditure side of the budget and the resulting problem in which you are. That is why I think we should start a policy on three key points in the past year. We have also proposed this in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but unfortunately it has not been accepted. The first measures are the release of the credit crunch. This can be done on the one hand with a guarantee and on the other hand with the active role of the State as the largest owner in both national financial institutions or banks. It is a direct scandal that you have politically elected the President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank for more than a year. The Bank was headless, without leadership and without the appropriate measures to resupply the credit crunch or service the economy that was most needed by the economy during the crisis. Instead of being the first criterion for the selection of the President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank to deal effectively with the credit crunch, how it would provide the necessary money to the Slovenian economy and people, you have dealt with what policy options will be. Finally, Mr Veselinovich won, who, as elected Member, occupied this throne. Similar personnel calvaries have occurred, of course, in Slovenian railways as well as in a number of other companies, but I will not talk about it. You can see what was at the forefront of the government at the time of the deepest crisis. How to share electoral prey, how to dismember the interests of the Slovenian economy, but not how to respond to the challenges of the crisis. And that's why we're here, respected where we are, and that's why we have a billion 800 million or a good billion 800 million deficits already foreseen for next year and so on. That's it. That is why I have made this introduction to move on to this document, which shows a sad picture and sad forecasts for public finances in the future. This document is intended to focus on budget-oriented results. But I, Your Honor, ask rhetorically what are the results, what do you want to result in the end, because the results are oriented towards the budget. If we want to have certain priorities, we should set ourselves some goals, some criteria and say, okay, the results-oriented budget will follow the goal, I don't know that by the end of 2010, 20% are less unemployed, that the added value for the employee is so much and so much higher if you talk about the technological breakthrough, etc. There are no such objectives and neither are the criteria for assessing these objectives. It is more or less copied priorities from strategic documents, which are not shown in numbers, and are not seen in any other actions than in pretty words. If you are talking about a new approach, we should, for the first time, amend the law that governs the preparation of the budget at all. This budget is based on the old Public Finance Act, which, in article 11 or 10, sets out how the budget is drawn up by budget consumers, etc., not by priorities as you say it is ready. However, there was an attempt. A lot of people wasted their time and work. I am aware that a number of working groups have been formed across different departments, that in the end they have prepared for this phase, that they have taken the Ministry of Finance into their own hands and prepared a budget on the old foundations in fact in record time. So, nothing, my dear, from this to the objectives of a targeted budget. And I ask you: is not your assessment that this year, when we are struggling with rising unemployment, the key objective of new jobs? We would write down because there are strong millions of euros for various development projects, as you say, how many jobs will you create with this budget in 2010 and how many jobs in 2011, how much will you increase the added value of an employee in the Slovenian economy by means of these measures when you say you will invest in technological development and so on. None of this, I'm afraid, is in these objectives. What the President of the Committee on Finance, the former President of the Government and the Minister of Finance said is the biggest deficit in this budget, both for 2010 and for 2011. The fact that there is less development investment in this budget than there is a deficit, which means that part of the deficit is used for current consumption, and development investments are less than deficits. That's the first indicator of public finances breakdown. It is more than obvious that despite efforts - I cannot say that this effort at least does not show - does not control expenditure to increase in 2010 and revenues to decrease. In 2010, there is more expenditure than in 2010, even half a billion more, and the same is true in 2011. However, revenues are significantly lower, with around €200 million less revenue in 2010 than they were in 2011. It is more than clear if there is less income that there should be drastically less expenditure. We also told the Slovenian Democratic Party how we picture it. Not only in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but the entire opposition has proposed an amendment that weighs €800 million, which would put this deficit at the level of a good 5% gross domestic product, or nominally at the level of €800 million, on a somehow manageable maastricht criterion of 3% of gross domestic product. Where we took - we took on current expenditure and non-productive investments, i.e. those that contribute nothing to economic growth. I think it's possible to wait a year for those investments. In public they talked about renovations of various kitchens and elevators and so on. Where do we see the possibility of reducing these current costs? More than I am sure that the crisis is an opportunity to limit employment, not employment, but also employment and the structure of the state administration as a whole. I think that we could debirocratise this country more decisively, the crisis gives us an opportunity to do so. I was glad that we have not already taken advantage of the crisis economy as an opportunity to do so in the reform of the state administration. According to my assessment, the number of ministries could be reduced to a maximum of 6 to 8; I think we could have eliminated at least half of the institutions, funds, public agencies, and many different directors, that is, the roosters, in their piles of manure. People, too, would be less burdened by a variety of consents, procedures, and tasks that they often experience in front of the windows, and that also consumes a certain amount of money because they have to wait somewhere and deal with some bureaucracy, instead of doing something more useful then. Instead, we read in structural adjustments that the government will set up new agencies. Previously mentioned are some new agencies that will have state property, state property, some new agencies that will manage all public procurements that will completely control all control in Slovenia, all supervisory institutions say. You want to do some para-state in these agencies, a para-state that will, of course, be directly in the hands of the state, but far from the perceptions that you will avoid them and have an impact. Instead of managing expenditure in this way, new taxes are introduced in the country and the tax burden of people is increasing. Let us see already in the 2010 budget, where it says that other taxes on goods and services will be raised by €120 million, mainly by the environmental burden on CO2 emissions. From €30 million to € 151 million. I asked the distinguished Prime Minister of the Government in my last oral question: Dear President, what goods, what services will be encouraged in Slovenia and how much will this 120 million tax be imposed? And I asked him, "Is it not possible that this is what the Director of the Energy Directorate is predicting that the prices of fuel oil will come closer to oil prices?" That's what they say they're going to be up 70%? He was quiet. To pensioners, recipients of social transfers, i.e. school students, scholarships, you reduce the way wages or pensions and contributions are coordinated and, on the other hand, you introduce new taxes that will dramatically affect the quality of people's lives. Well, that's not all. In the budgetary memorandum, it is noted that the Government intends to apply a real estate tax in 2011 which will bring half a percent of the gross domestic product to more revenue in the budgets of municipalities and countries than it has so far. We're talking about about about 180 million new taxes. After reading also the forecasts of the Energy Minister or Director-General, Mr Kopač, that he is also thinking about revolving resources and efficient use of energy, then we can see that this tax gap will increase next year. Even as far as the globe is concerned, these fines, which people pay on the roads, promise worse times than ever. Statistics also show an increase in the collection of these fines and the cashing of these invoices on the roads. I think that we are becoming a country where some things, some rights acquired when we talk about pensions, this is a right acquired, this is not a transfer that can be deleted in one way or another, where this will be affected and, consequently, the tax burden will increase. Let me stop a little bit at European funds. It is true that in this budget you are planning a relatively ambitious drawdown of European funds, but you are not able to publish the most basic call for the development of regions from which municipalities are promising a number of investment projects where many people could get a job and eventually move the development situation of Slovenia forward. There is no such invitation to tender. There were other calls. And look at the call for centres of excellence, where a number of top research and technologically well-oiled institutions in the country have registered, have received several Ljubljana institutes. Of the 26 projects that were top-notch, good, from all corners of Slovenia, only the electorate received the money. And if that's how you imagine a technological breakthrough, then equip it to be a technological breakthrough for the electorate. And these examples show that we can very little hope from making more effective use of European funds or just positively surprise us. Let's look at these dry, but catastrophic numbers. In both years, you will increase the country's deficit or follow the country's deficit of €1.8 billion in 2010 and €1.6 billion in 2011, a total of almost €3.5 billion, which is about 10% of GDP. 10% of GDP in two years will only be less created than produced in two years only in the budget, let alone in all others. Alarm data and conscious violation of the Maastricht criteria. For both years, they are higher deficits than the Maastricht criteria that someone has not invented because they want to make the bureaucratic life of countries worse, but because they are some basic criteria for the stability of public finances. One more thing. The public debt service item will increase enormously in the coming years. If this item was 2,9 million and 352 million euros in public debt in 2010, it will rise to €670 million in 2011, which means that 320 million will be absorbed by the investment development part of the budget. Why? Because you say you've introduced a fiscal rule of the same expenditure. And if the public debt service expenditure will have to be more than 320 million than in 2009, then they will not be earmarked for investments. This budget item will therefore be one of the most important budgetary items in the country. May I remind you, Your Honor, of the conclusions of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. I will read only the first in the last sentence: "The deficit of the state budget and the public financial deficits for 2010 and 2011 are significantly higher than the level of the Maastricht criteria and are inconsistent with the recommendations of the Stability and Growth Pact, so they significantly threaten the stability of public finances in the Republic of Slovenia." For this reason and for many other reasons in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support these two documents unless the opposition amendment on the management of the expenditure of this budget is supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thank you. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. A year ago, a ministerial team was appointed, and the government coalition took responsibility for this country. The mandate took place at the time of the economic and financial crisis in the world, so we were forced to adopt as many as two budget rebalancings for 2009. With the first spring, the impact of anti-crisis measures increased the deficit to 3.4% of GDP. The adoption of the second balance in mid-summer was mainly necessary due to lower budgetary revenues and inflows to the pension and health allowance. However, the public deficit has risen to 5.5% of GDP. With a view to overcoming and mitigating the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, we have been forced to adopt and implement measures aimed at assisting the financial and business sectors and people worth over €10 billion. The measures adopted have particularly helped to preserve many jobs and provided assistance to the socially weak. The crisis has been reflected in the increase in unemployment, with an increase in social transfers and a reduction in tax revenues also affecting the budget. Undoubtedly, we were forced into the above-mentioned rebalancing because of the bad legacy of the former government. This has already been most evident in the 2009 state budget. This budget was based on unrealistic foundations and calculations were made without coverage. A total of € 1.6 billion is to be allocated to the revenue and expenditure side of the negative heritage. They had to cover pre-election promises, poorly negotiated wage increases in the public sector and provide funds for a number of overstretched investment projects, which ended many times in payment of client services from the former coalition. Let me mention that the Court of Auditors has also found that the State budget for 2008 did not report a surplus of €65 million, but a deficit of 43 million. Moreover, the previous government has also covered the actual state of the budget with changes in the procurement legislation, as the deficit of the state budget, if not for the adoption of new rules, would amount to €65 million or a total of €108 million. In the Group of Members, we really expected some irregularities, as the audit of the final accounts for 2007 showed a number of irregularities in the functioning of the Janša Government, which dealt with taxpayers’ resources quite domestically. The alleged surpluses of the state budget shown by Janša's government were the villages of Pomecin, namely, they served only to improve its public image and Janša and its ministers were given the opportunity to describe the period of their rule, according to one of the former ministers as a golden age. Today, it turns out that the former government left behind empty jaws or that the emperor was naked during the time of the "fat cows" and the abundant harvest. It is also worth noting that, despite the favourable four years at its disposal, his government has not implemented a single structural reform, while the government has already offered two necessary reforms in a much more time-consuming manner: pension and health, which are already under public scrutiny. The crisis has shown that Slovenia needs more adjustments. The planned adjustments also led to a completely new approach in the preparation of the budget. Programme budgets for 2010 and 2011 are targeted for the first time. A new classification of budgetary expenditure is introduced: classification by development policies, development programmes and development sub-programmes. The budget resources will therefore be made available, not by individual ministries, but by development policies. In the Group of Members, we are indeed pleased that this government is giving an inappropriately greater emphasis to the important development investments that have been neglected so far, especially in the field of rail and energy infrastructure. We estimate that the budgets for 2010 and 2011 will be the key budget for this mandate. It's the years when we feel the crisis the most. We will be forced to make structural adjustments and define development policies that will not only try to preserve the economic potential but will, and should also, increase it and ensure budgetary sustainability. It sounds like a mission impossible, but this must be a challenge for this government and this coalition. And we must not despair that nothing can be done. Structural reforms will be necessary if the Government wants to implement these two budgets, thus reaching out to areas that have so far been largely untouchable. The right moment to adopt structural reforms leading to an efficient country and to a competitive economy has been and is, in particular, at a time when government high economic growth and overall living conditions are favourable. Sorry we missed that. Since structural reforms were not done at the time, we must do them today in times of crisis. Therefore, it is unfair for the coalition to show the government slowness and irresistibility, since today it is more difficult than it was four years ago. In addition to the fully unprepared public sector and to consumption, consumption and reallocation of the country-oriented economy, the real sector of the economy has also been directed in recent years to a number of individual interests of managers only to provide funds for corporate ownership. And this was followed irresponsiblely by banks, including mostly state-owned banks. Instead of spending money on restructuring, new equipment, education of workers and also higher wages of workers, or increasing the added value of the employee, these funds have unfortunately erupted in the market markets. However, this coalition has made the necessary structural changes. And that's positive. This does not create a new difference between the social state and development, as we are acting in both directions with the measures. The government estimates that the 2010 and 2011 budgets are still an acceptable compromise on the anti-crisis, development, social and still austerity budgets. With the adoption of the supplementary draft budget, the government and this coalition have consolidated sufficiently and identified what are the priorities and what development policies will bring Slovenia forward in the coming years. In the Parliamentary Group, we really welcome the Government's efforts to reach an agreement with the social partners on a slower growth in transfers for social purposes and pensions, as well as slower increases in the salaries of public servants. This means that pensions will increase by half the wage growth and public servants' salaries by half of inflation, as well as social transfers. The final harmonisation of the salaries of public officials is foreseen in early October 2011. During this time, there will be limited regression growth and public servants will also not be able to obtain an additional work performance. These are unpleasant but urgent measures. In this way, we have cleared up the public financial deficit and perhaps found some room for investment and anti-crisis action. We also welcome the increase in funding for higher education, science and technology and the labour market. In order to make the budget as developmental as possible, the Government for Science and Technology Development has earmarked additional resources to make an important contribution to the increased intensity of technological projects in the development centres of enterprises. Support for the economy and entrepreneurship is also increasing. In the Group of Members, we are also pleased with the provision of funds for investment in health care and the preservation of resources in primary and secondary education. We would also be even more pleased if this government could make enough effort and reduce the resources for, we believe, not the necessary defence investment. In the Parliamentary Group, however, we are really reminding the Government that in the supplementary bill proposal we should decide whether we should continue to tighten or tighten the belt further. We regret that she did not try to reduce some of the budgetary expenditure in 2010 and 2011. In its coalition coordination, the Zares Group expressed its expectations that at least EUR 50 million of savings or investments that are not necessarily necessary in these times of crisis will be found or found within the budget without the appropriate legal basis and heritage of the past government. The Group has thoroughly combed several budget lines and development programmes and has warned the Government of what does not belong to priorities. What is necessary and what is not, the Government should make a final decision on its own, as the Group of Members really does not have all the necessary documents and data. Sorry we didn't make it. While the government has found additional savings to reduce material costs and to move some planned investments for a year, the final balance saved is far too low, which is only around €10 million, which is not enough. In view of forecasts that are not pink, the sustainability of public finances will be a major test. In the Zares Group, we also draw our attention to the excessive expectations of the influx of European funds in 2010, which are estimated to be 1.1 billion euros, and in 2011 the assessment is similar. We remind the Government that the greatest risks to a worse realization than planned and expected in the budgets are right on the European Union funds. The Zares Group points out that there is still a whole range of projects and investments that have been included illegally in the budget as a legacy of the previous government, beyond public tendering and without legal basis, without meeting the demanding conditions. In order to carry out as many projects as possible, such a ruckus can also be very dangerous, according to our assessment of the risk and for it in the Group of Members, we really do not want to take responsibility, which is why we are also making public this time. Members of the Committee on Local Self-Government have already expressed their dissatisfaction at one of the meetings with the Government's report on the absorption of cohesion policy funds. Our fellow Member, Vila Trophynik, has pointed out the problems mentioned several times. Unfortunately, these warnings leave us more or less alone. In this context, we also stress that European funds in future budgets represent the largest share of investment funds, which will result in harm if anything happens to us also due to illegal and market-based legal bases in the budget of the projects included, even more so as the state will not successfully draw on these funds. In doing so, it is recalled that projects which comply with the rules and are already in progress for the financial period 2007-2013 need to be implemented, and that the remaining ones will need to be assessed whether they are sufficient to meet the requirements of the European Union and will have to be reimbursed from the European Union budget for their implementation. Despite these expressed concerns in the Group of Members, we really support and do not invest in the draft budgets for 2010 and 2011.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I hereby interrupt the joint presentation of the views of the groups on agenda items 22 and 23. We continue only with the 22nd item of the agenda - consideration of the 2010 supplementary draft budget. We are moving on to a debate on the supplementary draft budget. We will discuss individual parts of the supplementary draft budget and the amendments tabled. As individual parts, they consider the general part, the specific part and plans of the development programmes. We are moving on to the general part of the supplementary draft budget, not yet on the amendments, but only on the consideration of the general work. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. The application for discussion shall be open. Mr. Puksich, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, Secretary of State. The debate on the general part of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 is, in fact, one of the tougher discussions after 14 years, which I am in the National Assembly. One of the toughest since the rebalancing that was adopted in 2009 is simply continuing the debt trend and wood into a catastrophic situation. Starting with revenue and expenditure for 2010. Revenues of €8.6 billion, of which 7.4 and some, and expenditure of € 10.4 billion. Of this, if we subtract or look at the amount of current expenditure and current transfers, 8.3 billion. If we look at these two figures between tax revenue, that means what we're picking up, and between current expenditure and current transfers, that's what we're spending. From 7.4 to 8.3 is 11% minus. This means that in 2010 we will spend 11% more than we have earned. According to the household, each household will spend 11% more than it brings into the household. 11% means that such a household or such an economy goes against bankruptcy. Remember Friday's debate in the National Assembly when the government coalition did not vote in favour of the 2008 final bill? What was the relationship between the taxes collected and what we spent? We have collected €7.7 billion and spent 7 billion. Or else, we have 10% left. So the economy or the household or the company used 10% less than they produced. So it worked on plus 10. I'm not going to talk about the nine now, because the nine is running, and I'm going to do this comparison later, but what the ruling coalition didn't accept did not accept the final bill, which was based on the fact that more levies have been drained than has been consumed. Now this same ruling coalition is proposing a 2010 budget, and since it is only 2010, I will not talk about 2011; so for 2010, let us adopt the budget, where we will spend 11% more than we will get. Let's move on. During the eighteenth years, from 1990 to the end of 2008, what you did not confirm on Friday, we produced about €8 billion in debt in this beloved country. Good. There's bank rehabilitation, rail rehabilitation, highway construction, and so on. Oh, yeah. €8 billion in eighteen years. This was a year per capita, if there are 2 million of us, just over 200 euros per year per capita. What does this 2010 budget give us, what do we owe to the population? 1.88 billion, almost 2 billion. How many of us are there? Less than $2 million. This means 1,000 euros per capita per year. At a four-time rate, given what we used to produce in the early 1800 ’ s. And talk about 5%. You know what 5% is? Out of 40 billion, the whole of GDP is this debt, and this is what this government is proposing to us. Not 5% of, I don't know, income or 5% of expenses. And given that we have this experience because it brought us 1.8 billion in 2009, or it takes us 1.8 billion to the end of an additional debt. Or a little bit simpler - 8 billion of us became indebted in the 18s. If we continue with debt of 2 billion a year, we will, somewhere I have even read, in 2014, arrive at about €16 billion in debt and perhaps more, that is close to 45 to 50% of gross domestic product. Today, one of the discussers said that much work had been done, that the spirit must be understood at that time and that we really deserve one big commendation because we will share 10 billion euros. So positive thoughts. Of these 10 billion positive thoughts to divide, I'm really scared. I'm afraid for the young, and I'm afraid for the retired. The fact that some made promises before the elections between milk and milk, thousands of euros of pensions and so on, was anyway nonsense. But we know, it was just political points. But with this budget of 200 farmers, who have 170, 180 euros in pension, and those who have 300, 400 euros in pension, in 2014, you will no longer have this, half of which you will no longer have. Half of that! This gives us the budget proposed by this government coalition for 2010. Catastrophe! On the other hand, if we look at that in the 2010 budget, the government coalition expects us to receive a billion EUR 150 million from the European community. Do you remember what we said recently? How distasteful was the previous government, how it did not prepare projects, how European funds did not draw on them. We know how European funds are obtained. After completion of operations. And everything you've been saying isn't true. Of course, I am concerned about where these European funds will come from in the next budget, because there are simply no calls. There were no calls for economic centres, no calls for regional development, only for centres of excellence. Do you remember that we have only three centres of excellence in Ljubljana. We have to close the University of Maribor. Really? This is a completely incompetent facility. And I don't even know what he's doing, why he's spending public money. By you, of course. Or Gregor the Dove. Because it's a new paradigm: lie and rule. After him. And that was even supposed to be a greeting at the convention. Please! And, of course, the result of all of this is such a budget. My fellow Member, Bogovic, who is today in connection with the agricultural disaster and what is happening with agriculture in Maribor at the round table organised by the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, is on Friday, I think Friday, calling for the key issues to be settled together by the position and opposition and for this country to be done. And it's wrong for colleagues and colleagues to work just to stay in the government's saddle for a while. It's not good. It's not good for citizens and citizens. Because in the end, you know, the old Slovenian proverb says, "Three births make a farm, and only one and very soon spend it." I know farms like this because I come from the countryside. Really. They were so rich that the son of this farm declared when he ate salami that they were so rich that he didn't have to eat bread with it. Today this farm is gone. I'm really afraid you're doing this to my country. After all, I'm going to say that it's not the worst thing about Pahor wasting part of Slovenian territory and part of the sea, that it's going to be even worse that this country is "getting completely on the deep end." Tell me what you're counting on. After 45 years of Yugoslavia, we raised about $20 billion in debt, which is €16 billion, let's say around here. These 16 billion have already been produced and the next 8 will be produced by you in the next four years or five years by 2013. Whether you're in power or not, it doesn't matter anymore. It's important that we go bankrupt too quickly. That's the biggest problem. Today, by some coalition MPs, you hear the testimony of the previous government, okay, yes, because everything was not as it should have been, far away from it, but, hell, it's not all guilty, it was only four years in power in such or different combination, respected colleagues and colleagues from the Liberal Democracy, 34 LDS Members and Members sat in here, 34. I mean, please. And of course SD, LDS, etc., you've always been in the government coalition. Even when Elan, TAM, Metalna, etc., and all of this you allowed, even more, you changed the penal law that those thieves who put it on their knees were convicted and did not sit for one minute because they were both poor, Uroš or Jančič, Pavel, Koder, you want me to talk about names, you want me to talk about judges, Šubice and so on. What did you do at that time? They'd come in with legislation and lock them up because they deserve it. No, you came up with a budget, which in 2010, by taking 2009 away with 1.8 billion debt, had 29.5 or 30% of GDP, if I'm counting 40 billion, I think it's smaller. One said 36 or how many, after these round numbers, doesn't matter. It is important that such a way and such a budget lead us to total ruin. Coalition MPs and coalition MPs, mayor and mayors, look at this budget and compare it with your own municipalities. You're gonna freak out, some of you are. Ministerial team, Prime Minister give us 10 days, no ministerial team, 15 mayors, and we will draw up a budget, from the coalition and the opposition, and you will see what this budget looks like. [[.....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Dear former mayor, so you didn't know any more, you'd keep your jobs, you'd keep your investments. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u27	Mr. Puksic [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u28	Then we'd have social peace. [[...]] But it's not about cheating, my dear former mayor, and that's not going to work. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Hello, hello, who started it. I have a word. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u29	Mr. Pukšič, you have the floor, but be cultural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u30	Vice President, I will. I didn't start at this level. She started a colleague who used to be the mayor or she jumped into my mouth. Look. 2008, the final account that you did not accept had investment expenditure, investment transfers for almost one billion, today for the 2010 budget has 1.6 billion. But from this, you only expect $1.15 billion of European funds in revenue. This means you have about 400, 500 million, which means less than 5% of the total budget for investments in expenditure of ten billion. This means EUR 500 million only for investments. If there was a normal budget, 1.1 would add at least one billion to these Europeans, and 2 would have half billion. And if we had debts of another 2 billion, we would have 4 billion investment assets, of course, if we had a surplus of 65 million in this budget, just like the 2008 final account, with which I am constantly comparing the 2010 budget. Yes, when we go to the bank, we get credit, then we have to go to the principal, if we don't know when and how you're going to pay it back or how we're going to pay it off, because we're going to be citizens and citizens, all of us. So that, of course, there will be no more payments for bread and milk. You already have more than half a billion in this budget, which means more money to pay interest than for investments. More. Of course, those that we have been making up for years and years of budgeting are seriously at risk of such a budget. What are the development policies of this budget key for 2010 and then 2011 for these governments? Where is development policy here? It is simply not, a development policy that leads us to a minus 50% of GDP debt. I don't know how this is going to work in the next 20 years, when, of course, this is over. But, colleagues and colleagues, I am sure that with such a government that will know, for the first time, to lower taxes, but not as you do every day with some laws, we have accepted additional taxation on Friday, where, with reduced taxes, it will also raise wages, where it will know how to reduce public spending definitely, regulate health care, what is private, let it be public, let it be public, but not that it fills the private pockets with doctors. You know that very well, but don't do anything about it. Those who will also be able to allocate funds for borrowing investments. It's okay if he goes into investment and then, of course, returns it. Even the construction of the highway cross, even if we went into debt, i.e. public debt to build railways, would then be returned through economic operators, it is not wrong because it would be repaid. That's the way it goes, but it's not here right now. The amendment we have drawn up is, I will say, something sweet, at least a little stop this train's woodwork in a complete abyss or woodwork against the concrete wall, where everything has to just fly off like Yugoslavia did. Indeed, there is no other way, but not to force us into this or to force these citizens and citizens to go in this direction without this amendment. Of course, I won't support the budget by any means.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Žnidaršič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! There is no doubt that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 is to some extent part of what we agreed in the coalition agreement when we enter into this government coalition. My warnings before the preparation of this budget that things are not running according to agreement have come to an empty table. The other logs were silent, there were no answers, there was no comment. However, since the coalition agreement is not being implemented on its own account, this government is engendering its own credibility and responsibility. For we have informed our voters after the adoption of the coalition agreement about what we have negotiated and expected to see part of that light in the 2010 budget, for example, an allowance for pensioners, the Office for Older Persons, the Ombudsman, more money for older people's homes, the transfer of management of Kad to the PPIZ and so on. Let's see what happened. The supplement, instead of 60 million, was realized in the range of 15 million, of course not only for pensioners, but also for all those who are struggling to live, which is right, but only for those whose income is below 320 euros, others received nothing, as if with 325 euros they could date irrespective of the crisis. There is no money for about two homes for the elderly in this budget. We have not set up an office that would not be a particularly high cost, there is not enough resources to help in the home, the strategy for the protection of the elderly is not supported by funding, there is nothing with the Ombudsman, even though we know how difficult it is for patients to get their basic rights to meet healthcare needs, the management of Kad runs right past the coalition agreement. Perhaps our expectations were too high because the crisis and all objective could not be realized, but it is not possible that in such a case we should discuss what is left of the agreements that have been heard by citizens and voters in order to answer the question of why we have not achieved individual things and agreements and what is what we are going to do, regardless of the crisis. There were no conversations like that. My proposal to do so sounded empty, and not only did he experience extreme ignorance in the sense that there was no word on it. I guess we didn't make fun of the coalition agreement like you just said. Look, the vote on the separation of the mayor and the MP, if I go to an agreement that wasn't our proposal, but we also have in our programme to do so. And we smiled in front of the Slovenian public and voters when we wrote in the coalition agreement that we would do everything to settle this and solve it the way we think it is right. We signed an agreement, we forgot about it, and we don't wonder if we're still the coalition that signed something, and whether we're still the coalition that really meant when it formed that government. If I return to the budget, it is indeed developmental, but with indisputable possibilities for budget cuts, not emergency items, a few tens of thousands, for example, for the Office of Older Persons or for the establishment of the Ombudsman's Institute of Patients' Rights should not be a problem. Of course, our party has agreed to a lower level of coordination of pensions, which has saved a few ten times more than it would have cost at least something we agreed on, and this year does not show that it will also be achieved. As far as European funds and high expectations are concerned after extraction, I must say that it is tragic that this expectation on illegal projects, on the one hand, on a market-based basis and on the other hand, that the municipalities' own participation is not covered and that it is an elephant at the indebtedness of the municipalities, which of course is not good. However, many have reported projects without knowing where they will be put, because we have no spatial plans and there are great delays. In view of the fact that the party has indeed proposed that, however, for an additional draft budget, it should look again at where investments could be reduced, the realisation of the agreement to do so would be absolutely modest. There was a savings of about 10 million, could have been at least three times, four times that. As far as I am concerned, it is extremely difficult to expect such an updated proposal to give its voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u34	Thank you very much. After quite a few months of preparation, we have seen the complementary draft budgets, the 2010 budgets, which are the subject of the current debate, and 2011 will be the next topic in a macro-economic situation that is not envying. In a macroeconomic situation where we can see a strong export drop in 2009, almost 20% lower exports and regardless, this coalition, which has always stressed and has never hidden that social unemployment has managed to maintain at an almost unaltered level. In 2009, regardless of almost 20% of exports, unemployment will increase by about 2%. Much less in 2010 and even less in 2011. Nevertheless, the export outage reminds us of the fact that the Slovenian economy needs development, it needs to be upgraded in the direction of the development of the industry, which will produce finished products. Because so far focus on partial products, it strongly binds us to exports and, of course, to demand from other countries. We know that in times of crisis, countries and industries cut imports first, i.e. when buying elsewhere. If we specify. The car industry from Germany and elsewhere, of course, first cut in the supply from Slovenia and then barely in the supply of home. Which means that we need to develop our economy so that as many products as possible will be intended for the direct market, so that we can put them directly on the market and, of course, be more independent when we have to deal with economic crises. The coalition and the government have also succeeded in doing so through good anti-crisis measures. Opinion of the European Commission, to quote: "The measures are appropriate to respond to the economic downturn according to the basis of the fiscal manoeuvre at a moderate deficit and debt level in the crisis. The view is that the measures are timely, targeted and partly temporary." So, a positive assessment that further upgrades the already-shown evaluation. In such a state and in the fact that Slovenia must face and deal with public finances that were not inherited in order to be healthy. After all, the country’s cyclically adjusted balance was year-on-year and always negative, so that we cannot expect an excellent situation when public finances are taken over. Other information, too, has been one that has raised quite a question of how and how the budget will be drawn up. For example, the state administration, the previous coalition, has promised to reduce employment in the state administration by 1% each year. What was the result? 6,000 more employees in the state administration. 6 thousand more, given that 1% is promised every year, so less than 4% in four years, however, is a deviation from what has been predicted. Despite the fact that the coalition and the government have first started by establishing a rigorous fiscal rule, from which we can hope that there will be no increase in consumption in the coming years. The crucial importance of this fiscal rule for the Government to put it on such a rigorous footing is that this budget is highly social, with an increase of €150 million in expenditure and resources for social security and health policy. It is cost-saving, you know how much it has already been saved in this budget on expenditure that is not necessary for the country and is, above all, developmental. Regardless of this economic situation, we record an increase in investment expenditure from €494 million in 2010 to €740 million in 2010, by almost 300 million more. Regardless of the situation already mentioned, we record an increase in investment transfers from 700 and several million to 933 million euros. And then there's the latest information on developmental orientation. Regardless of the situation we have, the funds for technological development projects are increasing from €23 million in 2008 to €96 million in 2009 and € 188 million in 2010. If we look at this as a percentage, we see how over the past three years development policy funds have been falling from 1.5 to almost 1%, they have been falling steadily. Well, over the last two years, regardless of the economic situation, it's increased considerably. In 2009, we reached almost 2% for development policies and in 2010 at 2% for development policies. If it's not a developmental twist, what is it?Oh, my God! On the other hand, we hear criticism of increased consumption or non-management of expenditure. Because it is precisely this opposition, which is now criticising this, that has proposed, months ago, an increase in state consumption through so-called intervention anti-crisis laws. This opposition has suggested that spending should be increased, and now it is clear that there was not enough spending cuts. The proposed law on the promotion of private consumption has also increased public consumption, as subsidies are state consumption. At the same time, we hear the proposal to lower tax rates. Now we need to clarify something. At the same time, it is not possible to lower tax rates, at the same time reduce any taxation and expect us to have a lower deficit. It's not possible. Also, the story that when taxes are reduced is essentially increasing tax revenues is a situation that rarely comes true and comes true when the tax burden is very high. I wonder how we could reduce the tax burden on the former government, and we all find that this has greatly reduced. And according to the percentage of the burden, it did not report a significantly higher income. So, we can expect that if we continue to reduce tax revenues, we will record lower tax revenues, so if we continue to lower tax taxes, we will record lower tax revenues. We can really expect that. The so-called Lafer curve in the case of Slovenia is obviously already at its lower part. And if we lower taxes, we'll just have less revenue. Of course, all is well and well, but then we must be aware that we will also be able to provide less public services, so that the country can take less care of security, health, education, development, pensions and so on. If that's the decision, let the opposition say it. Let him say that he wants a small country to want a state like that in the United States, where everyone has to pay his own health insurance, and if he hasn't paid it, they just kick him out of the hospital, so that everyone has to pay their own pension, and if he hasn't paid his pension, he doesn't. If that's what the opposition wants to say, if that's the way he wants us to draw it. But this is not the way of this coalition. The government has clearly decided to put the country in a position to promote development and maintain an appropriate level of social, health, pension security while promoting knowledge and education. We have also heard an obvious increase in income from fines. Of course, this is bad, but not because our criminal authorities would be too effective. We must aim to make them as effective as possible. It's bad enough to find out that in some area there's an increase in offences, but every offense has to be punishable by law. But we all have to pay for our misdemeanors, so I don't understand why we should object. After all, and by this I conclude, if the opposition and the SDS are so concerned about the deficit, I invite them to return the money that was to be recovered from corruption in the Patria affair, so argues the Finnish investigator, to give it back to the state. After all, this money from this corruption has gone from the Ministry of Defence to helping reduce the state deficit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Žerjav, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Today we will probably hear many more about how the budget is developmentally oriented - by the coalition, how it is not developmentally oriented - by the opposition. I will not discuss this on my own, because just the fact that we have a deficit like the one billion 800 a year, a billion 500 a year in 2011, is actually difficult to talk about the development of both budgets. I will focus mainly on austerity or non-securitism, as I have also presented my analysis to the Committee on Finance, I would like to postpone this analysis today and then take my own picture of how either budgets are cost-effective or not. I compared the 2010 budget myself with the 2009 budget, i.e. with the last budget drawn up by the old government, in which I also participated for a year. I have done an analysis among individual consumers, non-governmental and government budget consumers, as was done in the budget prepared by the previous government and as in the draft budget for 2010. And I've come up with some very interesting numbers that I'd like to present. If I touch non-governmental budgetary consumers, in fact only three of them have indices below 100. He is certainly in charge of this cabinet of the President of the Government, which has an index of 79 compared to the budget. So, once again, I stress, the 2010 and 2009 budget adopted by the old government. The President of the Republic has an index 93 and the National Assembly, if we give a little commendation here, has an index 87. These are the three budget users who are bright exceptions between all budget consumers. This should be emphasized in particular. If we touch the National Audit Commission and index 110, Information Officer Index 108, State Council Index 107, Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts Index 109, Constitutional Court Index 121, Ombudsman 118 and Commission for the Prevention of Corruption Index 234. So, up to 11 consumers, except for the first three, there's actually only one of them, and this is the Court of Auditors, which has an index of 95. If I touch some government budget consumers, the picture is very similar. The Protocol of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has an index of 72, which is commendable; the Office of the Government of Communications Index 106; the Office of Nationality 102; the Office of Equal Opportunities 147; the General Secretariat of the Government 107; the Office of the Government of Religious Communities 115; the Office for the Protection of Secret Data 143; the Customs Administration 108; the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering 112; the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Payments, one rare index below 98; the Tax Administration Index 111. I cannot imagine what these directors are doing, if they are the directors of these offices and so on, in short, the heads of these offices, who obviously do not realize that Slovenia is in a serious financial and economic crisis. And so should those who run these important offices and these important institutions. I'm going to touch the ministries, and it's only the ministries, and I'm going to let the government's services go. We have 15 ministries, of which the indices are about: Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs 137, Ministry of Environment and Space 122, Ministry of Finance 115 and so on. If I were to figure out the difference in the consumption of 15 ministries under the 2010 budget compared to the expenditure allocated to them through the 2009 budget by the old government, the difference is 300 billion. If we think about it and say family and social affairs, it has a lot to do with social affairs, in short, in dealing with the crisis, perhaps even finance, probably the economy, I am talking about ministries, agriculture, higher education. And if we subtract these ministries, we get a terrible difference of 300 million, given that the pay gap is 80 million, so do the numbers, we still get up to 237 million differences, that's what I think. On the basis of this analysis of non-governmental, government budget consumers and the functioning of ministries, of which, in fact, only two ministries have an index of less than 100, that is, defence and public administration, the Minister of Public Administration has always been the first and most obviously aware of the need to save, everyone else is not aware of this. Moreover, I think that the Prime Minister of the Government, who at the moment should act as director, as crisis managers and crisis managers, is in such a case facing problems in such times where the company is faced when the problem of paying is the problem of providing financial resources, credits and so on, then the directors are cutting costs by long and fast and then it is not possible to buy a computer because there is no money, because it must be earned first that this computer can be purchased or paid out sooner or later. But some budget users obviously do not realize the situation of the Slovenian economy and are acting more clearly on the basis of this analysis. It must be said, however, that that 2009 budget was prepared in a completely different time, in completely different circumstances, when economic growth, as we have said many times before, was too high when the economy overheated and so on and so on. That there is no saving or that obviously no one is systematically involved in the government, this article in Finance last month also shows. From January to September 1,800 more employees in public administration. I hope this information is accurate that they didn't invent it in Finance. In short, I would expect the Director of this company, in this case the President of the Government, to set up all his subordinates, i.e. ministers, clear frameworks, clear guidelines on how they should behave at such a time. That was more than obvious. If I also compare the material costs or costs of goods and services with the assessment of the implementation for this year, where 865 million is to be added, we will even have an increase of 3.5% in the 2010 budget. If a person expected us to look for reserves, to look for a shortcut, to relieve the burden, then to reduce public spending, it happens the other way around. I hope that, of course, in these thoughts and in these analyses, someone will deny that this analysis is wrong, that it is wrong, that it is based on wrong assumptions. But I'm afraid not. Also because of this amendment, which we have written this time by all three opposition parties, it provides for the reduction of the items mainly in order to make it clear that horses need to be stopped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. A respected choir! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the Public Finance Act, on 1 October the Government sent state budgets to the National Assembly for 2010 and 2011, together with all necessary documents. For comparison. In 1997 we only adopted the state budget in November of the same year, when it was practically spent. At an extraordinary meeting in October, the Budget Memorandum and Budgets for the next two years were presented by the President of the Government of Borut Pahor and the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz the Crusader. This presentation was followed by a hearing on the competent working bodies and the budget, if there is no surprise, will be adopted this week, even though we have heard today that two members of the budget coalition will not support it. These are the first state budgets to be fully drawn up by the new government. The basic budget for the current year 2009 was the fruit of the previous government and was adopted two years ago, and this year, the financial and economic crisis has led to quite two rebalancings. The first rebalancing was markedly counter-crisis-oriented and was quickly followed by another balance, including a series of austerity measures, due to the deterioration of the economic situation at home and abroad. The opposition, however, predicted a third rebalancing, which, of course, was a miscalculation. The rapid deterioration in the state of public finances in 2009 was not only a result of the economic activity hike, but also of the fiscal policy measures of the previous government in recent years. In 2006, the tax reform of the Janša government reduced the tax revenues of the state budget at annual level by a billion EUR 600 million, which was not followed by a reform of the expenditure side of the budget. She doubled Dars' debt and additionally owed him EUR 400 million, according to the 2004 situation. In addition, new and additional rights were adopted before the 2008 national elections, which have significantly burdened the state budgets for the next few years. The legacy inherited by the government of Borut Pahor was not encouraging. At the October extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, the President of the Government of Pahor pointed out that the latest macroeconomic forecasts of international institutions this year still foresee a decline in GDP in most of our trading partners, on which our highly export-oriented economy depends. The stability of the economic situation in some developed economies, however, suggests an exit from the recession, which, according to prevailing forecasts, will be gradual. It is also encouraging to record 0.7% of economic growth in Slovenia in the second quarter. The Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development this year predicts a 7.3% drop in gross domestic product, mainly due to a strong decline in exports by almost 18% and investment in fixed assets by 21%. Nevertheless, it is estimated that in the coming year our economy will record slightly positive growth. Export growth is also expected to increase and economic growth is expected to increase slightly in 2011. Unfortunately, the situation in the labour market is still deteriorating, although the government and the National Assembly would still be more unemployed by 20,000 this year. The government's goal is to stop negative trends, which is also true for a government deficit that will not exceed 5.6% in the coming year. In 2011 it will be even lower by a good percentage. In general, we can say, as for the last rebalancing 2009 that the budgets for 2010 and 2011 are simultaneously developmental, counter-crisis and also austerity-oriented. The characteristics of both budgets are also the programme orientation and introduction of the so-called fiscal rule, which sets the ceiling for 2009 budget expenditure for the entire period until 2013. Initially, I would like to highlight two very development policies: the policy of promoting entrepreneurship and competitiveness and the policy of higher education, science, technology and information society. For the latter only, compared to 2009, the funds increase by €63 million and by a total of €228 compared to 2008. The funds to promote entrepreneurship and competitiveness will increase by €13 million in 2009, but this is more than €110 million in 2008 during the Janša government. A total of 400 million will be earmarked for the entire area next year. In 2010 more than €1 billion will be earmarked for the purpose of developmental conversion, which is almost €330 million more than it was in 2008 during the previous Janša government. Transport and transport infrastructure policy is allocated €820 million or around 8% of the total budget in the 2010 budget. Thus, the funding for this important segment increases by up to EUR 243 million this year. Of course, the implementation of these projects will also require a change of legislation in order to accelerate the placement of infrastructure projects into space. Let me just mention the problems they have on the third and fourth developmental axis. For example, determining the route of the fourth development axis at the Cerkno - Gorenja section of the village, which has been towed since 2006, or the problems we have with the bishop's carriageway. I only hope that investments or placements of routes for the railways of Lower Idrija, Godovic, Hotedršica and Kalce will take place significantly faster than on other routes. The largest part of the budget will go to social security and health policy, namely EUR 2.5 billion, which means 7.1% of gross social product or 25% of the total budget. Compared to 2009, funds for this purpose are increasing by 150 million euros. Compared to 2009, for the development programme, healthcare and health care for patients in 2010 increased by 63%, mainly at the expense of investment projects in the field of health care. In the labour market, funds for active and passive employment policies increased already in 2009. This year, 20,000 jobs were thus preserved. Thus, the 2010 draft budget provides €528 million, or 1.5% of GDP, for this area. However, these resources will decrease in 2011 as the economy is expected to recover. In comparison, only €186 million was realised in 2008 for this purpose. With regard to civil servants' salaries, an agreement was reached with the social partners in October to reduce the projected 10.3% growth in 2010 by 3.1%, which amounts to €354 million. Virant's salary reform, which was agreed and partly already implemented in early 2009 for around 250 million euros, cannot be fully implemented in such economic times and conditions, as the public financial situation today does not allow it. However, several structural reforms will also need to be implemented in parallel in the coming years, which will be considered by the National Assembly in the coming period. I will support the 2010 and 2011 budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss the general part of the 2010 supplementary draft budget? I'm opening the application. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you. I've only got 49 seconds. I'll be very short. It has been repeatedly said that we have on the table a draft budget based on real circumstances. There can be no ideal budgets in these times, everyone is aware of this, both the coalition and the opposition, but just as the real budget will probably allow this government to finally show reliable closing accounts, not the ones we have seen in the last two years and for which we can always negotiate whether the Court of Auditors is right or wrong. After all, such a budget is the only possible. Of course, there will be a lot of debate on the specific items of this budget, but the fact is that we will be witnessing again, in particular, the various attempts of calculating with this government that is taking place, and this opposition knows well, it is taking place in very difficult circumstances, and yet it is trying to keep in the structure of this budget all those items that we understand as social and developmental in the coalition. In these days, just as there will be a lot of talk about the budget, we will also be witnessing a variety of discoveries that will prove once again that in those days when it was possible to have a more thorough public debate and also to offer better conditions and a better basis for survival in such difficult times, this debate has not been and has not been so. Therefore, we need to discuss the Government's efforts realistically, realizing that there will be no ideal results here, that some categories of forces will also be dissatisfied. After all, the government and ministers negotiated with those social sectors that somehow understood, particularly the public sector, that we are all in a war. That is why we must take this into account and act accordingly. So another attempt to lead the country to better circumstances with a real budget. We will take care of it, and the Government will ensure that the serious consequences of the social crisis are minimised. The fact is that the budget we will discuss at the next point is similar. So, as has been said, the Group of Ambassadors, as well as the individual Members of Parliament, really, we support this budget with a somewhat critical distance. This critical distance, however, stems from the fact that we have not been able to implement all the restrictions that we could, because, as has been repeatedly exposed, even in the debate that has led, unfortunately, to the clairvoyant result of the incompatibility of functions, we are also faced with partial and local interests at each budget that draw me there. So, realistically forward. We will try to be as creative and realistic as possible to discuss individual items, and we invite the opposition to operate in a sober and proper manner and to make less use of difficult economic and financial circumstances to account purely for political and ideological positions. In the coming days, we will probably also be familiar with the odd jobs created in the previous term. We are reading today that the ruling party of the previous mandate is to receive and if this is proved, it is to receive a lot of money, which is a heavy burden on the legitimacy of any critical treatment of the correct efforts of this government to bring a revised budget under the roof.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please. Can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u42	I have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u43	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u44	Mr President-in-Office. I understand the full scope of the debate also in this item of the agenda, but what Mr Yuri says, one and the other, the younger and older from SD and Zares, has absolutely nothing to do with the 2010 budget and the 2011 budget. This debate, if they thought so, could be opened in the 2008 closing account when we had it on the agenda. But we can also open up a debate about their brother, the camp on Ježica and similar stories. This includes some of the stories that took place in the National Assembly. It may be reasonable, Mr President, to limit the debate to a topic, to an area, even a little wider, but it must be in some context. Insinuations, insinuations, and these things, I think it's absolutely irrelevant to say anything, especially because they're not exactly exemplary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The theme of this first part is very broad. It is difficult to define, but I would like to ask if we are really sticking to the general part of the supplementary draft budget in the course of this debate. Please, Dr. Luke Yuri, would you? Procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u46	I suggest that we respect women and men in this debate. I have a sister, not a brother, so I suggest we talk about a sister and not a brother. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u47	Mr. Sylven Tiny, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear Minister! We are faced with tight economic conditions where liquidity, payment discipline, investment, employment and capital growth are a real problem. When coming out of the crisis, it is certainly important to take into account that more than 20% of the 300 largest companies in Slovenia are in foreign ownership. It is also necessary to take into account the different attitude of our companies from foreign to all-Slovenian problems, where the Slovenian economy plays a decisive role, in the area of the exit strategy and in all the accompanying areas that currently plague us in these times of recession. Therefore, the focus should be on the resolution of the crisis of the Slovenian economy, which will also be the wedding for a way out of the crisis. The government emphasises that the draft budget differs from the initial intervention proposal of the law, which is supported by an agreement with the social partners. The funds for wages are increasing, and the resources for performance are decreasing, which is at odds with logic itself, as this stimulates work and laziness. But those who have done well so far and created surpluses will be punished for it. Funds for social transfers are also increasing and pensions will gradually decrease. It doesn't make any sense. And there will be more poor people among the pensioners. As a result of the increase in wage expenditure, the Government is reducing expenditure, which mainly relates to investment projects. This is a very bad move. The financial crisis has hurt us very deeply, but we have learned nothing from the weakness it has revealed to us. We have a low added value to the employee and the economy and the whole company are elephants on export and the market is always more private and competitive. Given the increasingly difficult situation and growing competition, the emphasis is on social transfers. In addition, we have and support the inefficiency of public administration, which is absolutely too expensive. And that's what's for textbooks, "How not to do it." There are too many non-productive investments that hinder economic growth. You also point to the lack of seriousness of the director of the Directorates, who is unaware of the seriousness of the crisis situation. The excessive expenditure orientation of the supplementary budget proposal, the increase in non-productive spending, the lack of reserves, the additional indebtedness of the country and the increase in deficits far above the level allowed must sober us up before this budget is adopted. Populism moves with social transfers do not bring a solution. They provide only social peace, but do not reflect added value on the funds invested. The guarantee scheme and the guarantee shall not work. Banks are becoming more and more cautious and more expensive as risks increase. There is too little support for development and investment. The bureaucratic and legal obstacles to the preparation of the investments in the plan should be removed, and we are also witnessing the slow decoupling of old customs and the incomprehensibility to change. Structural funds calls are rigid and non-lifelike. In construction, financial warming is expected, as they are largely in a standstill situation, paying taxes and contributions, while others are not paid for their work. We have great problems with the rule of law and the efficiency of the prosecution and the judiciary. There's too much interest in running out of state cash registers. Actions by judges, prosecutors and lawyers, deleted, various court disputes that have lasted too long or have fallen to the courts, not to mention the bankruptcy administrators and the various presidents of the administrations who are paid fantastic prizes, of course, all by law. As we can see, there is a lot of this, but I have only mentioned a fraction of those on the budget exhaustion list. Finally, we can ask ourselves, ‘ What is left for the little ones? Nothing! And we'll be in debt again for the next 50 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u49	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished minister and secretary of state! What kind of act we have ahead of us, it is clear that some coalition Members have listed very precisely in which parts of this budget are not in line with the coalition agreement or coalition agreement. The foundation of the provisions contained in the coalition agreement, which led to the conduct of the coalition in one term, in one period, in one medium term, is not respected. Days ago, you broke a law that would regulate the incompatibilities of functional functions, and now we have here debates that in this budget, in the plans for two years ahead, there are not some important fundamental issues under the coalition agreement in the plans for development programmes. Kolga Žnidaršič said that some groups, especially older ones, will be completely affected and will be affected, because they are not adequately covered by the home care budget, are not adequately covered by the protection of the elderly or by the construction of homes for the elderly, are not covered by monetary compensation or have not been implemented as set out in the coalition agreement, or should this be the first month of this year. In January 2009, this part, this transfer part, should be arranged. You have arranged it after many pressures, even after we put this law into the SDS twice, only to a quarter of what you wrote in the coalition agreement. So much so that we know what content we can talk about here. Warnings, coalition members are in place and are reasoned and standing. The fact is that these coalition Members are much more critical, much sharper, much more radical to the budget you have submitted than the opposition Members. I don't think this is a good way to deal with this act. The second thing is that the government has said that this budget has been made differently than the budgets have been so far. That it was made on the basis of sixteen priorities, sixteen areas and not more by ministries. When we look at the actual budget, it's done exactly as it was before. We still have the ministry and the cost posts or programmes within the ministries. We still have administrative units, each individually as consumers. We still have each court individually, and we still have a thousand things done exactly the same as they were in the 2008 budget or in your rebalancing this year with which we corrected these matters. Finally, the Legislative and Legal Service, which has prepared an explanation of how amendments to this new budget concept are being tabled, wrote: "The budget proposals are still prepared in the manner laid down in the applicable legislation, i.e. according to the structure of the programme classification." Nothing else! For three months we listened to the President of the Government, the Minister of Finance and many in all the media, and also in the National Assembly, as to how a new concept and a new turnaround had taken place in the preparation of this budget. It is not completely identical, if you do not believe, read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service from 6 October 2009 - 6 October, here below, on the other hand it writes. So much for these matters and how we work differently, better, more conceptually, more programmely than we did in the past mandate. Nothing else has happened in this mandate, and it is obvious what the highest representatives of the executive branch are saying, headed by the Prime Minister of the Government, just a fairy tale and has no real basis in the act you submitted. Secondly, it is important to say in these budgets that both acts are submitted on the basis of uncoordinated issues, uncoordinated data. The government has submitted budgets for 2010 and 2011 as well as the Law on the implementation of the budget for those years, as well as that intervention law - inconsistent with the social partners. Here we are, on October 19th, I think that this matter was an opportunity to listen to the President of the Government and the Finance Minister who talked about how this budget is prepared. The intervention law was introduced or put into the procedure in the National Assembly and made available to Members two days later, such as the other acts, and that financial law covered EUR 500 million. The fact that the matter is not harmonised also shows that you replaced the intervention law in the procedure after October 19th, when the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance had a presentation of the budgetary memorandum here. You changed the intervention law, you took it out of the procedure, and you replaced it with a new one without the National Assembly even considering it. It will be difficult for someone to convince me that this is a new concept, that this is a new paradigm, and that this is what is happening in the National Assembly, and I am a 9th-year-old Member, and I am also considering the budget for 9 years, that the government has not yet submitted a fundamental act that is not aligned with the social partners. And then there was a so-called coordination process, where more or less of the social partners, unions and even pensioners forced themselves to agree to some radical changes, just because this financial budget remained at a billion 800 deficits. That's amazing. A billion 800 - per 5%, and that's why so many of these interpretations were made, and I don't know what else. In short, things are going very differently than they would normally be for any such act that is necessary for this country. So-called modernisations are taking place. By actually harmonising and forcing changes in this budget process after 19 October, you have made modernisation - modernisation of the pay system, because the unions have agreed on many concessions that have been negotiated before and you have denied pensioners many rights. Coordination is actually half as low as it should be, and this is an argument that I can argue that this act is not of the same quality and does not have the same quality in Slovenian society as the Government, as the Prime Minister wishes to present it. The next thing you have to say here is that Slovenia has fallen worse in this international comparable environment than it could otherwise have. Colleagues have already said, and you know well enough that Slovenia was one of those members of the European Union that had strong above average economic growth. We are now just one year from now among those members who are severely lagging behind the economic growth of other European countries and behind the average of the European Union. We are here to stand and boast that we are better than other Central European members of the European Union who have come from behind the Iron Curtain to the European Union, such as, say, the Czech Republic, Poland, also Slovakia. All these countries had lower economic growth in 2008. Now these two members have a significantly smaller fall than Slovenia. They're down by 2.3%, Slovenia by 12 to 14%. We crashed down to minus 2, but despite the fact that the Czech Republic had relatively major problems and probably still has them with the stability of the government. For the elective body and their home, which decides it, is so composed. Although the situation has not been stable, there has been a significantly smaller decline in economic growth than Slovenia. The only difference is that their governments have clearly adopted appropriate economic rules, appropriate acts to enable economic growth, to enable investment to enable economic development, and there have been no appropriate measures for us. We have been waiting and waiting for what Angela Merkel will decide in Germany. We are boasting about this and we expect this to be the biggest action. We have not done what we should have done alone during this period. As far as the balance sheet is concerned, it can be found on the grave that we have this revenue side about the same as it was in 2008. It is not significantly smaller than in 2008, although you have blocked European funds, it is said that this pumping has been considerably limited, because there are no calls, even though many avoid paying taxes, even some government officials, because companies have registered abroad, in zones where taxes are significantly lower, and can also conceal matters. As a result, the commission of inquiry will also be designated to investigate certain cases. That's interesting! There is no coalition partner here, no member of the coalition any problem, that anything is wrong, that it conceals itself, that anything is wrong, that it hides itself, that there are several companies, even maybe a few more than ten sorted by such oasis, and co-owner of this is an important government official who does not pay taxes, even though he gets here, our salary. On the other hand, we are faced with the problem of spending growing enormously across borders, and there is no fiscal rule in this area. If the fiscal rule were to be, probably these expenditure would increase significantly slower, more balanced, the budget would be smaller and the budget structure would probably be substantially different than it is now. However, since this fiscal rule is only for the public, as was the story of the different concept of the budget, this story does not hold and went budget deficit across all borders. If we could possibly be in charge of new investments, of new programmes, of things that result in new jobs, then we would somehow understand that. However, budget spending, the expenditure side, is used for many other things that do not have economic growth, by investing in new jobs and investments, and by no means entailing any expected effects, but only new and additional costs. The figures on this new employment from the previous Tuesday in Finance only attach to this. Despite the limitations enshrined in the coalition contract, matters in the field of public administration employment are taking place as Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs said at that famous government meeting. The growth of 1,800 is done exactly by dynamics, by formula, by concept, by the way that it was reported to the public in some informal way; this is what we had the opportunity to hear. Other policies are likely to take place in a very similar way. On the one hand, we don't get money for investments, on the other hand, we limit pensioners to their rights, on the third hand, there is no problem that we increase the salaries of judges by 1.5 average pensions, and on the other hand, we don't know how much extra burden we are taking on in the wrong way to regulate the area of so-called deleted. The consequences will still be very, very severe. What have we faced at this time, which is the basis for this budget? We had two budget balances, we had three packages of measures. None of these things were "took": not the acts we adopted in the National Assembly, not the rebalans, not the packages. It is difficult to get an analysis today, or I don't know whether it is done how these packages of measures have actually been "received" and where they have been "received" if, on the other hand, we find - and also speak publicly, the President of the Government and the Finance Minister say so - that the most "restricted" is where it should be the most relaxed, and this is in the area of financing, lending the economy. There is still a financial upheaval, although Minister Križanič was already in Odessa for a month, and also at the press conference, he said that he felt that the credit crunch was already failing. Since May, when did he feel this, nothing has changed completely. So, if we are somehow trying to figure out where something can actually be arranged and what to save, it would certainly be in the field of public procurement. However, this area is also one where the rules do not apply equally to all. Already at this meeting of the National Assembly, we have faced a revision of the Toll Code, where we have adopted some law approval that will run through a reduced procedure, and this law will allow for the upgrading of the toll system without a public contract. Instead of replacing this system, which is obsolete, which works on a non-European frequency, with a new one and gets it after a public invitation to tender, the Government is proposing a law that this will be implemented through an upgrade. And because it's a system that is unique only in such a way that financial building is also going to happen, the upgrade of the toll system. I don't think such an approach is good, it's not right and it's illegal. Unfortunately, we have seen these Flossules more and more recently, how the Government proposes something to do and in practice proposes a completely diametric opposite solution. And it's similar to a lot of other investments. In short, there is no need for us to talk here about matters that should be settled because these are the legal bases if, on the other hand, the Government has every so long passed a law in which, in a special way, it regulates in a privileged way - in this latter case, the area of telecommunications or the area of tolling. That's interesting. We'll probably have a chance to hear about this more than once. Unfortunately, we hear too many times about how the esteemed President of the Government is calling on someone to think about some things, as it remains only in thinking. I want to know what Mr. Kramar has thought about his million. Did the President of the government get any answers, or are they both just thinking? We've been trying to redecorate this budget act a little bit. We have proposed an amendment to bring the budget deficit to 3%, but this is obviously not going to happen because the government does not support such a solution. I think it would be appropriate for us to take an important and appropriate step in this area in order to align the financial expenditure of the budget with the revenues at some permissive level and then to try to find solutions within the permissive framework that are important for economic growth. These are probably to be found, certainly among them, because there is a lot of manoeuvre in the area of infrastructure, there is still a lot in the area of investment, but obviously not much will happen here, because some public consumers need money to spend it. It is interesting that for all these explanations, including this maximum amendment, it is written in each sub-item for each item that proposes to take, "no such reduction is possible, no reduction in resources under sub-programmes is acceptable." In short, we have received a model approach from the Government, where it only notes why something cannot be taken away and given to a productive investment on some assumption, but it does not say anywhere in fact why it would be necessary to, say, change the purpose of spending from cost to investment. There are no adequate justifications for investments, but it deals only with why a cost cannot be reduced in the context of material consumption of material costs. I think that such an approach is actually very bad, unconceptual and from the Government, which thinks a lot, and also from the President of the Government, who thinks a lot, but not only about coffee, but also about other things, he would expect a more productive approach and also an act that would be significantly better; not only for Members who sit in opposition benches, but also for Members who are in coalition and who identify all these shortcomings, as some of them have already mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. This performance of my predecessor lasted 25 minutes. It seemed to me that it had been four or five days and I admit that, given that I am still young, that I can do something else in my life, I really wonder if I should sit in this Parliament. Among other things, he spoke about the innovation of finance. According to today’s articles in the Slovenian newspaper, I really feel that SDS is managing innovative finances. I am pleased that this coalition wants, above all, sustainable finance and legitimate financial management. Much has been said in this House, and indeed Mr Tanko, who called for this earlier, let's talk about the budget and some other debate from the opposition has previously spoken long and wide about the brilliance of heritage. Well, I think there is no secret that the economic and financial crisis in this country has revealed all the structural weaknesses of our national economy, in fact the question of how poorly concrete are the foundations of the national economy. We have low productivity of the economy, which is technologically unrequited, insufficiently innovative and all of this has led to a significant decline in economic activity. So far, we can figure out that our grades are uniform. In doing so, the opposition is very pleased to forget that they have been faced in the history of the unrepeatable golden times of the international economic conjuncture during their reign and that this government is facing, hopefully, also the unrepeatable source and depth of this economic and financial crisis. This decline in economic activity is now known in the social security system, where we have in all of the commodity social transfers - social and health insurance, pension insurance - great problems, we see that the labour market is not working well, that Slovenian education gives him a very weak human potential to create one competitive breakthrough. However, the previous period was certainly marked by the fact that man and his creative powers and dignity were completely devalued and that the privatisation model led to a concentration of property in the hands of the narrow elite circle with a low degree of industrial democracy and labour stocking. A large and complex state apparatus, through which all these accumulated problems in our community today should be solved, and with its non-life rules it represents one serious obstacle on the way to economic recovery. This requires this government to seriously analyse the reasons why in Slovenian economic reality what happened to us in the last quarter of 2008 and throughout this year, and to radically break down the wrong development patterns and release this country in order to release the creative potentials of our people and finally lead Slovenia into the path of developmental transformation. For me, therefore, the key to addressing this budget is: does the budget support ambition after difficult economic restructuring towards greater competitiveness of the economy, better and completed products and services with higher added value and strong trade marks, which will also provide people who create these products and services with greater prosperity and greater security? Another time. Does the budget contain sufficient resources for counter-crisis action in particular to mitigate the social consequences of the crisis and to trigger economic activity? And the third time. Does it contain an adequate financial basis for strategically important policies, such as the improvement of the school system and the transformation of Slovenia into a knowledge society and environmental restructuring towards a low-carbon society in order to effectively address the challenges facing us with threatening climate change? I'm sure I have the same idea as many colleagues in the coalition, what a comment, where to put less money and where to strengthen their priorities. I am glad that for Maribor we have managed to strengthen some things and put some programmes into this budget. Surely and believe that I feel the same way about each of us, and I would like more emphasis on some of the individuality in this budget. Nevertheless, I think that if we remove these local acquisitions, we must find here today that this budget, given the very narrow room of opportunity, gives some optimal cut on the way to our strategic aspirations. Let me illustrate it with numbers. We give almost €230 million more for development change than in 2008; in 2008, which is the last year of the former or former governments' rule, when they gave EUR 770 million for this policy, this budget provides a billion euros for different forms of developmental change. €110 million in 2008 is more resources to promote entrepreneurship and competitiveness. A total of 400 million. Plus €253 million, a total of €830 million, which means more than a quarter of the highlighted priority in transport development, with this investing as a priority in the development of sustainable forms of mobility. Social security - plus €150 million, active employment policy measures - plus €63 million for a total of €528 million. In the opening presentation of the views of the SDS Group, it was said that the budget deficit for 2010 is greater than investments. That's true, but only if we view investment as an investment in a road or a wall. The investment that has been strategically lacking in this country in the entire history of 20 years is investing in people and this investment, and when we add up one and the other investments as key investments in people, we see that this amount is substantially, substantially exceeded. This is the key investment that this country needs if it wants to increase its competitive capacity and better face global market conditions. As far as the target budget orientation is concerned. I am very glad that the government has decided on this vital step. However, I agree with those who believe that this targeted budget orientation in this first budget may not yet be as bright as anyone would like to be. I therefore recommend to the Government that it strengthen the mechanisms for monitoring the achievement of the objectives and, in particular, strengthen the methodology for achieving the right objectives in the design of future budgetary policies. We have never claimed that we are the best, that we are without mistakes, that we have never said that we could not do better, nor have we claimed that only our government is the key to national salvation. This is exactly the attitude we can see in this Parliament every day on the side of the opposition SDS. Such objectivity would be very dangerous for our government. And since we want to solve the accumulated problems of this country, we must first identify them and then critically assess our work to see what we can do even better, what we can do for the better, where our actions aim at an empty place where we need to give more emphasis in order to increase the effectiveness of our policies. We are doing this consciously, and this is the key that in three years' time we will place accounts on the voters and voters for their trust when they have entrusted us to this country to manage it responsible for change. And these changes are coming. And a large part of these changes are also seen in the 2010 and 2011 budgets, which are the core of this mandate. The opposition's attitude is quite different: everything was good before, it's worse than bad today. And if they were so naive to inherit this non-stately SDS hold, then it would be quite clear that only Janez Janša can guarantee our country fiscal stability, even if he employs it with accounting tricks and blackmail; that only Janez Janša can guarantee our country economic growth, even though it is based on low-value industries and a chronic absence of developmental restructuring, only Janez Janša guarantees the rule of law, unless otherwise by conducting the prosecution's work and evaluating the entire judicial system. Only Janez Janša guarantees the democratic development of society, if not through the occupation of public RTV and political interference with the largest media in the country, and only Janez Janša guarantees a real solution to the border issue, even though it concludes a disputed agreement in The Hague that threatens vital national interests. And finally, only Janez Janša guarantees the security of our country, even though this security of our people and our soldiers is subordinated to the financing of our party for victory in the elections. Thank God that the Slovenian public is not so naive and it is right that people are critical to this government, and in this we draw the urgent encouragement and commitment to doing better than we have done so far. And I recommend the opposition, don't underestimate our people, because that's how cheap people don't let themselves get flushed. Mr Vizjak gave a nice illustration last time in his reply to my discussion at the closing account about how I, as a 'young developmental snorkel', as he called me, inherited a good farm and now I am vouching because there is not enough to waste and drink in small. The "young developer" found that for a beautiful facade of a farm, decorated with credits and agricultural subsidies, only pig corn grows and I get less for the requested pig than for guidek. There is no new tractor on this farm [[read: new technologies]] and not knowing that the farm from an ageing livestock sample would redirect the farm to organic food production with a higher added value and a lower environmental tax. What shines forth as a good inheritance turns out so quickly to be a curse with which even such a good new master cannot do anything clever. And it's the same with the country. Light economic growth was based on low-value and high-inflation industries, and instead of development restructuring, barantalo and tycunized ownership, apparently in the office of the former prime minister, and high employment due to international conjuncture forced more than half of the people to work for poor wages that barely provide life above the poverty threshold. The school system was just one of the hostages of the right-wing political battles for their plans to privatise education, not for the community's ability to increase its knowledge of the breakthrough. The difference between times of crisis and conjuncture is therefore obvious. I am convinced that what is really good in these two budgets is this strategic direction towards a different policy, to a new policy. Among other things, this coalition clearly reflects a different political culture. I don't think you're going to find one case where so many public funds are being channelled into cashiers as we can see because of the predatory logic and the logic of the winners over the public interest and the interests of the state, as clearly seen in the previous mandate. With all right, you can deny me objectivity in this political and budgetary analysis, but I am confident that the Government will also, and especially because of these two budgets, which constitute the core of its policy in this mandate, by winning or defeating elections, up or down, leave Slovenia behind. And if we had good intentions, if we really wanted this country well together, then we should go in Slovenian politics, not for power at all costs and regardless of the victims.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening a report on general work, of course. Mr. Guido Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Besides, I'm used to doing things a little differently in my life than we're talking about here today. If we are already talking about the budget, let's talk about the budget and then translate the numbers and items here and there and try to reach a conclusion. However, I will also be involved in this debate in the same way. I have to say, as much as has been said in the debates so far, it is necessary to take care of the country's social stability. We need to take care of people who have lost their jobs. I certainly don't want our country to be aligned or comparable with America, and I don't want any Americanisation or Chineseization. However, we could talk about the fact that those positive trends that some countries have set up, and this is a significant reduction in economic growth, should be defaulted, but it is not important which countries come from, of course, not on social account. This is a huge increase in personal income or public expenditure. Still, I wonder if there are any reserves. We could talk about reserves. Look, we're one of the few countries or one of the countries that has a lot of hospital leaveovers. These hospital leavers arrive at 8.6 days for the employee, only Croatia has more. And we have no control over this. It is estimated that between €750 million and €800 million are lost annually in Slovenia and between €235 million and €250 million in the burden of employers alone. If the number of days lost due to hospital stocks were reduced to 10%, the health sector would save EUR 50 million and it would probably be easier to help the Ministry of Health to cope with this crisis. Of course it's the other way around. But if the hospitals go up, there's gonna be a bigger loss. Thus, solutions should also be sought beyond the fact that only solutions are sought in the budget itself and then an appropriate minus of the state budget. At that time, we also talked a lot about increasing the wages of some in this country. At the time, I was in the position that if the budget is as full and as many percentages as it is, it should also be paid in the public sector and in the companies whose own country is, of course, reduced to the social minimum of survival, which we will consider to be, but the rest is all the same. At 3,000 euros a month, even if it's 10% less, that's why we're going to live and work. There was also talk of healthy food, about eco-food and how to invest in farms. You know, until the purchasing power in this Slovenia is better and bigger, people will also not buy healthy food and eco-food, and we have to pour clean wine here. Until we improve the standards of our citizens and citizens, even in this case we have no opportunity and no opportunity to find a movement. The debate today also held debates on pre-election events and on this terrible patriarchy. But we all forget that once in this country there was also one very irrational purchase, Falcon. This Falcon still burdens the country in a variety of ways and we have a problem all the time. Nobody spoke about this in today’s debate. In short, if we want to get in the way of each other, we can get in each other's way, but I don't think that's the right way. After we also talk about such a large hole in the disability pension system, whether anyone today has asked themselves what Glass new, unpaid contributions for workers. These workers will pull "they're short" and the country will pull it. I don't know if that's a good thing. And let me be a little bit more, not the most constructive. Look, Viator&Vector, which belongs to Systemic Technology, I wouldn't be talking about a person who also manages a lot of contributions that haven't been paid. There's a lot of reserves in here, this money needs to be recovered, and I'm sure this budget hole can be significantly smaller as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u55	Mrs. Andrey Richter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Good thing, buddy, the phone rang so many times he wasn't disturbed. But when I listen to this debate today on the budget for the coming period and when I hear about all-powerful laws, which have not, after all, not even experienced the right process, when I listen to the average, I am and then also the indications of how some are discussing and how others are debating, of course, I wonder what the Slovenians or those who are also concerned with this budget will have. I also listen to the story of what the coalition has written in its agreement, how it does so and so on. And I may recall that this government has been jointly formed by the Social Democracy, with President Pahor at the helm, and that we have not failed our main mission, which is, of course, based on social communication between the social partners and which brings down the reduced, precisely because of social communication, in this budget or budget for 2010, a total of EUR 400 million. Of course, in response to one of the debaters before us, there was no or no social partnership. Far from it. Let me also recall that every year we discussed the budget and that this budget, unlike others, is made up of content - precisely those that bring stability to all generations - and is devoted especially to generations of older and young people. Of course, this is not about astronomical increases in pensions, but it is about more stable social security and that pensions do not increase as they would have been desirable because of the situation in which we went, and that the funds are not reduced in this budget by public services and not by municipalities. It is also interesting that the budget is very clear and explained about the sixteen content which is also devoted to it, and that in this debate, when I listen specifically to the opposition colleagues, they do not hear well. They don't hear very well about it. Just before me, my colleague discussed health in general, and we know even on the Health Committee that we have all been united, both in position and in opposition, that such a huge increase in health resources is truly a reflection of the coalition's agreement for the future. There is also a significant increase in investment in health and, of course, all legislation which follows this, due to large decisions, incorrect decisions and, in particular, irregularities that have taken place in this area. In fact, health and social security are one of the most important priorities in the budget, clearly and clearly enshrined in our coalition agreement and we also stick to it. We have made this commitment not least to our constituents in the last elections, and we will also do so. Thus, the resources for this development policy in the 2010 draft budget amounting to €2 million, €594 million, represent as much as 4.278 per cent of the budget expenditure. And the first task in this development policy and in this development budget is to preserve social security and health care at the level achieved so far. But we have added in this that all of this is at the expense of greater transparency, efficiency and fairness in obtaining social benefits. Let me also recall, of course, that today's debate, tomorrow's debate and, in particular, when we decide and vote on the budget, this responsibility, which is written down and what some of you are saying, respected colleagues and colleagues, is that the budget makes it very clear that funds are provided to maintain and create new jobs, to increase accessibility especially for young people and to upgrade knowledge and competences that meet the needs of the market and, of course, to promote mobility. All of this is very clear, very transparent and visible from the proposed budget and from a very broad debut, which the Government and individual ministries have also clarified and argued in the course of the debate. Therefore, keeping our eyes open is an impossibility for a very poor budget at a stage in which we can say that we are not truthful or that we are also misleading the public. In the end, let me just mention one more of the content that has somehow disturbed me. We are always talking about employment and the resources we are earmarking for public sector employees. I myself recall that at the end of 2003 we decided to reduce employment, especially in the state administration, by 1% and that such a decision was also in force in the previous period of the previous government, but the figures show otherwise. I will not mention here because they are also included in the budget or probably know them well, but see for yourself how these decisions on the reduction of the number of employees have been last implemented, these figures and, above all, the funds spent on new jobs and new employees in the previous period. Today, we read in this budget that 224 fewer jobs have been made in one year, and I am sure that this number will be reduced in the public sector as well as in the agreement, which is also written. Let me mention at the end that the general debate on this budget is a very serious debate for me because it is a budget for a two-year period, which means a period of exit from the economic and financial crisis. For this reason, the decision-making of the budget, which is substantive, and which ultimately allocates resources to the budget for the content and vitality of economic growth, the promotion of new economic programmes and also new jobs, the very large transfer of investments from the state budget, is good. Of course, if anyone thinks otherwise - and I have to say that the position here is completely uniform - but I can only regret that you are not or are not in the past, when economic growth has been much higher and, above all, when the possibilities have also been directed in the past period to draw on European funds so that we can draw on ourselves and prepare projects to draw on funds over the past two years, this has not happened. Let me say that, because of this, the budget is very close to me, very substantively, and that the content that is written is mainly accompanied by all the figures that are included in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u57	Mr. Bogdan Chapich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Unfortunately, I will probably repeat some of the information that has already been said in the various debates today. My aim is not just to repeat ourselves, but to accept the fact that the 2010 and 2011 budget needs to be repeated repeatedly that in extremely difficult times, we could also say crisis times. According to data on planned gross domestic product growth in 2010, only 0.9% and only in 2011, slightly more optimistic, 2 and half%, while in 2009 we have a negative GDP growth of 7.3%, up to GDP in 2008, amounting to 37.14 billion euros, which is a long way, is 35.9 billion in 2009 and 36.4 billion in 2010. When the registered unemployment rate in 2008 was 6.7%, and in 2009 it is probably 9.1%, that it is planned in 2010 even 10.6% and in 2011 almost 11%, this is an additional pressure on the budget, as we are witnessing an increase in the number of unemployed who need or will be compensated under our legislation for the period of unemployment, and after that various forms of social compensation or assistance. When tax reform and the individual tax reliefs that we accepted in the National Assembly as anti-crisis measures started in 2009 and continued in the years of budgetary planning, the revenue in the budget is reduced by poor billions and 200 million euros. When the Government and the National Assembly adopted many anti-crisis measures in 2009, particularly for the real sector, which has a partial financial impact in reducing tax revenues, and in particular in the area of social policy, in financial transfers directly to businesses. I am thinking of subsidising shorter working hours, subsidising waiting for work and additional retraining. All of this will be partially implemented in 2010 and 2011, while it will continue, let us hope that in a slightly milder form, the economic crisis and also the social crisis. This budget, however, provides minimum social security for all, including those who have lost their jobs not on their own account. We can certainly see that the employment crisis without anti-crisis measures would be much greater. By the beginning of the summer, they would probably have exceeded the number of 100,000 unemployed. At the same time, social dialogue with public sector unions should also be highlighted, which have agreed to align wages with the new salary reform, which has resulted for a long time, for a good 7 years, but in many better economic conditions, that the finalisation of this reform should be postponed for a year or two, while also correcting the errors that have occurred in the implementation of this reform. It is also an extremely important agreement on the coordination of pensions. Thus, the budget actually arose in extremely difficult times of crisis, both for an economy that is actually fighting for survival and still provides with its added value a means for the functioning of the country, and on the other hand the pressures of all those who are in severe social distress and with the income they receive as social transfers, or worse, for those who do not deserve to live a decent life with their honest work. That is why this budget is actually a crisis budget. The government preparing the draft budget for 2010 and 2011 was ahead of a difficult decision. It could draw up a budget which, with or without a minimum deficit, would be composed by increasing taxes previously abolished by or by the previous government, reducing social transfers, abolishing various subsidies to promote economic development, limiting development resources, halting major investments, particularly in rail infrastructure, canceling the European Community funds, unselectively reducing the number of employees in public administration. And what would we do with that? The economic crisis would continue, many companies would not survive additional tax burdens, unemployment would grow much faster, probably more than 150,000 or more. All of this would probably be possible, but I would certainly wonder whether this is also my government, which should have a sense of both development and social policy towards all of us. So a government that cares about development and social policy in this country. Fortunately, the government did not propose such forgivenesss and did not follow the strict Maastricht criteria and did not stop at a deficit of only minus 3% of GDP. It has decided to transform the budget into development policies, to outline the objectives of individual development policies, to make them transparent, regardless of where a specific development policy is being implemented by the Ministry. The revised budget will achieve the following: greater transparency of the budgetary process, greater accountability and individual discipline for results, greater transparency and coordination of individual development policies. With a relatively large deficit of 1.8 billion and a good 5% of GDP, the government has also introduced a fiscal rule that relates to the level of expenditure related to funding from integrated budgetary resources. That's good. The government must not give up pressure in the coming year after increasing the expenditure it will definitely be spending. This fiscal rule will only have an impact and will have a long-term impact on the stability of public finances. The budget we have before us today is developmental. Let me say with some figures compared to development policies, compared to 2008, when GDP grew by 3.5%. My assessment is that the real relationship between 2008 and 2010, since in fact 2009 was a crisis, where we tried to change the budget structure with two budget rebalancings, and, secondly, to align the actual budget possibilities with the actual situation. Let us look at development policy, promoting entrepreneurship and competitiveness. In 2008, €286.5 million was earmarked for this development policy, €397 million or €110 million more in 2010. At the same time, the biggest increase is precisely in the promotion of foreign investment, the development of tourism, the promotion of competitiveness at regional level, and more than €320 million is earmarked for this. We spent €490.5 million on higher education, science and technology in 2008, and we are planning 719 million or a good 230 million more for 2010. At the same time, the largest increase in technology and information society supports technological development projects is almost 150 million, with funding for study programmes and other programmes increasing relatively little. Thus, technological development is jointly earmarked for more than EUR 400 million. Transport and transport infrastructure in 2008 - 621 million, 2010 - 830 million or for poor 200 million more. Transport and transport infrastructure will be invested EUR 733 million, as these are actually investment funds. A large share is intended for the rail transport sector, which has certainly been underestimated in the past, and also because of poor investment in rail infrastructure, we today have slightly more problems in this area, including structural ones. Agriculture policy 2008 - 460 million, 2010 - 498 million or 38 million more. In addition, nearly half of the rural development measures totalled around € 210 million. So, that's also the money that's meant to be developed. Environmental and spatial policy. In 2008 - 171 million, 2010 - 262 million or a good 90 million euros more. A greater share of the resources is devoted to sustainable management of natural resources totalling EUR 175 million and the regulation of housing policy is intended only for the poor, unfortunately only the poor 8 million. Surely the Social Democrats would have wanted this share to increase, but above all, the relationship between rentals and ownership dwellings, which is probably one of the worst in the European Union, to be settled. This would help to ensure that many young people, especially young ones, would have access to quality arranged housing. If we just add that up, we can find that the government has earmarked more for development and investment than is actually a 1.8 billion deficit. Therefore, it does not claim from some Members that the deficit is greater than the investment-development contribution foreseen in this budget. Despite the crises and the decline in GDP, the government has decided that both development and investment must be invested and that it can also help the economy in Slovenia, so I can peacefully claim that this budget is also developmental despite the crisis. However, this budget is also socially oriented. Let us look at development policy, social security and health care, which is the highest evaluated development policy in this budget. Two billion 178 million euros were allocated in 2008, 2 billion 585 million euros in 2010, or 734 million more. Funds for social transfers, some funds for the implementation of crisis measures and funds for the implementation of an active employment policy have greatly increased. About 25% of the budget is intended for social security and health care. The government is aware that there is also a need to take care of socially disadvantaged groups in the crisis. All of this is the impact of the current economic crisis and could also be said to be partly social crisis mainly for those who are not guilty of being in a situation where they can no longer survive. I hope that funds, especially for social transfers, will be distributed fairly. It will be necessary to put in place a system of control over the receipt of various social security allowances rather quickly, so that we do not get into a situation where some find it better to be unemployed and receive social assistance from different sources and have higher benefits than to work. This is not acceptable and a rapid approach will have to be made to a system-wide solution to the control of social security benefits. That is why we can also talk about the social budget and the budget that this government has drawn up will also be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u59	Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I must say that I am very interested in hearing today's debate and I see once again that many Members and Members of this Parliament want to change the crisis as an indication of the poor functioning of this government, and in particular with some populist statements in essence to change the public opinion in order to make it even more negative as regards the functioning of the current government. One year from what the current policy has taken over, the year marked by an economic and financial crisis. Anti-crisis measures have been large, some have been successful, others somewhat less successful. But the fact is: the situation has changed. All that was ambitiously written before the takeover of power had to happen, or it would have to happen a little bit, and it is up to all of us to see how we can get out of this crisis, maybe a little stronger, or we can do what is real. It is essential that we have managed to stabilise the situation today, which means that the crisis would not have had any more negative consequences. We have kept a lot of jobs, with a lot of anti-crisis measures that have already been taken. However, it is necessary to maintain in our minds some fact that major systemic errors have been committed throughout the history of Slovenia, but have not been resolved in the long term; they have been saved by ad hoc or have been swept under the carpet, which has brought no development. And in a year of miracles, it's impossible to expect. We are also far from being able to make an extremely positive assessment of the work of the current government. We have a hard year ahead of us. We're not even close to being able to say that the crisis is behind us and that everything will be fine and good now. Unemployment will be a major problem and in this area we need to look at what is happening specifically in the budget. However, the aim is to maintain social security in Slovenia, to stop the exploitation of workers who feel the crisis at the moment to the greatest extent, and to set up a new development paradigm. There have been no structural reforms in the past. Although many governments have been full of what needs to be done in the future, how to structurally change our society, how to help the economy to work better, all that remains in words. There is no progress in terms of restructuring the economy, we have not experienced this. Good companies have been exhausted and therefore not ready to face a major crisis. Today is the time to take a step forward. We are coming at another time when, say, those things that are drawn up in the budget can really reflect whether they will make any progress or not. And indeed, the coalition treaty foresees many things that have not yet been established. The reasons are simply the situation in which we work. We may not be able to accomplish all that, and yet our ambition remains to do as much as possible. I wonder how those who had the opportunity to do something good would have acted in this situation, but perhaps they did not have the will to do so. It's nice to be at some point smart when you're watching things from behind. One more time. The situation isn't exactly the same. In the previous mandate, at a time of economic growth, and to rule today in times of crisis, there must be one big difference. And that's what we all have to tell each other. If someone who ruled in the economic economy, in economic growth, failed to make a plus in the state budget when conditions were ideal and high economic growth from us or from this government is expected during the crisis by great miracles. And that's basically what's two-faced when we're talking about facing an economic crisis. A lot of things have already been done. If you just look at anti-crisis measures, I'll only mention one thing so I won't be too long, it's a scholarship law. I have previously heard from a number of opposition MPs that he is concerned about young people for the future of young people. What, though, did you do when it was possible to give something real to young people? When you passed the scholarship law, when 17,000 applicants stayed before the government, because the scholarship censorship also took into account the child's allowance, including the pension, if someone received it after the father, etc. These are all the things you didn't want to see or want to change in the previous term. We've changed the scholarship law. It is estimated that 5,000 more scholarships will take place in the new school year. The Council of the Government on Youth Issues, the Subcommittee on Youth Issues in the National Assembly, was established. Coordination is the law on public interest in the youth sector, which has the basis for the creation of a national programme, what exactly we want to do in sectoral policies, from housing policy, which is a major problem, employment, which is a major problem, access to education, which is a major problem, involving young people in decision-making, etc. These are the things that are left untold. Again one of the systemic errors that was not resolved. If anyone has to show something in this area, it will certainly be this government that will be assessed at the end of this mandate. The fact remains one. In 2009, we witnessed a rapid deterioration in the state of public finances. It was almost overnight, even though some predicted it. On the contrary, the SDS made it clear as early as November 2008 that there will be no crisis and that there is no fear of such action in Slovenia. The fiscal policy measures taken in recent years have also contributed significantly to the poor state of public finances. The higher debt in 2009, which was one of the indications what this government is doing, you don't want one of the anti-crisis measures. We tied this money to banks and thus helped them to ensure better liquidity or fresh money for new loans. Actually, it's possible. For the government temporarily deposited the withdrawal of certain bonds, I am talking 1.6 billion euros or 4.4% of gross domestic product in banks. And this is an important measure. The largest share of this is an increase in the capital share of the financial institutions or the recapitalisation of the New Loan Bank Maribor and the New Ljubljana Bank of EUR 460 million. These are the financial resources that the Government had to take from somewhere, reserve and deposit. The public deficit, which is a lot to talk about, is certainly large, does not deviate much from the European average. The fact is that it will not exceed 5.6% in the coming year and will be lower for a good percentage point in 2011. Public debt is expected to increase to a maximum of 40% of gross domestic product, which means that, despite the times of crisis in the coming years, there will be a policy that will relieve public expenditure that will relieve indebtedness and put matters in as many normal circumstances as possible. Looking ahead, we need to know that economic growth has been based on an increase in indebtedness since the beginning of 2005. And the fact that this government is only now beginning to owe Slovenia is, unfortunately, unrealistic. As early as 2005, the debt process started, with a sharp increase in gross external debt of €10 billion in 2007, which means that 6.8% of gross domestic product growth was built on unrealistic foundations. The total external debt in the previous government's mandate is to increase from €15 billion to €39 billion, according to Slovenia's entire mandate abroad for almost the same amount as Slovenia owed from independence until the end of 2004. To understand each other, I believe that the previous government had good intentions by doing so and that it did its best. Everything was not so rosy with the previous budget and we need to know what the real situation was. And in order for this to not happen again, we need a completely different budgetary policy, we need a budget that will promote greater productivity, greater cost-effectiveness, efficiency or performance among budget users. And the point is that spending planning needs to be directly linked to the objectives and activities to achieve these objectives, it is said that we will know what we want to do, not only that we will reserve certain items for certain projects within the budget. We need to know what we are going to get out of these projects, we need to introduce evaluation, we need to have concrete objectives, how this will affect not only the economy, but also our people who work there. An important part of the development component, dimensions in this budget fall back on investment. In 2010, these investments will be carried out in concrete terms and the resources for their implementation are provided in the state budget ahead of us. This budget provides €1.7 billion for investments, representing 4.6% of gross domestic product and 16% of the total national budget. And that, you don't want to, will have an important impact on the promotion of economic growth. More than €330 million is earmarked for developmental conversion in 2010, which is more than €330 million in 2008. And these are important developments within this budget, for which many can make a lot of criticism, but unfortunately with little argument. The following area: higher education, science, technology, information society. The funds increase by €63 million compared to 2009 and by €228 million compared to what was realized in 2008. This shows that we are aware of the importance of this area, that we are aware that the future is in innovation, science, technology that will bring this society forward. If we look at the sumarum sumarum, all together, we see that in the 2010 state budget proposal, EUR 720 million is earmarked or provided for this area. Transport policy, which today was a lot of talk and also a little bit of criticism. We have not invested in rail infrastructure in the past, or almost nothing. That is why we are in the development potential of rail infrastructure where we are. If we look at, say, specific data, this is precisely the part that is increasing, i.e. EUR 243 million in 2010, as compared to 2009, which is the result of this, and this is the financing for the construction of railway infrastructure. The great problem that we are already facing and will face in the coming year is the problem of unemployment. Compared to 2008, labour market and development funds increased from €180 million to €530 million. I would like to have, when we talk about these numbers, always in mind that the crisis has affected our budget for 800 million euros. This is a large deficit, a lot of resources are less coming into the budget, but we have managed to find some means to ensure better development. If we look at the economic structure of expenditure, transfers to individuals in 2010 will receive €1.4 billion or 3.7% of GDP, which in particular means €314 million more than in 2008 and €71 million more than in 2009. The Ministry has also strengthened measures in the field of active employment policy. The funds earmarked are increasing by a good €33 million to over €109 million. In particular, what such a policy will help to improve, it certainly has allowed 17,000 direct transitions of unemployed persons from the active employment policy programme to more permanent employment, together with a total of 44,000 inclusions in various measures. I've just listed some of the things that are covered in the budget right now. Some positive things that will reflect some development and some progress. The fact is that the populist statements that Slovenia will bankrupt, sell or confiscate the territory of Slovenia and bring this country to a standstill are not a serious moment of debate because there is no argument as to how to face the measures taken by this government, the policy pursued by this government, by what has happened in the past. I hope you're wrong that the results will show otherwise. Some results have already shown positive policy. I believe that a positive policy will focus mainly on the long term, where systemic changes show this in particular and you may later, although I doubt, acknowledge what a good move this government is already making. But it is a fact that there is still a long way ahead of us, and we still cannot be satisfied with the situation in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u61	The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u62	Good-bye to all of you. This is a pleasant moment when each time the budget is reviewed, it also puts a light and a mirror ahead of the existing coalition and government. I would point out that just a year ago, some of you misinterpreted this as if it were SDS, but at the end of 2008, at the beginning of the government period and the coalition now in power, it was a completely uniform assessment by the European institutions that the crisis would hit Slovenia much less than any other country and that Slovenia would therefore have much less consequences because it has such a good starting point. You can read this in any statement they made at the time from the assessments of the European Parliament, the European Commission, the EU financial institutions. At the time, the assessment of this was uniform. And they didn't know one thing. They did not know that the only trait that could be used to measure this coalition would be its possum, which would reject all the proposals made by the opposition, categorically, make fun of and shame the interlocutors when she lacks arguments and does not make the right proposals and do not accept them. However, these European institutions could not have known about the current coalition, so after a year there is a picture of a coalition on the table. The budget shall be appointed for the next two years. In a way, we could use here again as a starting point the most protected secret once revealed by Minister Križanič. When he said, "I did, because under the current government everything went wrong, which could have gone wrong. That's Murphy's law. Anything that goes wrong will go wrong. And by doing so, he revealed which law is actually the only one that counts as ruling. And then you all know the following Murphy's law: that the natural development of things is from bad to worse. This is said, according to both rebalances, it is in some ways natural for the coalition to propose such budgets as are now on the table. It's just embarrassing how he does it. It does so by trying in all ways to divert attention from the only real, substantive, life-related problem that it has itself, and since this coalition is in power, it is also an all-Slovenian problem. Incompetence and inability to deal with the economic crisis and endless survival in internal conflicts within the coalition. That's the only way people can actually recognize her. Now they'll be able to identify her more and more by the actions. Not only by those long-term types waiting at employment institutions, but by both the revenue and the expenditure side of the budget. You're both in trouble. And so you wouldn't notice what the coalition is doing? Throws one bone in the public for another bone. Once it's incompatible functions, secondly it's a speech that should finance someone, although those who say it know it's a lie, those who then keep asking about it know it's a lie and they know it's the ones who told that lie, and they ask those who know it's a lie and they know it's a lie, and they still do. Because that's what they're paid for, they have instructions like that. And today, by the way, I had to answer it all morning, and I said the same thing to everyone. With all due respect, you know. That's the story at the end of which the piece turns chocolate. You all know that commercial, when in the end, one fairy tale is like that, all over your hair, and then the whistle turns into chocolate. But here we have a practical experience of the same story, the same story, completely invented in Slovenian conditions, and in the end some other animal, in particular a piece, turns chocolate. Same story. We could also make a nice drawing of it. That it is only a matter of turning chocolate in the end, you can be sure that some of you are very specifically entangled. If we had looked at the Internet at least earlier, we would know that at 14.11 Björqvist's statement for the State was published: "We have absolutely no evidence that the money from Patria ended up in SDS and that this is completely wrong information." I'm just hoping they'll investigate everything consistently. Also with regard to this incorrect information, which is already completely denied, ladies and gentlemen, you referred to it earlier in your speeches. You know, in the end, a piece of chocolate. I hope they investigate it because you know, whoever spreads the lie commits a crime. And some of you have directly proved that old truth, which is already known from the stories of World War II, that Mother Party always has two daughters - one is a fat lie and the other is an ugly slander and both are problematic. But some people do not give up this relationship, and that's your right, no problem because of it. Unfortunately, however, such a political culture is in Slovenia. But it's an awkward thing to talk about the revenue side of the budget and to read about taking credit. I don't know if I should wish some good morning or something. Perhaps the thing is that some see it as an example, yes, some liar will now be rewarded with one well-paid place in the European Union. But you know, it's not going to be because this person has always deliberately manipulated and given together what is a public debt guaranteed by taxpayers with public money, and what is a private loan that is a private risk to the borrower and to the one who gives credit. And the taxpayers have absolutely nothing to do with it, so it's a conscious manipulation and a lie, if then what is used as a public debt, as something to sow fear. The one who will be rewarded is not now rewarded for it, he will be rewarded for this story, at the end of which "the piece turns chocolate". In order not to be mistaken, those who think you will be rewarded with well-paid seats in the European Union for spreading additional lies. You won't. In the end, you'll just be unemployed liars. That'll be your problem. So, please, don't do this, let's work together to pour people pure wine. And pure wine in this case is this - the rise in public debt, you know, is in one year from 22% of the social gross product to 33% of the social gross product. And that's the debt that's guaranteed from taxpayers' money. In a single year, this coalition and its government managed to halve the debt created by all governments - Peterlet, all Drnovskov, then Byukov, Janšev and Ropov together! You've increased it by half in one year, ladies and gentlemen. And you're hoping to spread lies about who's in charge of this country. You're destroying the substance for the next generation at this point. If this money went into some well-thought-out projects, creating new jobs with high added value, I'm also the first to support you. But you're just bridging, buying time with this money, that's really all the policy that's in this budget and in that for next year. You're just buying time and waiting for the French or German economy to pull this wagon forward and that you're going to "get caught up" because you don't have any idea, no project, no concept - nothing! That's what your Prime Minister said recently when he answered the question in Parliament - just waiting for the German and French economies - to be interesting for both of them to lead right-centred parties, this is just a bit of a joke - to pull the European train forward. And then you expect there to be something better here than it is. That's the wrong logic. Instead of looking for their own developmental pathways to include them in these two budgets, the budgets are, in fact, unhuman when we go to the expenditure side, markedly counter-developmental, even in one part, contrary to fundamental human values. I will talk more about these things later when we are in the amendments, but how can you say that the developmental budget, if the budget that has been adopted in the past years has suddenly disappeared in this budget for the next year, an item that would allow the construction of one circular, which is at an extremely dangerous point, on a regional road, and covers a thousand or possibly as many as 2,000 people, entrepreneurs, economists, children, employees. It just fell out. But the money for the erased will be, yes, yes! Here you can see what's your priority. It's not a reliable development, but it's definitely a voter buy. Similarly, no one would have thought that this claim was unfounded when I said it was inhuman, it fell out, or for five years a road construction project was suspended, which would eliminate the worst black spot in Slovenia. It is a minimum of 3 km section of the road, which now has a sad record of the largest number of children who have been killed because there goes a regional road across the village, in Slovenia as a whole. And this project you've put aside nicely for a certain number of years, because it's obviously not politically appropriate for you. You have other priorities. On the revenue side, this budget is a reflection of the fundamental Slovenian problem, namely the economic failure of the current government, the lack of any initiative, lack of ideas, lack of concept and simultaneously unknown lending, the actual lending that will be paid by the next generations in Slovenia to bridge this period and in some ways make rapid use of this time to buy certain layers. You know, you've made it possible to raise wages for certain structures in the judiciary, you've got problems with how to direct all of this now to the benefit of the deleted, and so on. Here are exactly the layers that you reward and at the same time other layers that you are obviously punishing or depriving. Even when it comes to the issue of child safety, as in the case which I mentioned earlier, which should be a fundamental value, is embedded in the very origin of this budget. And then it even happens when, let's say - because he had the first draft of the budget that came into Parliament - even a large ecological project for the whole of Gorenjska fell out. And after I just made sure that some public controversy came out of this - and thank you to those journalists who have managed so much spine to support it and have opened it at all - one part of it came back into the final draft budget. Of course, you did not accept the amendment I tabled, but one of the coalition Members, that he is now beating himself on the chest with what he has done. Please! This is a project that was previously adopted by the government under the leadership of Janez Janša in previous budgets on our initiative. You threw all this out, and then you brought some of it back, because you haven't ruined everything for Gorenjska, which we've already prepared, but you've only ruined part of it, and that's now an achievement. Well, brilliantly, I must say, that is indeed an achievement to make a man grow weary. On the revenue side it would be possible to do much, ladies and gentlemen, if you would step a little bit over this pile of puff that prevents you - you already have some kind of conditional reflection, just that someone proposes something, you are already against it. Let me just give you one example. How can it be that so much of the most fundamental accounting knowledge this government has not had to curb its appetite for excises over the summer, and fuel would be cheaper than in neighbouring countries, when not all foreigners would compete, who would come full tank over all of Slovenia, as they are and even publish instructions on each other's websites, and data, let's say, diesel fuel in Austria, how much it is in Croatia and how much it is in Slovenia, that is how to get across Slovenia without refueling in Slovenia? It's just one case like this. And this huge transit means much more than you may have hatched from Slovenk and Slovenes and the Slovenian economy, thus further burdening and damaging it with these excessive excise duties. There we could capture a lot of those transit masses that would not only weigh it off, but add some value. And that's what you were warned about, because I asked the question. There have been initiatives on the part of my colleagues and colleagues who have made this very clear to you. Mr. Križanič said at some point, "Yes, we haven't thought about it yet." But you could have, because you've been warned. But in the end, you didn't do anything. You prefer to continue to burden your own citizens and citizens rather than to act by taking advantage of at least what is offered to you on the income side; this knowledge, ability or simply political will obviously does not exist. And then, of course, it's no wonder if it's the way it is, even the cost side. It's just bridging again, we've got a very anti-development text ahead of us. Counter-developed, this is something that will burden all other governments, development projects over the longer term. And unfortunately, this text - as I have already shown with some example - can be very clear, but I can say another text if you want - which is even contrary to fundamental human values. And we can only regret that this is the case with the adoption of this budget. Unfortunately, it reminds me of another story. But look at how to pour pure wine at a time like this, if, on the one hand, we have a government that for the first time in history has banned the publication of the official results of the UMAR, because they were so destructively negative, devastating to this government and coalition, because in many elements, at a time when others are already experiencing recovery, they have still recorded markedly negative trends. And when these outcomes, which are verified by the European institutions and are credible, are finally published, only a few hours after "accidentally" is followed by a sea of arrests. And even the economists I spoke to all knew who was arrested, what his story was, who was in the arrest, and no one knew how catastrophic economic results had been measured by the UMAR over the past period. A perfect trick and just by accident, of course, because everything is a case that happens in politics. And that's all it really is - that things wouldn't come out. And in this same context, we can also put forward a new proposal for an RTV law, because there is a proposal for a two-stage suspension of transfers. You're not afraid of seeing us, I don't care if you don't see us, the problem is that you have to see what you're really saying and what you're really doing. That's the problem. And that's what you're afraid of. I know what the problem is. And that's the problem, you have to show what you're talking about here and what you do when you press the button. That's why people have the right to see. This is the last window where you don't see just the image, just as you want to create it, but you can see what someone is really proposing and with what arguments and how it advocates, what its real goals are and what its real actions are. That's why it's a democratic value, and that's why you want to get this away from national television as soon as possible, so you can evaluate it first, and then you're going to cut off the savings, because it's clear what's really going on here. That, on the next such occasion, no one would be able to learn firsthand what this coalition has actually achieved when it submits the next two budgets, which I fear will be no better than the two that are before us today. On the contrary, I fear Murphy's law will be that the natural development of things from bad to worse will continue to be present throughout your government. And so let me finish with that parable that I was about to say, it all reminds me a little of that anecdotes, when in Arabia Caliph bragged about what he had done for the people, and he ran out of it, and he said, "Well, there was no plague in the time of my government." And someone from the crowd came back and said, "Yes, but because God is so good that he doesn't send us the plague at the same time." But I'm sorry we have this power and the flu with us.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u63	Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. I have to say that a nice thought, a nice word and a positive thought overcomes a lot of obstacles and what a problem. The ruling on today's debates will be drawn up by the electorate and the electorate themselves. And if we believe somewhere that every thought means in some way some kind of energy, I want more of those good, positive, those who want solutions to come out of this space. I'm going to put myself on the side of those who want this budget, which is not ideal, but it is real today, because if we accept this and that for 2011, then we will work, manage and act more deliberately. When there are times of crisis, this is when a house is built in the family, the year it is built, or in those years that we have given those we have built more, through, then you do not buy cars, go to sea, take holidays, or anything else. At that time, it is saved target for one project. In times of crisis and recession, we must first survive Slovenia and Slovenia. Even those who have lost their jobs in a web of sad circumstances. Social rights, health care, pension reform must also be taken care of. Personally, this budget seems to be very social. If we first make it possible to survive, then there will be a time when we can create more together in the long term and in the long run. Many times, as mayor, I face various criticisms and reflections. And I learned to think first about who's criticizing. If the critic of life has solved problems when he had a mandate, then I take the criticism personally and try to make things right. But if they criticize those who have created little in life, if in the state, municipal roads descend those who already have 30, 40 years of macadam in the yard who spend days in criticism, in various public facilities where they serve refreshing drinks, coffee and more, then I think to myself, man, because you don't have to throw yourself on the ground because you can't because you can't. If someone is criticizing the story of the budget because of some past weapons affairs, I have to say that I will give it right. I would be happy if the money that was lost or lost in Patria's stories, the various arms trades, since its independence, were to come back to the budget endlessly and we could share it between the economy, between the roads and the children. Millions and millions of euros were or were still brands. If someone's talking about some roads, some circulars, say local landscape environmental projects, and when he's been called four years to save them, he's done nothing, then I focus and look at other goals. However, in such projects that have fallen out of the budget, on the one hand because there is no money for all, and on the other hand because they should be in these projects, they are not, and on several occasions it makes me think that there are certain sets of ministries, which unfortunately were not included in that section of the human resources counter, that it is in their interest to have such a story brewed for us. I can't understand that there was a level at a ministry for three or four years that dealt with an environmental project, but it doesn't matter whether it's a Goranian, whether it's a pure Ljubljana, or a New Town, or a water supply in Pomour, that now, when the key moments were, he forgot to put it in the budget. It wasn't a coincidence in all things. One of the basic features that I can join to some extent with concern myself is the concern that the budget is spending significantly more than it has, and it closes with debt. If we are in charge of solving a number of European projects in the field of water supply, sewage, then this is useful and good for this country, because we are taking 1 euro credit, in a sense, to get 2 from Brussels. But if we're in charge of luxury, events, representation, then there's something wrong with it. What is obvious to us many times is that we should invest more in the economy in order to get this euro back quickly, two from the economy, I agree with this thought, is real, it is real, but it has a time frame that prolongs the matter, because all of these people who are waiting for it and will depend on it must live and survive that time. I'm looking for brighter points in the budget. I am pleased that this budget is the so-called target budget. Many who think ill of this have not pursued these goals. If, in the field of justice, in reform and in the budget, we set the goal of judging at shorter intervals, fast, fair, efficient and for less money, that is fine. If we want to reorganize the army, the police will find this swift, effective and preventative, so that the perpetrators will find themselves behind bars for the worst, then I also assess the good. I also credit this government with the fact that it was able to draw under the line, taking advantage of the crisis so that in part of the story it could be dealt with with with by tycoon stories. The tycoons have not been since 2006 and 2008 when we took up our mandate. Many tycoon stories have been judged since independence and for years to come. And this government, this team, I consider it an honor to cut things off, to put things right there. It is still necessary to wait for the courts to do their work. I'm not going down in the light of their decisions. They'll decide what they think is right and right. But the tycoons in this term certainly don't open champagne. And I consider this to be one of the important achievements of this government. I am glad that the highway cross ends on those sections where it should have ended a long time ago, but it is not. In this mandate, this will be done, and we look at the railways. Slovenia is, of course, still in need of reconstruction of railway infrastructure from economic, financial and economic considerations, that Luka Koper will indeed be a window into the world, that our neighbours from neighbouring countries will also want to have such a port, that they are bound to transport from this port and that we will keep Slovenian roads in good condition and that we will spend less fuel, that it also goes from the environmental point of view of road transport. I am pleased that there are a lot of resources in this budget for social transfers, for employment. That on the one hand we have a record volume of public works. That seems like a good moment to me. I am also pleased that we have also taken a step forward in the area of housing for young families and that we are aware of the importance and value of investing in science, development and research in this society. Last week, the scale was published. Of the thousands of European companies that invest in development, only two have been successful on this scale. And I think it's a nice model. Members and Members of Parliament, who visited the Institute of Joseph Stefan, we have seen that in Slovenia we do have a science that bears a good, beautiful name in this country also throughout the world and Europe. That we have people there who are ready for that scientific idea and know how to get it into the economy. And I am pleased that we are also spending more money and more money to be known worldwide and across Europe not only by excellent athletes but also by good scientists, researchers and masters. Many more things in this budget seem to me positive, good, valuable support, so in this support I will also consider how to improve, upgrade and repair the budget and, like all Members of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, I will also support this budget, which I will once again say is real, but it is not ideal, I am happy to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with co-workers and colleagues! Probably no government has ever faced such a difficult task as this government has faced in the preparation of budgets for 2010 and 2011. Not only the global economic crisis and the consequences reflected in the Slovenian space, but not only the unstructured economy that has caught us in an unloving situation, that the problems are even more difficult to solve, but also the challenge of creating a budget in a slightly different way, because we know that the bulk of the budget is cemented, so to speak, with legislative solutions and in fact the manoeuvre space remains very few. This is clear to previous governments and the current government. I am of the opinion that the creation of budgets for both years is quite successful, as the government has also faced three objectives. The first is that it forms an anti-cyclical policy and in this way it allows the economic momentum to start first and the social consequences remain smaller. On the other hand, to speed up development policy and on the third hand to keep it real. In short, to incorporate all these measures into the economic capacity of this country. I would particularly like to make a positive statement on measures in the field of social policy. Both prominent economists and economists have already made a very positive assessment of the government's actions in this area. That is why we have one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe in Slovenia. On the other hand, let me point out that it is this government that is designing a whole range of systemic changes, not only in the health, pension and employment, social protection and so on. New fresh approaches to how to manage this part of our country more effectively. Social transfers will target 3.8% of gross domestic product, but I was also concerned when I faced the Zzkona proposal on intervention measures, what this intervention will mean for socially disadvantaged groups. The first is that, in fact, we take nothing from anyone, no social rights, remains essentially realized. In this other situation, however, we are actually facing the real possibilities of our economy, but I would like to demystify a little bit of this black picture that our colleagues want to present. The previous government has divided social transfers into two large groups, namely pensions that are valorised according to wage growth, and other social transfers, among which God deplores, have also found some rights from work where they do not belong: maternity, unemployment and hospital benefits. These are not social aids, but they are social rights and it would be appropriate for pensions to think about the same way of valorising. But that didn't happen. Everything was confused in the same basket, and only the pensioners were strong enough to step out of the Act on the Coordination of Transfers of Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia, and all others are considered to be valorising their income with an annual increase in the cost of living for the period January - December. If we look at this, under great pressure there has been a change in this law, so these valorisations take place twice a year. Of course, the issue of valorisation is crucial when we are talking about high inflation. In this case, we can say that virtually all year long we have been recording minimal or almost zero inflation, so that no substantial increase in this inflation is expected, so actually half-coordinated with the growth of the cost of living in the individual's personal account would not mean more than EUR per month less income. With regard to pensions, this difference is slightly higher, but we will also not be able to face more intensive wage increases than we have seen in the last year than the results of wage coordination in the public sector, so it is likely that 500 euros in pensions will not be more than 2.5 euros per month or 30 euros per year, provided that wages increase approximately 1% per year. It is necessary to be realistic: what is possible and what it really means. It's not for people to take pictures of the devil because there's really no need for that. It is important to be aware, however, that we are moving in some of the real frameworks from which we must come. The second thing I would like to talk about is the question of public sector expenditure or also public sector employees. I must say that the government has played very well with the public sector trade unions, but at this point I would be a bit critical. One of the coalition commitments was to ensure that individual activities are transferred outside the public sector and, in fact, transferred to the non-public sector. And just so we're clear, the only partner that comes in here for me is non-profit contractors. The fact is that this was an extremely successful strategy, which has been used by Western companies in the 1970s when they faced the economic crisis and has produced extremely favourable results. This calls for better management of public financial expenditure in this area, as well as better meeting the needs of the population. I'm sorry, I'm really sorry that no government has ever realized this great potential, the potential of this strategy, which has been written by thick books. Finally, let me conclude that the opposition has many, many ideas on how to save and close accounts, but this story reminds me very much of a wise man who taught a farmer how to feed a cow. "He fed her according to the instructions of this gentleman, and in the end the cow died." I am afraid that this is the case with your advice, so I believe that what the Government has prepared is a good basis for budgeting for the next two years, but if everything does not work out as it should, it is still time for corrections and for rebalans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The list is exhausted. Anyone else in the general debate? [[Yeah.]] I'm opening time for an application. Sign up, please. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u68	Dear Vice-President, distinguished professional services, colleagues and colleagues, thank you very much for your input. I must say, too, that it is clear that the budget is development-oriented, the budgetary state is going towards taking a few percent less for itself, but it is more for science, technological development, economic incentives, the environment, investment and so on. It is also clear that the new direction, which has already been understood from the second balance sheet of the budget, has increased this year's development share of the budget, which is in the face of crises, and especially in the face of the financial and economic crisis. The 2010-2011 budget is set so that it is clear that the budget still covers all anti-crisis measures, which is important at the moment. It is focused on austerity measures and also recommends saving. Special emphasis is placed on the stabilisation of public finances, which is the basis for crisis measures. It is only after these three indents that it is always focused on the promotion and long-term development of the economy and restructuring. But what's very interesting is the ratio within this budget, so for 2010, I'm going to introduce it first, because at this point about 20% is designed for development, we've gone from 17% to 20%. 17% was a few years ago, and at this point we have 48% targeted for social services, this is the labour market, the development of human resources, health and so on, 32% for state institutions: the military, the police and everything else. The greatest progress I think is right in this, and at this point it is necessary to make an effort that maybe this percentage of what I'm talking about, this 20% of what I'm talking about, for development, needs to be growing. And it's only right that we go this way. However, why this budget brings or is drawn up somewhat differently, based on new foundations, you have all talked about it, on new bases, based on 16 development policies or has 16 objectives, not as it has been so far, according to the ministries. He knows what practice was like. The Ministry obtained its share of the cake and its own management and used it. The system we have put in place has taken a step forward, otherwise it will be clear exactly what the funds will be used for and what will be invested in. It's kind of a difference. An important novelty is also that marks this budget or the preparation of the budget, in order to bring development policies together as a matter of urgency. Experts know that very well. It will therefore force all inter-resort coordination, which has so far been a major weakness, which has made public spending relatively ineffective, and many times the objectives remain only on paper, that is to say unfulfilled. Today's the biggest word in the world is on the run. What's the deficit, why it's come to him? I almost got the feeling that I was at a football game so everyone could cheer for this deficit to be as big as possible. Everyone would like this deficit to be as large as possible. That's the feeling I got. And I say the opposite, and the opposition also aims to make the deficit as small as possible. The opposition, too. Together, we must have the goal of making the deficit the least. However, because it is a deficit, all of you know, experts in particular, it consists of a large number of parameters that help to make the deficit smaller or larger. Critics who fly to the current government are also unjustifiable in some ways. And the former government has also helped us to have at this moment a deficit like that of course we have. I'm only going to count three parameters, and just for a little while. A few days ago, we reviewed the final account for 2008 and found out: €43 million minus. We also found out from EU funds that we could get 64 more, and if I add that up, it's about 110 million. We could've done a lot of things with that. If they have not already restructured the economy, ensure the arrival of new companies, new jobs and perhaps also kept Mura alive and other companies that have gone bankrupt at the expense of this. That's two of us that's important. My colleagues have found many others. And thirdly, I'm going to mention what I can't somehow ignore and I can't understand that it didn't happen years ago. The reforms that the former government had planned and advocated, and then it encountered a slight opposition from trade unions or someone else to throw the rifle into the corn immediately. It's something amazing. Even this parameter, if the reforms planned in the previous governments were to be carried out at least in a minimum sense, today would have had a smaller deficit. That's probably clear to everyone. If I wanted to politicize these reforms, it is also true that we lived in a good global conjuncture at the time. And it happened that at the time we were running out of the economy, instead of doing it at that favourable moment in time for the reforms. Back then, it was time for reform. However, I cannot say whether these reforms were feared, whether they had no will, no personnel, or anything else. In fact, there was a particular emphasis that there was a clear impression that reforms were being implemented as if they were running and so on. In fact, nothing has happened in the context of these reforms. In these reforms, it must be said that a good master, a farmer of logic, I have heard this many times, saves and behaves wisely in times of fat cows when they are not so good. I even hope to make an assessment that the former government's priority was to lead the EU, and they have neglected to implement the necessary and necessary reforms in Slovenia. The three essential arguments that have helped us today to have the deficit we have. The economic and financial crisis, which has not only taken over Slovenia, must also be taken into account by logic, but has affected the whole of Europe, the whole world. And we have consequences here, too. For this reason, I would expect that within this budget, according to my assessment, in particular the professional services that have prepared it, we have all these parameters ahead of us and we will prepare it to the best possible extent in the coming year and even in 2011, we will be able to see faster development in order to channel resources into real development policies that will bring about faster development and long-term restructuring of our economy, which brings us new jobs and better jobs. Not that people are going to work for 400 euros. But what the unions are advocating today is 600 euros and more. This is our goal, and I estimate that the 2010 and 2011 budget goes in this direction and brings us this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I took the floor because I am listening to the expected black and white picture of the budgets ahead of us even in the morning, and if I put this in the context of the fact that they are supposed to be for the decline of economic growth, for the increase in unemployment and for any other obvious signs of recession, only those who have received the confidence of voters last autumn, then I find it irresponsible from the policy that they do not know how to link the causes and consequences, and several times it has been said how to act when the conjunctura is and then, even at the time of the recession, it seems to me, however, with a slightly faster and more successful or more active role, they can regulate. But anyway, I've heard some budget discussions in the National Assembly. If I add those at the time of the rebalancing, I have never heard the opposition admit to the coalition that it has prepared a good budget. What is changing in this context is only the circumstances and the question is whether we can reframe the situation in 2004 to the situation in 2004, 2008, the situation in 2009, 2012 and, after a few years, it will be possible to determine what the actual policies were, which also deal with the figures in the budget, which point to the priorities of this government. I myself have been closely following the consideration of budgets in several working bodies and, to this black and white debate, I would like to give some color and say that in the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth the evaluation of the proposed budget has been quite different from what we are hearing now and has received the support of Members and Members. It means that, within the scope of the options given, Members and Members have identified the priorities of this government in these areas, such as those that can give them their consent, and would like to see more of these areas. However, individual solutions are such that they have their roots in previous marriages, and so for some specific parts of the budget, for those concerned in particular by education, I can say that it is a shame if the money that can actually provide all development functions is less than the one with which the obligations arising from the legal provisions are covered. Nevertheless, I hope that the budget, which, in my view, has been designed differently, as the budgets have been so far, will show so much strength that, with a balance, a possible balance, it is possible to correct what will prove necessary over time. I will, of course, support the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Vizjak apologized. Mr. Lucky Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today, it has been heard that anti-crisis measures in the euro area are experiencing positive trends. This is the power to attach, of course, the minimum positive trends are detected. The planned public financial sustainability for 2009 is minus 5.9 billion and is projected for a year later by slightly less than 5.8 billion. When we are talking about all this negative situation and crisis in the economy at all, the country, for the number of unemployment that will reach 100,000 at the end of the year, as we have already predicted at the beginning of the year, the global economic crisis is, of course, a bad excuse, because the crisis can also be an opportunity and an opportunity for new projects, new challenges, and this is recently, when we talked about the rebalancing, the speaker himself said. But none of this happened. What bothers me is that when we talk about the salaries of those who fill the budget, we can find that these salaries will be coordinated by a new half of the increase in terms of revalorisation, one half of the growth will be experienced by what should be particularly in pensions, because it is past work, it should be at least at this level as it has been so far. Okay, the government has decided in this area to halve this matter restrictively. It bothers me that some in this country pay enormously. I've got judges and managers in mind. And if we are talking about the structure of public servants, it is also interesting to open the Labour Relations Act, that the public sector is not subject to job shortages, whereas the worker in direct production, who is the creator of the tax field, who sows, who fertilizes, and can also be cancelled for fictitious reasons, is currently out of work, we will forgive so many and so many workers. From this title, we have more growths every year, if I may say so, in the public sector field of work, and this is why fiscal sustainability is increasing. For one who creates and works must do so, also earns for one who enjoys a pension and for one who is in the so-called barren area is called the public sector. We in our party have repeatedly compared the budget to the field, the soil simply needs to be fertilized, plowed, sown and then reaped. We from this tax field only reap years and years, we have not polluted anything, we have not matured anything, we have not sown anything. And also anti-crisis measures, if you look at them, ladies and gentlemen, are more stimulating to finance on a Sunday. When we took these measures, of course, they were positive, I took them on the parent's working body for work and social and family, and I repeatedly pointed out that this was not going to work. If we are funding from the state budget of a company that is experiencing a crisis today to send people on hold, and we are funding it from the state treasury, the current measure is already good if we finance short hours of work and thus keep a company in good shape, we can say that this measure is good, but it costs millions and millions of euros. Speaking of new jobs, we should give young people the opportunity to have knowledge, sophisticated knowledge that they want to create new added values, which they also have the will and will to really introduce into manufacturing processes the new technological knowledge they have acquired abroad, and then we are talking about extending working time and forcing people to work there until the age of 65. This is the way the government thinks about making a change here too. In short, it's all over the head. Where, though, a person has the will to be innovative in the work process, knowing that at the age of 60, he is full of himself and can hardly wait for every individual to take a decent rest and enjoy the autumn of his life. Not by experiencing half the increase in what belongs to him each year, but by getting so much money in a pension envelope that he will live a decent life. But that's not happening. On the one hand, we have a protected public sector and, on the other hand, we are talking about some social sustainability. Social sustainability, respectable, is lacking in this country, and trade unions are responding accordingly. Sooner or later it will happen that the unions will also say it on the street, because they simply won't be able to keep them from saying it mass, loud and clear, of course. The way this country is broken is also seen in relation to the companies we have shut down without consideration. Thousands of people have been pushed onto the road and now we have, say, the Mura case, when we revive the dead man, we give him artificial breathing and we pass some special laws here. But when the country was fully operational when it had to save this company, it didn't think of that. She left thousands of people on the road, and now we're saving it. It was the same in Primorsk, the same in Dolenjska, Styria and so on. The same stories were happening everywhere. No one asked why we closed Kolinska, no one asked why we closed the road. All of these were companies that carried the world brand of Slovenia, wherever you came from, you could see these products. There is not so much pride in us, national pride, that we can keep what we have established in the world as a brand. Moreover, all those who helped dismantle the Slovenian economy are now privileged. These are, of course, from Bavčar, Skarta, not to mention these famous surnames, many other animal names, the wolves are in between, and so on, they would find, but nothing happens. The state seems to be silent to protect this, as if of course we had some deep protection for these gentlemen in government circles. And I believe nothing will happen. And that's why we're talking about the 5.9 billion deficit in this year's budget and next year we're planning 5.8 billion. Because of such matters, this is a causal link. And, as has already been said, because it is in the public sector; at least every minister has brought in a suit and no one has taken anyone with him because there are so many people in the public sector, I think that every ministry could be prepared to "risk" ten of its experts and make itself a team that should take care of the greater absorption of non-refundable European funds and the state budget should also allocate funds for this, but of course we could expect more jobs in the future. Because many projects are good, but because, of course, individuals do not have their own participation, because they do not have the opportunity to launch such a project because they do not have the support necessary to prepare the documentation that is today, I do not know, because one cubic metre of this paper needs to be written for some demanding project, these projects remain unrealised. And because young people do not get jobs, they leave Slovenia in a mass way, especially a high-school cadre. And where's the government? I sometimes have a feeling, ladies and gentlemen, that our Borut Pahor is truly, of course, visually acceptable to the President, but very self-conscious and that, I don't know, because he has healthy teeth, he's only moved on to "korglejks" and left the chacolina. There is no masculinity in him, no determination. And this is also appreciated by others, as you can see in the essence of the dean of the Faculty of Philosophy. What did he say? Exactly what I'm saying right now. During this crisis period, of course, you should somehow hit the table and develop those projects that will drive this car out of the crisis, not just deal with neighbouring issues. How many hours we've spent here for erased, how many hours we've spent on the Roma, not to say gypsies, how many hours we're going to spend on same-sex partnerships. That's all we're talking about in the National Assembly! How many hours have we spent for social policy, for the poor, for the unemployed? Very little compared to what I just wrote. I feel like we're agents, I don't know the marginal groups here in the National Assembly, and that our own problems are, at all, I don't know, because we can't deal with them, if you say anything, you already have a hate speech. In short, the public sector, on the occasion that Mr. Justice Minister was in our parliamentary group, we asked him when he would amend the Labour Relations Act and make employees equal before the law? When can these public servants, all of them in turn, be fired for lack of work? When? Never? In this mandate, this should happen immediately during this crisis period, now. But there's a legal void, and that's probably not gonna happen. As far as social finance is concerned, what should never be financed is a problem, and as the President made a presentation today, my President, the position of the Group to finance the Lenuches, this will also have disastrous consequences for those who are clearly told to tighten the belt. Why would someone work if they could go to the office and get more than the one who works? And what's going on? It happens that even after eight months when some do not get paid for their honest work, there comes a undertaker, who we call professionally, I don't know, the director of the company in bankruptcy and pays himself first hundreds of thousands of euros. That worker, who, of course, earned 8, or 9, 10, 12 wages, never gets that, because there are still 30 people waiting for him, and we call that a social state. Of course, that is not right, and we should also look for those responsible from this title. Each mistake, of course, also has a bearer, a task that has done this wrong. I'd expect us to find out who did it. Not everything is a result of the crisis. You know, the road worked well, Kolinska also, as it is said, the meat processing industry today has a programme in Italy that is being driven forward and will be difficult to implement this brand. I also once told the National Assembly that this is a disgrace to the 'premium' because at least this factory could be saved by the one in its territory. If I were myself instead of him, I would call this wolf to me and tell him to at least save this factory because it had a program and a vision, a business contract, signed contracts, but because of such matters, it went bankrupt - because of the greed of individuals. What bothers me most is that I have already said this, but that in state-owned enterprises, directors receive more wages than ministers and as prime ministers themselves. What's the logic here? What's the logic here? How is it possible that this is happening? Someone who is, of course, the founders of this company is a country, someone who is, of course, far below the minister or under the "premier" gets twice as many times as the minister or the "premier" himself in an envelope a month. The Minister would ask you if you could tell me how long we've been watching this, because if it's a crisis, then the crisis should be for everyone and we should first advise here and, of course, make order. It also bothers me that some people can illegally pay their million prizes, we know who they're dealing with, a million euros down from the state treasury, and no one can erase it. From this title, we have €5.9 billion minus. Also from this address. Last but not least, I would like to know who will be to blame for the poor European resources. We know that in the past, including the assessment of this government, we have benefited very little from Europe's grants. This budget is positively oriented in this context, that we have slightly shifted in this area, but still too little, I think. Even the funds we received had to be returned, which is a kind of disgrace. Here, too, we can find the culprits why we did not compete in all the calls that were visible to all of us. Why has Slovenia not obtained hundreds of millions of euros in its budget? But what I am particularly interested in is when will the position begin to think constructively and listen to the opposition as well. We are cosigners of a number of amendments. This practice in the National Assembly continues. Anything the opposition proposes is not acceptable to the position. And neither will these suggestions. That's bad. At these times of crisis, we should find a common word and perhaps listen to smart solutions from the opposite camp. I say that the budget can't be bigger because it can't actually be, because if we proposed something, we also had to say where we're going to take it. Finally, we would still talk about having €5.9 billion for this year and €5.8 for next year. The number would be the same even if we accepted these amendments. But no, we're not going to do it out of "greeting," and we're not going to do it because it's like a fashion fly from the past. Who's gonna get hurt, I don't know. And the biggest budget consumers. The roads are ending, someone said, highways, opening a new investment period on railways. The "Prime Minister" himself announced that he would lead a college of directors once a month on Slovenian railways. It's interesting what the Minister of Transport will do if the Prime Minister himself attends these meetings. But we don't want to talk about it. Who will be responsible, Madam Secretary, for the poor work done in the road? The highways are just one construction site. We have actually pushed through the open doors millions and millions of euros that we are going to draw from the budget today, because the works are poorly done and because in the warranty deadlines that are not, because the contract has not defined guarantees sufficiently well enough, we will have to finance this repair from the budget again. Well, and I'd like to know why we're gonna throw these hundreds and hundreds of millions into open fire again, and who's gonna be responsible? Either it's Dars or it's SCT or it's gonna be, I don't know who I'm not gonna be doing any commercials to. And I'm afraid that's gonna happen on the railroads. And we're going to invest billions of euros there, we already have a known contractor, so it's supposed to be GH Holding, and if this is really going to be such a bad job, then it's better not to go to work. In short, I would like an answer to these few questions, of course, and I hope that it will not be overlooked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u73	Mr. Tanko, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now, the debate on the 2010 budget is about to close at the end of the fourth hour or almost the fourth hour of the discussion on the budget, a lot has been opened up, both from coalition Members and opposition Members, Mr Žnidaršič has had a lot to ask and I note that the government of these two hours has not spent another minute, after four hours of the debates. In doing so, would you suggest, in particular, that they explain what is actually happening with this case of Patria in 2009 in the budget and what is envisaged for 2010? For this was announced at the end of the previous term, so Mr Squeakl, Secretary-General of the Government, that in the event of any suspicion of corruption, the Government will immediately terminate the treaty with Patrio. It notes that this year this did not happen, even more so, the purchase took place and for 2010 a certain item was set up, which is less than envisaged for the realisation of this project, that is to say for the purchase of this weapons system. I would only ask the Government to join the debate. Not to be heard again that, I don't know, any such or other rights have been violated by anyone who comes into this house and that something has to be done again forcefully past the procedure, past the Rules of Procedure, as it happened on Friday, to introduce and reopen the debate. In fact, I am disappointed from this point of view because, with a document as important as the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, there is almost none of those who are competent to discuss the global budget, including the individual issues relating to investment in various areas. Unfortunately, here we are again witnessing only to the silent representatives of the government. Instead of complementing the debate between Members and Members, they argued the Government's decisions, including the statements made by members of the coalition and opposition parties, in fact, they did not follow the debates of Members, and sometimes someone smiles at a joke or maybe with a mental combination that they did not want or wanted to launch in the course of this debate. I therefore propose, Madam Vice-President, that the Government be actively involved in the debate on such important acts as the 2010 and 2011 budgets and that it also substantiate its reasons, its views, its arguments that such a budget has been prepared and not otherwise. We have heard that a different budget is not possible at all, and I am sure that this can be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I'm sure the government, like the rest of us, has listened to your suggestions. I'd like to inform you that you're a magician. Kamnarjeva and Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs have already announced their debate and have proposed to hold it when the debate of MEPs and Members in general work is over. I know, it's their right. You're the one who gave the warning. Surely, I will tell you that you will report to the debate. Now I'm asking, do you want to apply now, maybe one of the ministers? First of all, I would like to ask Members and Members to discuss the general part of the budget. Please, I am opening the time for the notification of Members of Parliament and Members. Mr. Ivan Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u76	Thank you very much. This debate today is certainly extremely important for citizens and citizens of Slovenia, because here we would have the opportunity to hear what is planned for 2010 for 2011. But somehow I can't get rid of the feeling that there was something "placed" in the public today that was distracting. Early in the morning, there was news in Del that once again an affair with Patrio had taken on some new forms, new images, which of course had already been demented. But anyway, it distracts attention, and I'm sure it wasn't by any chance that those actors were back at work trying to distract them from receiving or monitoring such an important document as the budget. The coalition, or coalition MPs, as well as the Government, has been a year since you have been in the government since you have been in charge of this country, to monitor the solutions to the problems and problems brought into Slovenia by the economic and financial crisis from other parts of Europe as well as the world. However, if we look today at what was done during this time, I believe that even less of you people are not satisfied with these effects. Despite the fact that it was a year ago, however many of you are referring, this is shown by all indicators that Slovenia was in very good economic condition. This is not only the claim of us opposition Members, it is a finding supported by a number of indicators of international economic and financial institutions. It was not expected that Slovenia would be in as deep a crisis as it is today. A year ago, we had the lowest unemployment rate in the history of independent Slovenia. Today, after a year, we have this unemployment at the very top, almost 50,000 more unemployed in this year. A year ago, you had coalition MPs, as well as the government, an opportunity or opportunity to adopt those bills prepared by the Government on the way out. A few packages of legislation have been, which was a direct response to the coming crisis, I stress the upcoming crisis, as there was no crisis in Slovenia at the time. However, it could have been assumed that there would be, since no State was immune to it. At that time, however, you rejected all the proposals, except for the Guarantee Act, which prevented the bank system from breaking, so that natural persons did not in some panic raise their savings. However, inadvertently, with some audacity, arrogance, I am sure that you have rejected the good proposals that, if this coalition or this government were to be led again by the same people, those laws would also be dealt with and adopted. We offered a partnership. For, see, it is true that the opposition is usually the one that is more critical, trying to warn, but we have not taken over or wanted to assume only roles from some critical distance, but we wanted to engage constructively in solving this situation, because we are aware that now is not the time for prestige. There are still three years left before the elections, although it may be less, according to some of the coalition's forecasts, but this is where the species should have been torn down a year ago. We offered this partnership, it was rejected. I don't think that was good. If we were able to lead the European Union with the previous government, if we were able to bring Slovenia to the very top of development or through GDP to the very top, I am sure that, together with this government, with your government, with the existing coalition, a variety of proposals for legislation would be drafted and adopted, which would, in fact, respond in a timely manner to the situations that have come back to Slovenia every week and weaken the economic condition that have increased the number of unemployment from day to day, and from day to day, successful businesses have closed down. And today a lot of people say here that in Slovenia there is a difficult situation, that this budget is what it is, a response to the situation in Slovenia is, indeed, a very bad situation today, but not necessarily. It could be much, much better, no one claims that it would have been what it was a year ago, that GDP would have been plus 5% or even more, but it certainly wouldn't have been minus 8. And in such situations, I believe that the budget is very difficult to prepare, which will somehow give everyone optimism. Here we now face numbers, such debt already for 2010, as well as for 2011, 1.8 billion per year, that is very much money, and I am sure that it will have to be repaid for several years, if not generations. And that's not good. That's not optimism. Instead of starting to face the right solutions today or finding the right solutions to get out of all the problems, we are still listening to the proposals we make in the opposition or in the SDS day after day and in the debates that it is all the fault of the former government of Janez Janša, even though I believe that you do not even believe it. The priorities that you have entered into the coalition contract immediately after taking power, and in particular how you have implemented them, have not shown a willingness to respond to the situations that have been coming to Slovenia. For you were priorities: solving the problem of deleted salaries, court salaries, lawyers, and other marginal groups, one of the predecessors said so. This is where some legislation is adopted, which is essentially not necessary and cannot help solve the economic situation. We should deal exclusively with such laws as would try to make the economy better. Only the economy can get us out of this situation, no government, no politics. We have to give them conditions, and we throw them pollen, or you throw them with your tax raises, with your bad solutions you're essentially making it impossible for them to develop. Entrepreneurs are just asking, give us the opportunity to act and everything will be significantly easier and better, of course, for them. Otherwise it is now after a year of government, hearing from the government, the coalition that the results were excellent, that you are satisfied with these results. But he's kind of bragging about it with a smile, but it's a sour smile, laughing at the profession, the macro-economists. With sour smiles they laugh at you or smile at pensioners, workers who are unemployed, entrepreneurs, local communities. Nowhere, anywhere in fact, is there any enthusiasm for all these measures that you've taken, what they represent or imagine that you've actually presented them as good solutions. Also a law that was about subsidising working time. He was the crown of your mandate. I can tell you, and you know it yourself, he didn't give those expected results. We know companies whose owners are in the list of hundreds of the richest people who have abused these subsidies. Instead of people being absent from work, they had to work overtime. It means she was a total abuse of it. They received unjustifiably these subsidies with various frauds. Whatever. This law will only trigger a new wave of unemployment once these subsidies have passed. Instead of being restructured by people waiting where they are waiting at that time, they are essentially in a situation where they will be on the road one year older and probably even more desperate for a year. Here today it was possible to hear from Comrade Saiovic that this year there is a highway programme before completion. It's true, but don't brag about it with foreign feathers. For the motorways that are now ending, I speak mainly for the Lower Freeway, the funds were provided in the previous term when we voted in favour of the Coalition Guarantee Act, and the then opposition and the current coalition voted against it. The financial resources were provided in the previous mandate. At the same time, however, we have faced problems with landowners, who would be able to solve these complications even more quickly with the adoption of a law that the Government has already promised to solve. There is much emphasis here on how this budget is development-oriented. So let me know where this development is. It is obvious that some who do not know what development is. I'm sorry. How much funding is earmarked for science and development? Dearly beloved, in the New City the Government did not give consent, without a cent, without a cent to establish an institute to be co-established by the Faculty of Information Studies, which is a university of state, and from prestige or greed it did not wish to give consent. The amendment we have tabled that this same college, which has all the seats occupied, will amount to 150 000 euros to be able to prepare documentation to build a space, the campus, has been rejected. For the fights of €150,000, you are boasting a great deal about the hundreds of millions dedicated to R & D and the development of higher education. I wonder who's gonna get that money. Those who obviously need them, of course not. Then the funds provided for environmental issues in the mandate of Janez Janša were deleted in 2009 with a balance sheet, deleted in 2010 and are now greatly magnified here as to how this budget is also environmentally sound. The general regional waste dump was estimated at €7 million for Dolenjska in 2009, 7 million for 2010 as well as 7 million for 2011, and today we see that €0 for 2009 is €0 for 2010. Where's your developmental attitude here? She's not here. And the excuse that these funds have been wiped out? Yes, the projects were not sufficiently prepared. Of course, not if officials at the Ministry, as instructed by some, cannot even examine them and give a positive or negative response. On purpose, it's a stallion. I believe that no one in Slovenia is satisfied, mainly by local communities, municipalities or future regions with this budget, with calls, with all this. But I can certainly say that for Dolenjska. Nothing really shows that any significant funds could be returned to this part, which is absolutely necessary. I see this budget as extremely bad, and the revenue seems to be getting smaller, normally, because companies - instead of re-opening themselves, are closing. However, more and more costs appear at the expense, rather than saving where it can be saved. I cannot support such a budget in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I also see proposals for discussion. Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have now been discussing the draft budget, general work, for more than 4 hours. And in these four hours, all the Members of the National Assembly, not the coalitions, nor the opposition, did not deserve anyone from the Government to comment on the statements of the Members, the statements of the Members, the conclusions of the Members. I think it is right that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at the debate in the National Assembly, responds and actively engages. The purpose of the debate in the National Assembly is to discuss whether the allegations and indications and solutions proposed by the Government hold or do not hold, or the statements made by the Members of the National Assembly stand, have a basis or have no basis. This is actually the starting point for us to talk about doing something with this budget, because the budget is probably not ideal. Even in the Government's view, the budget is probably not ideal, but it is a compromise of the interests created in this coalition. Therefore, it would be appropriate for the representatives of the Government, who have scrutinised all these comments within these four hours, to try to respond to these comments. I do not think that there is any need for Members to debate in an empty and on the other hand there is no interlocutor. There's no interlocutor. In the National Assembly, it's the basis of conversation, it's communication. You're not here. It is only one-way, one-way, and I think that, in fact, if the Government does not want to respond, the matter must be stopped and the Government will "require" prepared the answers so that we can proceed with the meeting. Such an ignorant approach is inappropriate, not worthy of the National Assembly. And it would be good to have some concrete answers here to some of the claims made by colleagues from the opposition parliamentary gardens, regarding the Patria affair, regarding matters addressed to the other side of the parliamentary space. It is the responsibility of the Government to comment properly on these matters and to provide appropriate answers. That is probably why we have today's meeting of the National Assembly - to talk about the 2010 budget, the statements made by opposition and coalition members. Now, if the government doesn't want to answer, then we've come to some stage where there's really no need for us to even have a meeting of the National Assembly, that the government has announced time and so on. We are not about the government finally taking a summary and bringing a moral story to the Members and instructing them. We're for communication. We too are not always right, and our arguments are probably not always correct, but if we are to find out, a debate is necessary. This one's gone. And again, I would like to stress, Mr Vice-President, that you are calling on the Government to finally begin to respond to the allegations and proposals made by members of the coalition and the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I am firmly convinced that this time the government has heard your call. And you know it wasn't a procedural proposal. You know very well that I have no right to ask the government to report at a certain time. The government has 120 minutes of time available and has heard your call and I have said that the Secretary of State and the Minister have already notified themselves for discussion after the end of the general debate. If that is enough for you, none of you, Mr Tanko, even though you are the leader of the largest opposition party in the country, have the right to ask when and at what point the Government should speak. Does the Government now wish to discuss or even ask about the general debate? Ma'am mag. Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, why am I answering right now? In the entire debate of today, there was, in fact, no specific question to be answered. As a result, the Government estimates, or I, as a representative of the Government and the Minister, that enough is enough to comment and explain what has been said so far if we say so in the end. I'm going after the topics you've opened, commented on and discussed. First of all, I would like to open up the topic of Slovenia in international comparisons. In all the words so far, it has been stressed that, with the 2010 and 2011 draft budget, we are significantly worse off than other European countries as well as with the budget rebalancing for this year. The talk was mainly about the rate of economic growth or the rate of economic decline. Given that we have a debate on the budget, I will not limit myself to key economic indicators, but to key fiscal indicators. If I make a comparison of Slovenia with other countries of the European Union, Slovenia was 16th in 2008 at the level of the budget deficit. In 2009, it will take place at 15th place after the level of the public financial deficit and in 2010 and 2011 at 10th place after the amount of the public financial deficit assessed under the ESI95, this is the methodology used to assess the Maastricht criterion. These are assessments prepared by the European Commission on the basis of the stability programme submitted by the Government as a complement to the 2008 stability programme and information on the 2010 and 2011 draft budgets, together with data from the budgetary memorandum showing what will be the situation in other public funding commodities. That is to say, if we judge by one key indicator of the fiscal situation in the country, then it is difficult to say that it has significantly worsened its condition. In all these years from 2008 to 2011, it will be below the average of the general government deficit applicable to the 27th European Union. This is not an excuse for the relatively high deficit, as the Government estimates. I believe that the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, when presenting the original draft budget and then once again at the time of the supplementary draft budget, have indicated that this is a high deficit, but under the circumstances provides a relatively good combination of expenditure for various purposes for which the Government estimates that expenditure should be provided. This brings me to another topic that was open today; the structure of the budget or budget expenditure. The structure of budgetary expenditure is largely conditional on the situation in that country at the moment. If we want to guarantee social security rights to the extent laid down in the legislation, then we are increasing our expenditure on social benefits in the national budget by about one percent of gross domestic product compared to 2008. If we want to ensure that all pension benefits are paid without charge, then these costs increase by EUR 280 million from the state budget to the pension fund, with all the measures already outlined in the intervention law. If we want to pay salaries to public servants, and not only to those who make up employees in state bodies, but also to those who make up employees in public institutions offering public services, then we need to provide 247 million additional resources for this purpose compared to 2008, without eliminating the new parts of wage imbalances that have been negotiated or set up with employees in 2007. So the burden that needs to be borne within the budget, what I have listed, is about 3% of GDP. This burden in the face of other structural problems of the state budget, we all know that the state budget is not only a problem with the amount of total expenditure but also with its structure. Even during the course of the conjucutor period, this state budget showed a structural deficit, that is to say, a deficit that was not conditional on the country's cyclical situation. If we want to ensure this additional expenditure or increase these expenditure, which is conditional on the situation in the country or operation, if you want to, automatic stabilisers, it is, of course, impossible to reach a lower total and significantly lower budget deficit by not infringing investment investments. These are facts, as we are also on the expenditure side, which you have also criticised as a wrong policy in your debates, matters run significantly differently and are not problems at those points that you have highlighted. Our problem on the revenue side is the cost of value added tax and the cost of corporate income tax. The corporate income tax has split. And this is due to the change in legislation, and much more so to the fact that the situation of the economy as it is, and if so much encouragement were to be done at the end of 2008, we would not be able to achieve these budgetary gains at this time at a higher level. This is about 600 million euro outage, you know that, and about 300 million euro out of value added tax. This balance sheet situation does not allow the tax burden to be substantially reduced. The tax burdens decreased in 2007 and 2008, and this government did not increase them in any segment further over the various benefits that you estimated to be too small, resulting in a drop of about 600 million, taking into account the loss that will occur in the following year due to a different calculation or reimbursement of the value added tax. We know that this is only a delay or only the first month of operation under this instrument, but, at the annual level, given the way in which the budget deficit is expressed through the cash flow, this is about 300 million downturn. Investments. Investments in this budget together with investment transfers represent about a billion 700. This is a little less than a total debt, but not less, it is about 150 million differences, which, of course, shows that investments are significantly represented in this draft budget. If I look again at the comparisons with European countries, the structure of the Slovenian budget, both at the moment and in the years ahead, shows that the Slovenian budget in the structure has significantly more elements of investment spending than other European countries' budgets. And if we judge the developmental orientation of investment investments, then we probably can't agree to the judgment that there's no development investment here. Saving. The austerity of the budget, including this, has been discussed and touched on the budget structure itself. If I touch on the category that you discussed and relates to the payment of goods and services. See, the payment of goods and services is a category based on the economic classification or according to the domestic reference plan by which we record individual expenditure. This category includes not only the purchase of goods and services for operation, domestically speaking, administrations, state administrations, but also the purchases of goods and services, which are an economic category within individual projects being implemented. If we do this division, then we see that the category of goods and services for administration is not increasing, but compared to 2008 it remains 98%. However, there is a significant increase in the same economic expenditure linked to individual projects. You need to know that in this budget we bring a substantial number of projects that will be financed from European funds. Even though you felt that there were too few of them and that you had already estimated in advance that we would not be able to draw on them, we would probably discuss them at the end of the account, but in 2008 it was a reality; but remember that this was the year that was coming from the first financial perspective and the beginning of the second financial perspective; it was 500 million, somewhat later. For the second year, we have a billion 100 euros in budgets from the European Union, and these funds are linked to projects that, of course, do not have exclusively in economic terms investment expenditure, but they also have expenditure that is economically linked to the purchase of goods and services, such as various programmes for education of the unemployed and similar matters. These expenditure is, of course, increasing significantly more and therefore the overall level of increase in such expenditure is relatively high. But we need to know what their content is, and this content is talking about trying to maximize savings on those parts that we didn't think were so important to the development component of this budget. That would be everything on my side for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members. I have, of course, listened attentively to your discussions as a department minister, and it is not in my habit to ask questions that I would consider to be responsible for them and that they are in my power to remain unanswered in this place. It is true, however, that the general debate on the budget is a debate on the level, namely, the revenue and expenditure and the structure of both categories, and this is more than the competence and competence of the Ministry of Finance. Today, there was much talk about public consumption in the National Assembly. It might be a mistake for anyone who would listen to you today to think that we are only talking about the segment of this budget. These budgets are public spending and all those who have debated today that there is a need to reduce public spending have, of course, had a diametric opposite view, which shows how extremely difficult it is to draw up a balanced budget. The public administration must share the fate of the economy, which Mr Žerjav initially stressed and Mr Žerjav, I absolutely agree with you, of course. The public sector, as has already been said, significantly reduced the costs of material costs for its operations and, as Mr Vizjak rightly pointed out, made public servants unhappiness because it has significantly affected the already agreed wage policy in the public sector. Before this government, the dilemma was either to keep the government's deficit close to 3%, which would make us all the more happy, but with investments where we want to spend mainly European funds, where projects are ready and continue. Many economists have been able to advise this government that, at a time of crisis, when investment in the real sector is on foot, the state investment cycle is actually the only one that generates economic growth. These concerns were certainly on the ground and it did not seem appropriate for us to continue those projects that were under way where the documentation was already prepared, where investments could begin, precisely because of these concerns. The next important question was whether to cut into existing legal rights, or whether the current government could remove within a year all unnecessary bureaucratic procedures and thereby reduce the need for the number of public servants, whether we were able to make a decision within a year, whether all the public services that are being provided in the main work of the public institutions today - and here I absolutely agree with Mrs Megliceva that the failure of multiple public service programmes to allocate to the third sector in this year would be highly recommended; therefore, whether anyone is able to reduce the volume of public services within a year. We all know exactly that there is regulation in place and that so far the existing governments have been very closely implementing the constitutional provision that Slovenia is a social state. This meant that the scope of the services we provide through public services, i.e. in the form of public institutions, economic services, is extremely large. Which of these will no longer be implemented in the public sector, this is a relevant issue, which will in the long run define the smaller volume of resources needed for public consumption. And this is an important question, which is extremely difficult. All of you who have discussed have stressed that we must not interfere with the existing rights which are in Slovenia today. This means that we are in a vicious circle, which means that the development resources, as we all want them, as we want to help the economy, are gone. Only 15% of the overall budget, we all know, is not unknown, is only available for development, everything else is legally defined obligations and rights that the National Assembly has adopted and played in various mandates and wanted everyone to contribute to the well-being of the Slovenes and Slovenes. And it is true, Mr Vizjak, that the measures taken by this government, if I say the measures that we have taken at the Ministry of Public Administration and which I have favoured as a negotiator with the public sector unions, do not guarantee the well-being of public servants. They ensure the sustainability of public finances and great dissatisfaction among public servants. You have said well, we have managed to complete the salary reform in the long term in the social dialogue, so it is our fault that we do not implement it. I take this responsibility, Mr Vizjak, I am precisely writing that you have written that we do not guarantee the well-being of people because we have not abolished the injustices in the public sector and we have not given the employees what they have done in the past. That is why your colleague Grims, who said that the policy we are implementing is aimed at giving more to individual groups. If that were the case, at least I would, if I wanted to be politically recognized as a kind and good minister, simply divide the public servants or demand that the pay reform be implemented in full. I wish I did. Staff members shall do their work honestly and shall be entitled to an appropriate payment. Your government's promises are not realized. The paid reform remained at half-way, and due to the sustainability of public finances, public officials agreed to reduce the rights they were entitled to for the second time in 2009. All the clues that show that we're not nice, that we don't want people's well-being, of course, are out of place. We could not afford simply spending and not saving in the public sector because of the economic situation. Several of you have stressed that it has been unacceptable to increase the salaries of judges in these two budgets. Please, please, who can show the budget line for 2010 and 2011, which would show an increase in the remuneration of the judges for the abolition of the anti-constitutional situation. With the amendment and amendment of the Law on the Public Sector Wages System, we have abolished the unconstitutional situation and, with the consent of the judge, we postpone the lifting of the unconstitutional situation due to the financial crisis in 2011. Even then, when judges are reduced, such as the policy of the Ministry of Justice, there will be no additional financial consequences. Thus, there are no such funds in the two budget lines. Nor does the fee to increase the salaries of judges, except in the context of agreed coordination with inflation and, last but not least, the judges have reduced their personal income by 4% since April 2009, as well as Members and Members and Ministers, because they are officials. Mr Jelinčič proposed cleaning at the ministries by 50%. Look, you know, during the previous government, in four years, the number of government officials in the ministries did not go down, there were 140 less employees in the administrative units - we're talking about administration. At the same rate, we are also reducing the state administration. However, there are certainly no adequate public officials at the ministries by 50%. If, in four years, the previous government has estimated that it can do its work without 200 administrations, that is, so much less in all four years, then this government, which has to face in addition to implementing its programme commitments to the crisis, is such expectations of a 50% reduction in the number of employees, of course, absolutely too. Mr Žerjav said that the Ministry of Public Administration had reduced its budget and costs for the administration. Here. By 3.4 million euros, but at the same time we have increased, we have increased the development part of our budget. Just as all my colleagues at the ministries have done, at the expense of drawing on European funds, with the change of operational programmes, and we wanted to improve public administration with development. Where did these funds go? Almost 10 million have increased funds for more efficient and efficient public administrations, in particular to support the informationisation of the Ministry of Labour's business processes through the creation of a single entry point and the Ministry of Economy's Single Contact Point. It is the implementation of the Service Directive. This comparison of indices with individual ministries, and thus the perception that ministries have saved or not, is in fact not in place because of the new budget structure. This is also the appearance of saving the Ministry of Public Administration at a point where we are reducing the costs for our work, where we are self-limited and increasing the cost of work, for projects that are important for improving the competitiveness of the economy. I would also like to answer Mr Friend's question, perhaps in the second part when he is here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u83	Anybody else want some? Mr. Uroš Krek, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I would like to answer Mr Tank's direct question about the continuation or fate of the Patria project. First of all, I would like to say that we are not talking about the acquisition of patriots or Thessalonikis, as we now call ourselves, but the 2010 and 2011 budget says that the establishment of the Central Battalion Battle Group is a key priority for the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The contract, as you know, is ready for 135 vehicles for EUR 278 million by 2014. In 2008, 13 vehicles were to be taken over, a value of around EUR 30 million, which was not carried out due to technical difficulties. In 2009, we took over 13 vehicles worth €30 million instead of 39 vehicles. The purchase of medium-sized wheeled vehicles is also foreseen in the budget or financial plan 2010 and 2011 under the heading Basic Development Programmes. The basic development programmes are foreseen by law up to €105 million per year. In 2010, €45 million and €30 million were earmarked for the Core Development Programmes and in 2011. Part of these funds are also provided for the purchase of medium wheeled armoured vehicles. And as you can see, in this area too, the government rationalizes purchases and also saves. The Ministry of Defence for the Government is preparing starting points for negotiations with the contract partner to reduce the number of vehicles, as the military with the new targets of the force no longer needs so many vehicles, to change the upgrades that would allow the planned capacity to be achieved in 2005, which, in particular, in terms of military strength and thus, we do not achieve, in order to extend the delivery deadlines, which is in line with the rationalisation of the financial resources, and also for the lower value of the contract, which is also a fundamental objective of rationalisation, which today has also been the red thread of the entire debate. Of course, the contract is in effect. In the event of proven corruption, the contract will be terminated. In the event of a successful negotiation, given what I said earlier, the contract will continue, and there are several other options between these two failures. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Any other representatives of the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to Mr Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. I would certainly like to thank the representatives of the Government that after about five hours we have received an interlocutor, which is a small step forward, perhaps small for this Parliament, but certainly large for the Government. What should be pointed out is, in fact, what has not been answered. Let's go in one order. Madam, who spoke about the aspects in which we are at the level of public debt in Europe, said a small part, but she forgot the key, what we talked about, and so I will always formulate a concrete question, and I hope that it will then be a easier concrete answer. How is it possible that the economy has grown to an absolute record of Slovenia's decline in the entire Euro Group? Before that, we have been set a number of years as an example in the European Union, rather than those who are making the fastest progress. And how is it possible that the decline in Slovenia is significantly greater than in most neighbouring countries - say, Austria, Italy and so on? There is a significant decline in Slovenian GDP growth, which is the starting point for this budget. That's what you've been avoiding for a long time. How is it possible to increase at the same time the proportion of GDP public debt from 22% to 33% - is said to be about half - while at the same time the number of unemployed increases from 60 to 90 000, the key indicators of economic performance or the failure of each government? How is that possible? Because that's what you've been avoiding. Of course, you said that we do not yet reach some European records in the share of public debt, and we fully agree here. But you know what you actually said about that? In fact, you have defeated all coalition members who previously categorically denied what quality legacy you have taken from the government under the leadership of the SDS or President Janez Janša. You've all said before that there's no trace of this. Now you have said exactly that, of course, because the starting point was so quality, but you have made it worse in the same year for half of that public debt, which is actually guaranteed by taxpayers with your money, for half of it has made unemployment worse, which has been marked by growth in recent years, thrown into a very catastrophic fall, into a terrible type of unemployed, and will continue to increase unemployment for a few years, as we have heard since Umar's announcement, the governments themselves as European institutions. How did you manage this in one year if we know that it is already the end of 2008, already during the time of your government, ladies and gentlemen, that the European Union has had a single assessment of all institutions that the crisis will affect Slovenia less than some of its neighbours?Oh, my God! This would be answered because this is the starting point for this budget. Let's move on. There are questions about how you can say that you are not buying individual groups, but at the same time see how only the government’s actions to certain people within the government’s set-up for some high officials in the government near the government raised the salary for five classes, at a time when it talked a lot about saving. And if that's not enough, how could she raise the initial salary for seven classes for individual justice officials, as we can see at one of the meetings in the previous period. And that's where all the money that was going to end the judicial backlogs was poured out, so it wasn't formally about any increase in the amount of wages, but about the substantial restructuring, it was all about the net wages that was meant to encourage the reduction of judicial backlogs. That was the whole game of that story. Next question - when you talk about European funds. Here I personally wonder how it can then be that some of the items in the previous budget have simply disappeared and have already been adopted and it is precisely what makes it possible to start European funding at all. Specifically, I'm not just gonna say inconspicuous things. Gorenje project of sewerage and construction of cleaning facilities of Gorka and water supply, including the bloodstream. That was all in the budgets, all gone. They received, after we had taken care of some of the public issues through the media, the mayors of these municipalities from the lower end of Gorenjska made some vague assurance that these funds should somehow be taken into account in the final draft budget, but no one is quite sure whether this is now fully taken into account, or in part, and how and indeed what will come out of it. However, if you want to make things transparent and believe your words that you support projects where it is possible to start on European funds, I am sure that you will prove this by voting for the amendment for Gorka, for the mountain sewage system and cleaning plants in the regular 17 million and for the bloodstream an additional 2 million and a half - a total of 20 million. And your words will be consistent with your actions. However, frankly, I would love to see this, but I would certainly prefer to see voters and the public who are now definitely following us in ways that are their lives. And since it is a life that is supposed to be a key value, and since there is a Minister for Transport and Communications among us, I still have a very specific question for him. In fact, the project of building the road, known after five years, disappeared from the budget, is a famous record, a sad record that, for the first time, the project has been in construction, that is, since 1981 - it has been a complication with the commotion, which has led to a whole lot of judicial proceedings and has therefore not been completed. And on those poor three kilometres there were so many children and so many seriously injured, permanently disabled children as anywhere else in Slovenia. And for this road in the time of the previous government, not by the government, ladies and gentlemen, by the municipalities in the first place of Shenchur and the Kranj municipality, all the material needed, all the necessary acts, everything was done - what the Government should do. And also about the circle when you're talking about economic development in Shenchure, which I mentioned earlier, that there is a highway on the Brnik road - so this is a strategic link - and all of this was already in the budget, in the previous budget, even in the last budget rebalancing you had it, now it has disappeared from the budgets for the following year or it has been delayed for a long period of years without any kind of necessity. [[...]] Nothing was forgotten here, unless he forgot he was a Gorenjec. The problem is that it obviously does not want to help carry on projects that are extremely important in terms of safety, from the point of view of preserving human life. I wonder how that's possible. There, the municipalities took care of everything the state should have done: all the agreements were obtained, one part of the purchases were made, all the acts were adopted, everything was basically financed by the municipality, part of it was later, after it had been put before the fact, also contributed by the state; and this came into the budgets, and this began to be co-financed. And all the means to complete this construction, to complete the redemptions that are already taking place on both of these projects, and to complete the construction - because it is not a problem, it is one small part of that money that you are now "pushing" through the window to issue so-called deleted those final administrative decisions. And we would take care of the safety of specific people, preserve, God knows how many lives, preserve the gods of any family. Can you imagine what a tragedy it is for a family who experience something because of the sad fate of their child? And that's what we're talking about here. And how this could have gone out of budget, it is not clear to me. If you're in the final balance, your government had it in the budget. This is now suspended, and there are larger sums in one case, and in the other case after 2010. In the meantime, look, there are local elections. And that's why I don't believe anyone's forgotten about it, but it's political accountability, which in this case is playing with the security of specific people. And that's unacceptable! That is why I said earlier that, obviously, in some parts, this budget is even contrary to fundamental human values. And you've also avoided the question one kilometer in this regard. These are all questions that are being asked, and these are all the things that make me believe that government is not easy. And I appreciate those of you who are here, and I am sad that those real interlocutors are not here now in the first place that you would need, especially the Minister of Finance and the President of the Government, because he is basically the budget proposalr. These are open questions that I believe have kept you silent for hours because you knew that you would not be able to answer them properly, in particular. These are certainly the reasons why attention is constantly diverted. And even that story that I was talking about and that was now the bone of the last 24 hours, it's been completely lied to, about who should be financing someone, I don't know how. You know, in the end, like we said, a whistle or a piece of chocolate wraps, the fairy tale is perfect. I certainly only hope that in all these stories - and I am sorry that I would also like to assure the Minister of Justice that these things will no longer be carried out in accordance with the principles that once applied to the ownership of the Slovenian economy and that all these things will be investigated and investigated as soon as possible and experienced by the judicial epilogue. Even where they are not directly linked to us, I just hope that the Finns have not already learned from some in Slovenia, let's say to a judge who has written a decision so long that the case is obsolete where the judgment has already been handed down. In fact, it's all been going on for so long now that it stinks of wanting to drag things on so long that it won't be possible then to sue all liars for damages, so that it won't be possible to file a criminal complaint for all those who have mutilated Slovenia and the people in it, specific people at home and abroad, because all of this would have to happen again in order for something like this to never happen again. Mistreating Slovenia with lies abroad, forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, is an incomprehensible crime, much worse than anything else spoken in this House. And those who are conscious of doing so should also be responsible. I just hope it's sooner or later. After all, this may not seem to be a topic related to today's topic, but it was opened by some in the coalition itself, in the morning, when you didn't know about the conscience that I then quoted as completely denying that the Finnish investigator had any information about any financing. And I only hope and we will hold him to the word that he will indeed investigate the complete whole story, of all the clues that have been brought to an end; even in this part of who sent these clues. For, ladies and gentlemen, false accusation, false accusation, slander is also a crime. And if someone does it about his own country abroad, it's something that's so sad that he deserves to have a political culture developed by a judicial epilogue. I would also like to end this, but I hope that you will have a happy hand in the vote on the amendments and that you will confirm your own words by doing so.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kamnareva has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Dear Dr. Grimes, I think you've misunderstood my speech or you haven't listened to me. I was talking about the country's sector deficit according to the ESA methodology, but you said I was talking about debt; these are two very different categories, very, very different. The deficit is only an increase in debt each year, and there is something else in it. So, we didn't get along, I didn't talk about what you were talking about, but public debt increased for a number of reasons and started to increase in 2008. For the first time because there was a deficit in the state sector - I will talk again about the category expressed in the same methodology, i.e. after ESA-95 - the deficit in the state sector in 2008 amounted to 1.8% of the gross domestic product because it was rising to 21% of the public debt you were talking about. The deficit in the state sector in 2009 is likely to be around 5.8% of the gross domestic product again measured by this methodology and will continue to rise to this debt. These are the categories for which public debt will increase. There's something else you need to say. Methodological changes last year also included a housing fund that was in charge last year and this year. When and by the Court of Justice their obligations were not paid by the sale of property, but by additional debt, and the health department is in deficit due to lower contributions due to the lower base. These are again those factors that help to increase the debt of the state sector, not just the budget of this category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u89	Thank you very much. [[The ad in the hall.]] That would be a replica of a replica. You will get the floor, Mr Grims, because we still have a general debate. Now Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Mr Patrick Vlačič, Mr Vizjak has asked for her before, Mr Saiovic. That's the order. [[The ad in the hall.]] Your turn, Mr. Saiovic. Ministers also have the right to participate whenever they wish, but Mr Vizjak did ask for the floor before ministers were given the floor. Madam Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes, sometimes I don't know if you're actually making fun of me. You asked why the government paid judges for seven classes, and there was a debate in the National Assembly where I worked very hard and tried to answer each of your dilemmas clearly and loudly. And now, after all this debate, after the Constitutional Court is the referendum initiative you tabled to pay judges to the referendum, and you ask me why we raised the judges' salaries by 7 classes in 2009. The first is: in 2009 the effects of changing the salary policy of judges will not be, nor will they be, all of 2010; and you know that exactly. You yourself have admitted that you know that it was not an increase in the volume of funds, but you estimate that it was a reallocation that you consider unacceptable. Why did we have to do this within six months in 2009? For the second time, the Constitutional Court has decided that what you have done in the previous term is not in accordance with the Constitution, that you cannot define judges who are statutory officials as public servants. And that is exactly what the Parliament of the State did on the proposal of former Minister Virant, and the Constitutional Court said twice: "This is not in accordance with the Constitution." That is why we had to end this unconstitutional situation and also resolve the dispute between the executive and judicial branches of government that have already exceeded all the limits of healthy taste. We also did so without financial consequences in 2009 and 2010. The Ministry of Justice also argues in relation to the employment policy of judicial officials that there will be no such consequences in 2011. However, that there are no more supplements for regular work performance, for increased work volume, for supplements such as public servants, is a fact to which judges have resigned themselves. As you know, we have reached an agreement. And the position that judges in Slovenia today have on the basis of this reform or novel proposed by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly is the majority of the judges in the Member States of the European Union. The government of senior officials has not increased wages for five payroll officials. The policy of the officials of this government in 2009 is as follows: we have reduced the salaries of the judicial officials by 4%, including Members as officers of the legislative branch of the government you have joined this law and you have a 4% lower salary, ministers have a lower salary, we are officials of the executive branch of the government, by 8%. That's all and that's what we did.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Dr. Patrick Wlačič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u92	Thank you, Chairman. Mr Grimms, how did you manage to connect the cleared and state roads, that will remain a mystery for me, but fine. Look, we have 6,000 kilometers of state roads in the country, and under your mandate, you started one story on state roads that I support, that's that a lot of money has been transferred to state roads. This is your decision, which I think is good, I'm leading on, but it's not as much as I'd like. I have made a proposal to the Government, but you know that for limited reasons, charging the budget is worse. You've heard this explanation over and over again, that some of the projects had to be slightly delayed in time. This isn't the only one we've got. I agree with you that any infrastructure that is dangerous is such that it must be repaired as soon as possible. There's no dilemma here. Because these state roads are so big, I've decided on one thing that I think will solve in the future the kind of question that you've asked me. It is a matter of preparing a national programme for the construction and reconstruction of state roads, where, according to pre-known criteria, something will be determined, where and when it will be restored. Because now, you know, you've been in Parliament for so long that you know that the decision is the result of some professional assessment of the ministry's services and then - the proposal of the Minister of Government and Government to Members, but there is not enough transparency in this. My wish is that when we prepare this state programme, this will be in the first half of next year, it will be possible precisely, according to criteria that may be known in advance, such as the number of vehicles such as, say, the danger to school and preschool children, such as agglomeration, where this road leads and so on. It is said that, according to well-known criteria, it is more important to determine what is more important, what is less important, to eliminate arbitration in the reconstruction and construction of road infrastructure, so I support this. In so many ways, I can tell you that we will make this as transparent as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Initially, on behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to point out that each Government is preparing a budget or a budget in the context of the situation and circumstances that govern it. It is therefore difficult to compare a number of moves and, last but not least, laws and legal obligations in the past with the present. However, these budgets from the past and those that we have on the table have one common feature, and should not have these common characteristics, that is, this expenditure foreshadowing. The former government was able to afford many projects, including a number of new legal obligations, because it also made sure that it deviated significantly more positively from the average of the European Union in certain circumstances. Let me remind you once again that we have grown by 3% faster than the average of the European Union, that we have reduced the development backlog, that despite the reduction of taxes we have managed to secure inflows to the budget due to economic growth, which was greater than planned and foreseen in the past. So these were the basics, but we shared the same European environment as some other countries, such as neighbouring Italy, which was barely growing at that time - and so we hunted these countries with appropriate policies. We would expect the current government to do the same to adapt its policies, budgets, measures to the situation and to be more effective than comparable countries, but this is not the case. This is a problem that we have been alerting throughout this budgetary discussion. Here we listen to the observations of people, especially the younger ones, on the opposite side of the coalition, if we did not save enough in the time of the fat cows, so that we would now be able to deal more easily and fill these uncontrollable expenses. Yes, that's not true, Your Honor! Once again: each year's spending of the country needs to be adapted to the situation and the situation and to those who are filling this expenditure. Here I have to say that, in fact, such an epiphany can forever appear, it's never enough saved up, laid down for someone who comes and has big eyes. It's also not true that there wasn't a plus in the past. The State Secretary spoke earlier about the public financial deficit and it is clear as a white day that the country had a half-per cent surplus of gross domestic product in 2007. It is true that by the start of the crisis in this wider sector of the country, all of which covers a European standard under which debt is set to cover certain companies, such as Kad, the Court of Justice, which did not sell investments to meet their obligations, because their market value was very low and was below some value, so they leased loans. Normally, this is how it works at a time like this, and it is normal that this public debt has begun to increase as a result of the crisis. Nor is it likely that some of the many announced rationalisations have been carried out in all sectors of the country and the result is increasing pressure on the expenditure side. In such a situation, it is necessary to seriously address this expenditure, not with some, I would say, a few million-euro beauty intervention. In this way, such a crisis, which has reduced inflows to the state budget by hundreds of millions, is simply impossible to parise. Your Honor, this is a key, main omen of the opposition, on one side. The second point is that the government has not yet succeeded in time, despite the opposition's suggestions, in preventing such a drastic fall in economic activity. We have proposed that it is at that time, that is, at the start of the crisis. Last autumn and this spring, it was necessary to give positive signals to the economy: invest, give you relief - because the economy was in the middle of an investment cycle - invest, here you have a financial sector service, credits. Credits have been exasperated, huge insurance is still needed for them today and, in fact, such expensive loans are not tolerated by the normal economic project at all, and so is the credit crunch. All of this was gone, and it is normal that things have practically settled down. I would like to point out that the Government has received in the management of the country in some of the changed situations, but with the good foundations they have been. One of the good bases I will stress once again, but today it has not been said, is that it had a reserve of 300 million euros for excise duties on motor fuels. You took 300 million euros from people in oil derivatives and put them in the budget because you were at the minimum level of excise duty at the time of entry, according to EU rules, and now you are at the maximum level of excise duty. So, also this reserve, which in fact weighed almost the entire tax drop from corporate income as a result of the crisis, was a reserve as a legacy of the past. That's what they say, it's not so damn wrong and it was so bad at the show that we could do anything and always flip back. A respected coalition, I ask you, not after a year of government to look for culprits and reasons for inefficiency, for some bad statistics and a traveller of this country in one year's time who has stepped down from the government, but probably sometimes it is necessary to look into the mirror. And all your back-eyes are getting less and more convincing. I see that they are no longer being served by the Government, because it feels more or less like certain Members who obviously do not understand that they are becoming unconvincing. There's something else I'd like to mention, and then maybe there's another question. When we want to promote an economy or work for an economy with a favourable policy, we have, as a rule, two possible sets of measures. The first step is to create an environment for all, it is said, for the economy as a whole, a friendly environment, for example, that taxes are being reduced, administratively and bureaucraticly the country is becoming burdensome, and therefore a whole set of measures is linked to the labour market associated with it, and so on. Thus, an economic environment is created that is favourable to the development of economic projects and the development of the economy in general. But there can be a different approach to getting through state intervention - that is, we have little money, no calls, and through state intervention, money is allocated to those whom the state thinks are worthy of incentives, but not to others. And if I understand correctly, the Government has decided not to promote the entrepreneurial environment in a way that would reduce taxes, debarctify the country, and has decided more that the European funds available will be spent more intensively on operational programmes, which, by the way, are negotiated some four years ago. Part of this budget money is, in fact, already distributed, as a result of decisions already made that go hand in hand with money because it has been made in the past. By the way, the complete tourist infrastructure, which was in 2010 and 2011, was actually allusioned in 2008 and something else in 2007. What's good and what's wrong. There is no good in this, but each of these approaches has a bad and good side. That's why it's bad to rely on just one. And now the government here is talking about the powerful millions he's dedicated to entrepreneurship. And where do these powerful millions come from? This is, in fact, the information on the call made by the Ministry of Economy through the implementing institute for the promotion of the economy or for economic investment projects. This was, for example, a 15 million-euro split. The only criteria for this invitation to tender were the order of the applications. And it happened that 220 applications came in and 50 first ones were solved, everything else wasn't, and yet they haven't been hoping to issue these negative conclusions. Where is the assessment of what is a successful, innovative, technologically completed project? The only criterion was the order of these roles. These are, in fact, data on this invitation to tender, which has not yet been infamously completed, but has been quite publicly criticised - yet another demention by the Ministry of Economy or others in this regard. I would like to say that these tendering measures, for the first time, if they are not really well-targeted, are difficult to achieve; secondly, they cause a lot of red tape both on the side of the country and on the side of businesses. And thirdly, one can never get rid of the feeling that they are biased or even by some other criterion such as the substantive criterion assigned. I would therefore like to say that the whole allocation of European funds for the purpose of promoting economic development is twice as much a question. The first big question is whether, despite all the problems you have by drawing on European funds at all, you will "trust" and draw on this money. Secondly, the effectiveness of this divided money that should be shown is a big question if, in the future, such calls as the one I mentioned can be a little promising from this effectiveness. Now, on another field that I have initially highlighted, and I have not yet received one answer, and I believe that Mrs Kamnareva is listening from the government room and will answer these questions. It's taxes. Indeed, as I have already mentioned, this year the government has increased spending at the annual level by about 300 million euros this year by so much more. This is said to have been the first serious blow not only to people but also to the economy, as this has increased the cost of living for people and the cost of operating for economic operators. Once again, EUR 300 million is a poor percentage of gross domestic product. That's the first thing. The other thing is, you predict or don't predict - in the second reading, the amended Tax Law on Motor Vehicles, which raises taxes again, under the cover of some ecological orientation, will practically impress the entire middle class buying cars of the lower middle class. Motor bikes will also be irritable. Third time. I asked and again ask the Ministry of Finance, this is a discussion on the 2010 budget. In the 2010 budget, the government provides for around €121 million in revenue for environmental pollution benefits with CO2 emissions. 121 million more revenue on the revenue side, from the current 30 to 151 million in 2010. I ask, which services, which goods, then what will be specifically reflected in Slovenia at the expense of the introduction or at the expense of a drastic increase in this duty? Is this going to be an impoverishment of the fuel oil as the so-called old energy that pollutes the environment with CO2 or is there anything else in the back? Explain to the people! So you anticipate 120 million more revenue from this title, this needs to be collected. Where are you going to pick up who you're going to pick up? If they are taxed, I don't know any luxury means of transport or whatever - say so; if the planes are taxed - say so; if the fuel oil is taxed - say if anything else is taxed - tell them that the economic operators will know what is coming next year. And not just economic operators, of course people. You are also predicting through discussions a rise in certain other benefits, this is what is called a contribution to renewable resources and a contribution to the efficient use of energy. I know roughly where it aims to contribute to renewable resources. This goal is to raise this contribution, which each of us pays at the rate when we pay electricity. This contribution raises dedicated money for renewable resources. I know that investment in renewable resources is more than that money, and I know that this contribution will have to be raised. Tell me how much you're gonna lift it for and how much it's gonna cause or what the consequences are going to be for the ticket. And one more thing. If you intend to raise the price of heating oil through the environmental pollution tax with CO2 emissions, you should automatically know that many households will switch to electricity heating, because this will probably be a cheaper way of heating than with heating oil, given the energy value and costs, especially since we also have a lower tariff on electricity. And as a result, I ask you whether this is sustainable and normal, that this energy, which is twice directly produced and is the highest production cost in it, is also the optimal one, whether you intend to raise the price of electricity and again - for how much. That's the question about this document that's going to hit people's pockets quite a bit. With the budget documents, the government foresees something else - that this pocket will be a little bit more shallow, or cheaper, wallet - where? Method of coordination of pensions and social transfers. Out of agreement with the social partners! Why, of course, because there are practically no social partners in this, they are representative. Once again a rhetorical question - with whom did the Government coordinate when it froze the pensioners for half the pension growth for the future, in 2010 and beyond. Who did she get along with?Oh, my God! What representative group of pensioners?Oh, my God! With whom, except for coalition parties. You were the only ones they were with. That is, if it is a social dialogue of the government to harmonise itself, then God help us. And with whom is the government, with which the social transfer recipients' association - I am talking about children's allowances, about a whole bunch of others - aligned the government when it reduced the coordination of these social transfers. And then, because I can see that such knowledge of this social dialogue among coalition partners, I am also not surprised by the position of a lady who earlier said that pensions are social transfers. Yes, for God's sake! Pensions are the money paid to those beneficiaries on the basis of pension and disability insurance, which is earned money, spent money and this is not a social transfer. It is true, however, that there is a number of expenditure from the PPIZ cash register, including one that has nothing to do with the working age, i.e. the savings in insurance money. That's true. Here I welcome the intentions you are making to follow your pension reform in order to use this PSIZ or pension fund of all expenses which have nothing to do with insurance. There's a lot of them. And put that on the ground and let the country actually cover it. Some of the questions I have mentioned have already been raised in the opening speech when I spoke on behalf of the Group of Members, and unfortunately I have not received any answer. The Secretary of State here has shown us that the deficit of the public sector or the deficit of the wider country, as well as the budget deficit, is nothing terrible, that we are 10th place within the European Union and that we will already be what. I don't know. I think that the deficit is only one part of this story, the deficit is terrible and will amount to more than €3.5 billion in two years, or more than 10% of gross domestic product. 3.5 billion is about 10% of gross domestic product, and we will spend more on budget expenditure than we will generate. This is an alarm for me in public finances and far from being able to swing without a care. But it is true that for a government that has no ambition of some long-term view, it is probably the goal, we will be by the year, I don't know, 2012. That's right. We'll do it. Indeed, the place in which this country is indebted is also largely due to the low public debt which the Government inherited. The area is inherited from about 22% to 60%, which is large, approximately 40% is space. And if someone thinks that Slovenians don't care how fast they get from that 22% to 60% and say we're good, that it's no problem, he's wrong. This public debt will have to be paid once, and it will only be paid for by an economy whose creativity or conditions of business will be few, at least when we look at the opposition's rejected proposals in this area. Many questions, few answers, of course, I did not expect as much as I would say, ignorance from some coalition Members who spoke about it, reversed numbers and were in a situation in which we were carefree and praised a document that is probably unique in the history of Slovenia. So much bad data and so many bad numbers, we probably won't be able to wait. It will be very interesting to monitor the implementation of this budget. I am sure that the numbers in the implementation of this budget will be quite different than those now written.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We'll give the word "magic" first. Borutu Sajovic - will not - then Dr. Patrick Vlačič and Irma Pavlinič Krebs. Dr. Patrick Wlačič, did you answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you, President. Member Visiak would reply only on excise duties, in the part concerning the economy, saying that Slovenia is one of the three most popular points in Europe for tanking truck fuel precisely because of the favourable excise system. According to the fuel vendors with whom I spoke, Slovenia has become one of the three most popular tank points with an effective fuel system and fuel recovery system for road freight carriers. So, at least as far as the economy is concerned, this observation of yours is not true, because the practical state completely renounces excise duty.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word is given by Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Just an answer I can give you. You asked whether the Government was also engaged in social dialogue with representatives of pensioners. I attended the meeting myself, attended by the President of the Government, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Gaspari and representatives of the Association of Pensioners of Slovenia and all the bodies of this respected society. We wanted to argue, as did the public sector unions, the macroeconomic situation, the problems in public sector wage policy. That is why I was there, and I can tell you that in a multi-hour discussion, this dialogue, which we have had with them, has brought them to the very grave situation in the area of public finances. The issue of consent is, of course, another question, but the obvious that there was no social dialogue with the representatives of pensioners, I have to deny it because I have attended it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u99	Please, mag. Andrej Vizjak, the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u100	Just for a little while. You may have had a conversation and presented a vision to society, but social dialogue is probably being conducted between representatives of one party and the other. Is the Society or the Association of Retired Associations a representative association of pensioners in this country? If it isn't, then why didn't you also, like, invite our client's seniors and seniors to this debate? They also have an association of pensioners or those who have similar interests and advocate for the rights of pensioners and the elderly. Or similar associations, any other in this country? Why just one? And you declared those to be representative. I just want to stress that this measure was actually made beyond the harmonisation of the social partners. At least here we can unify. Out of sync. And I have also made it easier for you to probably do that, because even the social partner, at least as far as representativeness is concerned, is not in this area. I made that easy for you, too. And I don't know what you're replicating it for, but I only said that because it's the wrong line. Wrong indication that this intervention law was in line with the social partners. It can be coordinated, but it's not coordinated.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u102	Thank you. First, let me give the gentle sex priority because it's appropriate. Both government representatives have proved that with their charm and rhetoric, they are directly brilliant realists of the only government policy that we can recognize as consistently throughout this period, this is a shift from the economic performance of the government to the irrelevant things when it comes to public attention. And if I respond first to Mrs. Kamnareva, who said we didn't listen. We did very well, and she certainly knows very well that we talked about the same things, only that she was talking about aggregate indicators, about the absolute values of these aggregate indicators, and I was talking about relative shifts, about trends. This is true of the decline or growth of individual economic indicators. The first part, that is, the one Mrs Kamnareva was talking about, as a summary indicator, is essentially about some absolute economic performance of an individual country over a certain period of time. In Slovenia, for example, from independence to today, because it contains essentially growth or decline, faster, weaker growth throughout this period. And this is some point in this space that we can then compare with neighbouring countries. He's talking about absolute value, and I've been talking about the last year and the changes in these indicators, whether it was faster growth or a faster fall. This, however, speaks of the success or failure of an individual government. And we were both telling the truth, and we were both right. It is interesting, however, that in these two of our data, which we have illuminated from our point of view, in fact, not in some way is the whole point of the general part of the budget combined in one sentence. What we have, what we operate on. We have obviously a good country, with a lot of very successful economists, especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and obviously we have a very bad government over the last year. That's what the indicators tell you very clearly. Together, if we add them together, they talk about a good country, with many successful individuals, a capable economy and a bad government in the last year. That's all and that's the starting point for this budget. Second. When Mrs. Krebs cited the Constitutional Court. I mentioned those two exceptions. That is to say, when most of the talk about saving even with coffee and we read about it in women's magazines, the Government raised some of its own employees by 5 pay grade, the ones she had set up before, for 5 pay grade of their starting salary. Where's the savings here? Apparently, this was one group that was an exception. And then the same way I talked about judges' salaries, and she turned it around. All I said was what happened. That's a fact. And then she turned it over to the Constitutional Court's judgment. Yes, we have, but, Mrs Krebs, we talked about this at the time. The Constitutional Court has not ruled that this must be done precisely in this way. The way in which the Constitutional Court ruled was the sovereign decision of your Government, which merely reflected your government's policy in this area, and thus increased the starting salary for some, in particular, judges of beginners by 7 grades. By the way, the Constitutional Court's decision would also have been implemented by the amendment proposed by the SDS, and you rejected it, and this amendment also allowed for an increase in basic wages in order to satisfy the Constitutional Court's decision and at the same time left enough room to promote the abolition of judicial arrears, which is a fundamental problem of Slovenian justice. But that's what you turned down. And just for the end, Mr. Wlachic, there will be no misunderstanding. Although he pointed out that individual projects in the field of regulation of regional or state roads will be fully dealt with in full later times on the basis of relevant acts, which will now be adopted in about half a year. If I can get a summary of his message. Personally, I think it's good for things to be made transparent. However, I would like to point out that the projects I mentioned earlier are not some new projects. These are projects that have already been implemented, which have been implemented for two years and have already been fully foreseen in the budgets for the past period and you have had them fully planned for funding in the last two or three years. And now all of a sudden, it's all over. And it's not just about people's security, although I personally think it's a value that comes first. However, it is necessary to know that one road, which means a link between the motorway and the airport, which is of strategic importance, the development project of strategic importance for Slovenia is not so defined in the basic acts of this country, and therefore the regulation of infrastructure for this development project is of strategic importance and certainly also a strategic development project. The second is the road, which represents one small part of the road, which connects Slovenia and Austria in fact, and also all the municipalities in this area with the municipality of Kranj and is therefore of regional and even interstate importance. And in this case it is also a strategic development project, but of course with a note that there is primary security. Security, as I say, is firmly convinced that the value that must be in all our decisions is first.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss the general part of the supplementary draft budget? Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. I would only ask that any of the government representatives comment on Patrio's issues, that is to say what happens to projects that are included both in the 2009 budget and in the 2010 and 2011 budget. The Government or the Secretary-General of the Government and also the Government have already announced at the beginning of the mandate that this project will be terminated if there is only a shadow of doubt that some acts of corruption have occurred, and we see that nothing is happening in this area, despite all these great stories involving some important representatives of the Government, the current government, for example, the Secretary-General had much to comment on in this area, the Government bought a certain quota of these vehicles this year, and also further for 2010 and 2011 this item in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. That's one question. And even though this is the third time I have debated this subject, we have not yet received this answer in the National Assembly. It is obvious, however, that some coalition members have also discussed this subject very intensively and pointed to some in this National Assembly. I would very much like a concrete answer. Second thing. We have introduced a system law on railways, on the development of the railway network. Given that the Minister of Transport is here, I am interested in the Government's position on the project, on the development of the railway network and also on the specific one, I can tell him what the SDS Group's system proposal in this area, which foresees a thorough renewal of the rail network between 2012 and 2025. Something is already included in this budget. We have also tabled an amendment for this budget, which is on a certain segment of some matters, and in particular the law that has been tabled regulates these matters systematically. And if the Government supports this law, there will also be a need for an appropriate response in the NRPs in the proposal for national development projects from 2010 to 2014 or 2015, such as this debt table. At least part of that should be wrapped up there. And a general comment. Here we talk a lot about what exceptional opportunities or benefits the previous government has had because it was fortunate to have worked at a time of favourable economic growth. All European governments had the opportunity to do so. All European governments in the previous mandate have worked during a period of high economic growth and favourable conditions. However, not all of them had high economic growth. Not all had at least 3% higher economic growth than the EU average. Even now, when the recession period is different, not all countries are equally affected and have not all the same decline in economic growth, but they are all operating in roughly the same circumstances. We cannot claim here that you have been in better circumstances before, now we are in worse circumstances. Those of us who used to have a government that we formerly ran this country have indeed worked in better circumstances, but we have also made an extremely good use of these circumstances, these opportunities offered by economic growth. Now that the Prime Minister of the Government has said a few months ago, I think it was at the first balance of the budget, that the crisis is also an opportunity, and I note that all European countries, all governments have not taken the same advantage of the crisis as opportunities. We didn't have the right response. And our government certainly has not reacted in such a way that this situation, which has hit all European countries, would affect Slovenia less negatively than the other European countries. She's had twice as much influence. I don't know whether it's because the government is doing well or because the government is not responding properly in this area. Some correct answer is needed here. I'm sure we're dealing with a lot of moves here that are diametrically contradictory if I use the terminology of our President of the National Assembly. On the one hand, there is talk of saving, coffee, reducing salaries for officials, including four percent or one pay grade for civil servants. On the other hand, we saw a list of about 25 officials in the cabinets of the ministries who had advanced for five payment classes. If we saved 90 payment classes here, on the other hand, the Government lost 125 payment classes by its own measure. They say one thing, straight in diameter the opposite. Similarly, there are many other measures. Even in these specific departments, the ministries represented here by ministers, that is probably what happened. If anyone suspects, I'll go look for files, and we'll read it. However, the honourable President of the National Assembly would like to draw attention to another matter. We have before us the most important act of this country this year. This is the 2010 budget. Tomorrow we will have the most important act of this country for next year. This will be the 2011 budget. And the government, which has 17 ministers, is failing at best to bring together more than 3 ministers for this meeting. At best, there are now three ministers here, there were two before, one before, and so on. This also shows the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the act it proposes to assess the importance of this act for that country. I think that we speak and we can judge that this government is not properly balanced in relation to this act, to the budget and also to the National Assembly which adopts this act, and that the Government's attitude towards this act is inadequate. And we may then be surprised that sometimes even some debates are critical. I think that you, as President of the National Assembly, should interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly on your own and call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure that you are properly involved in the consideration of such an important point as the 2010 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This option is also given by the Rules of Procedure. Since the government is represented, there you wrote a list of who represents the government, there are all ministers and also all secretaries of state, and here we have three ministers and one secretary of state. However, we are talking about different areas, all areas, of all the budgets of individual departments in this country. But here are three who can only segmentally cover their area, only segmentally. Those with the general mandate to represent the budget in the National Assembly, with the exception of the Minister of Finance in the introduction, were not present today. I think that says everything about the relationship between the coalition and the budget, about the relationship between the coalition and the National Assembly. Such conduct, respected President, should be interrupted sooner rather than later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Just a comment about what was said in the end. The Prime Minister is absent, abroad. All the ministers and ministers were invited. Every minister and minister who is here must be counted as a representative of the Government, who must be able to defend the budget in full. From this point of view, there is no reason for the meeting of the National Assembly to be suspended due to a lack of ministers. You want procedural? Please, Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u106	Thank you, Madam President. The budget shall be drawn up in such a way that each ministry is represented by its own chapter. It's not programmed to be able to talk about all the programs here, but it's done through the departments. And here we have representatives of the Department of Public Administration, for transport, for culture, for justice, and now the Secretary of State for Finance has joined us. The other resources that should respond here today are actually very detailed, such as, say, higher education, Slovenians around the world, foreign affairs, internal affairs, defence and so on, there is no one here. And it's no wonder I've been waiting three hours for an answer to what's going on with the acquisition of Patria armories, what's going on in this area. We don't get the right answers. And I think that the meeting should be suspended until a relevant interlocutor arrives and there is a concrete position that we Members will know what this is about. Now everyone is waiting for this time available for discussion to be over. Three-quarters of the questions will not be answered because there are no government ministers here. And then we'll all be happy that the debate is over. The coalition has apparently already lost its will because, with the exception of the three Members, the largest coalition party and one or two representatives of the other parties are no longer there. [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u107	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u108	Dear colleague Kontic, thank you for this distraction and for that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u109	No Controversies [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u110	vernacular [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u111	I warn and maintain order in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u112	We in our parliamentary group will see to it that we will be the ones to discuss here and also follow the debate. You, too, will see to it that there is nothing more than an inappropriate discussion. I propose, Madam President, that if I do not now have the appropriate answers to the question of Patriye, we should stop and ensure that an appropriate interlocutor is given the correct or appropriate answers to this question. The question is important, the topic opens, and this morning some coalition Members, who have had a very large number of comments on this subject, now that we are asking what is not the answer in this area, have opened it up. And I suggest we stop this session until we have an answer to what's going on with this Patrio. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u113	Your Honor, Mr. Tanko! First of all, as I said, the government representatives are here, everyone has been invited, every minister can talk about the budget in its entirety, not just about his work. Some of them did. Representatives of the Government, ministers and state secretaries who receive questions in this debate are not obliged to answer this question if they do not intend to do so. With regard to Patrie, I would say that this question has been raised, at least in my opinion, in the context of the budgetary debate on Patria and the budget, quite frankly, I believe that this does not satisfy you, and the competent Secretary of State is here and I think he will answer. Whether this answer pleases you or not, I don't know. All the conditions for normal operation and the course of the session are here, so I will now give the floor to Dr Patrick Vlačič to answer the question or comment that came from the opposition types.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u114	Thank you, President. I would just like to say to honourable Member Tank that for 2010 and 2011, we have given a little less than 300 for 2010 and a little more than 300 million for 2011 for rail infrastructure, which is significantly more than in previous budgets. This is about 0.8% of the gross social product of the Republic of Slovenia, which I believe is still too small, but significantly more than in previous times, almost three times as much as in previous times because the index was about 0.3% of the gross social product. This is how we follow the decision to invest in rail infrastructure and I think the numbers speak for themselves in this regard. Where we have a legacy of state spatial plans, we are moving things forward where there is no such thing, and we are leaving the reasons, because that is not relevant, we are speeding it up. We will send as the Government regulation to the National Assembly, which will improve or else, I will say, accelerate the placement of line infrastructure facilities in space. In this way, we will be able to follow even more closely what you have proposed, in fact, faster construction of railway infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Irma Pavlinič Krebs, then Maja Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Tanko, in the morning part of the debate, you said or said that the intervention law, you have challenged its acceptability to the social groups and its content. As regards the content of the intervention law concerning the salaries of public servants, in this work with the social partners, Mr Tanko, is coordinated. It is true that there is no intervention law concerning public servants of great agreement in society, as you have said. You know why he can't have it. The salary reform, which was completed in 2008 after four years of coordination in social dialogue, Mr Tanko, was only completed in 2008. Now, I'd like to ask you, given your thesis, which you've put out in the afternoon work. It is true that all governments were active during the period of economic growth in 2008. It's yours, too. And you say that you have made an extremely good use of this economic growth. I wonder why, then, after four years of coordination with the public sector unions, when you signed an agreement on wage harmonisation in the public sector, you did not eliminate these wage imbalances in 2008. It was economic growth, the resources in the budget should be provided, half of these funds, as far as has been negotiated, were actually saved by public servants in these years by cancelling coordination and by inflation up to half. Why, then, was not wage reform not only promised in 2008 but also realised. On the basis of the agreement, you promised implementation in 2009 and definitively, irrespective of the macroeconomic situation, in 2010. However, it is worth 500 million euros and wage reform has fallen into crisis. And I just want to say that all of us who at some point in the Slovenian space represent power must also be at some point self-critical. We should also recognise that the heritage in the individual areas you gave us at the beginning of the current government's term of office was problematic at some points. And when, on the other hand, you see a social dialogue that was finally successful both with public servants and with coordination with judges and even with sustainable public finances, I feel that I do not really know what you are reading to this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word is Majda Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u118	Of course, I also wonder, at the part where you, Mr Tanko, ask yourself about your fundamental dilemma, if it was so much easier to work at a time of great economic growth, why this does not continue now. If this government, which has worked really well under better conditions, yours, did work so well, then the Ministry of Culture would not have seen the decline in the share of cultural resources in the light of GDP and the overall proportion within the budget that did not stop, but it has deepened and, interestingly, started to rise only at the time when the crisis situation occurred and when everyone was still more difficult for us. It's only now that this unbridled drop in cultural resources has stopped. And if, in fact, the government that has left us this legacy and framed us to a large extent would do so well, we would not be confronted every day with a report by the Court of Auditors that speaks of the unintended use of funds and spending in the previous period, even in 2008. If I were actually doing so well, then I would be able to make use of the European resources that we have increased access to and to which we should be able to act and draw them out. On the contrary, even here, the Court of Auditors says that not only did she not know how to use them, but those things she used are now in danger of being returned because she did not seek and satisfy the goals she had committed herself to when she applied for them. And if I were actually so successful, I could continue to talk about protecting Plečnik's heritage, not alienating the national symbol of national importance and all state property, which is undoubtedly true for the island of Blejski. If I were so successful, I wouldn't be doing the debt in Lipica that we're now dealing with. And not only with debts, not only with this kind of financial hole, but also with poisoning, let's say, cultural heritage, which is alive there, is called horses, and wouldn't invest in golf courses, but into something else. If I had been so successful, the Ministry of Culture would now not have met with the boys at the opera and with the endless pit in which the funds go down because they were not properly planned at the very beginning. This place needs to be real. There is no doubt that some sand must be removed from your eyes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss it in the context of the general work? Please, Mr. Krek, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have already answered the honourable Member, Mr Tank, about an hour ago, and if you please, I would like to repeat the answer to the question he raised regarding the continuation of the entire fate of the Patrio project. As I have already said, we are talking about the establishment of a medium-term battalion fighting group as one of the key capacities of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The contract was made up of 135 vehicles worth EUR 278 million. We took the first vehicles this year, 13 vehicles worth about 30 million euros. For 2010 and 2011, vehicles are included in the financial plan under the heading Core Development Programmes. Legally, the basic development programmes should be up to €105 million. The amount in 2010 is €45 million, the amount for 2011 is €30 million, part of which is also earmarked for medium-wheeled armoured vehicles. The Ministry of Defence is preparing the Government's starting points for further negotiations with the contract partner to reduce the number of vehicles, as for the new objectives of the Slovenian Armed Forces, it no longer needs 135 vehicles to change the upgrade, since the upgrade currently on the vehicle is not the one planned in 2005 and needs an upgrade that will provide greater fighting power and thus better protection of the Slovenian military, should extend the delivery deadlines according to available financial resources and rationalise or reduce the total value of the contract in accordance with the rationalisation of the national budget. The contract is currently in force. If corruption is proven, then the contract will be null and void. If we are able to negotiate a reduced number of vehicles, then we will continue the contract in the event of unproven corruption, but there are still different options. So much for Mr. Tanko right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u122	I have a procedural, distinguished president.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u123	Please, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u124	I would ask Mrs Pavlinič if, by chance, he knew when the negotiations on wage reform had been concluded. Because he's asking me why we didn't do it in 2008. The negotiations were probably concluded in 2008, once in the summer. The payment system is expected to be in place in September 2008. I think it would be right for you to take over the government at the end of 2008 so that you can also rebalance certain things. But there was a situation, and you changed those things. The government, which was no longer given a mandate at the elections, could no longer regulate this with a balance since that transitional period after the elections was over, you know, from September onwards, when it is no longer possible for the government to implement certain concrete measures. But yours could, because she was given a mandate on November 21st, and we could do it with a balance. Mrs Shirca, we discussed the final bill last week. We could join the debate at that time. You have rejected the closing account [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u125	Dear colleague Tanko [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u126	Of course, that's procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u127	No, it's not. Procedural questions or proposals shall be addressed strictly to the President-in-Office, but not to the President-in-Office. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u128	I'll finish. I'll finish the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u129	You've got a minute and a half outside your task force. Please conclude, because these are not procedural proposals which must be addressed to the President or the President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u130	I think that somehow the President of the National Assembly is not tempted to jump into the floor by the Members who are discussing in the context of what has been said and procedurally. It is also difficult to open a final account debate now. However, you will have every opportunity, since the final account has been rejected, to correct the final account. There are also issues concerning EU funds. Your government has done nothing in this area either. And while we are already at Plečnik's heritage, I would like to point out that the stadium is not as protected as it should be, even Plečnik's markets are not protected as they should be, and you have signed things to bring these matters down. And what might have been passed on to someone else may have survived. That's the question if it will. I don't think so. As far as Patricia is concerned, I asked why the contract has not been terminated, as some suspicions about these acts continue to arise. What kind of units you're going to form is of secondary importance. But why is it that the contract is not terminated if the suspicions of corruption continue to arise? I think if you promised, you'd probably have to do it, not keep doing it. And, Mrs. Shirca, one last thing. We're waiting for the movies. 20 of them were promised this year, and you didn't realize them. And they probably won't be in the next budget either, in the next financial year. Mr President, I propose that you direct the debate of ministers to answer, not to ask questions. They're here to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Tanko, first of all, I must repeat, the procedural proposals are addressed to the President-in-Office, not to the Minister or Minister and Secretary of State and Secretary-General of Parliament or anything else. As regards the questions they have asked the ministers in the Chamber, they may or may not answer them. You must be aware that these are the general rules under which our meeting takes place, and there is no reason for us to use procedural time to do so. True, the President of the National Assembly does not have to jump to the floor, but sometimes there is no other option than to draw attention to the Rules of Procedure. Anybody else want to discuss this? Irma Pavlinič Krebs and then Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, that was a hoax. If you consider that you have made good use of the circumstances of high economic growth, it was not my question, my concern that the elimination of wage imbalances should take place in August 2008 as a whole, but not one meal in August 2008, the next one in January 2009, and the next one in 2010 and the next one in late 2010, and agree that regardless of the macroeconomic situation, public servants will receive an increase in their pay grade no later than 2010. I mean, if we were to be careful, we'd be paying off the wage imbalances in the year when it was a conjuncture, there was no question, it was my answer. However, that the current government, which took up the 21st November mandate, could not stop the social dialogue with the intervention law of wage reform, but you know exactly as I know, which is why wage growth in the public sector in the crisis year 2010 is still 6% due to the January elimination of imbalances despite the agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u133	Thank you very much. You have a chance to discuss this. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, the previous government has agreed with the social partners on the level of coordination and on the method of coordination, for all the dynamics of coordination. At the time of the submission of the budget, this government did not do so, has tabled an uncoordinated budget on this item, has tabled an intervention law to cover the EUR 500 million hole and has only begun to negotiate with the partners in the process. And there was coordination both with the social partners, with the unions and those who then coordinated the pension work. Later. That is why you have also replaced the intervention law already after the working body has dealt with the complex budget with all the amendments, and you have replaced the law only after you have tabled a supplementary draft budget into the National Assembly, not before. The procedure was fundamentally different and was not agreed upon. Now he wasn't in that part, but he was forced to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u135	Thank you very much. There's a mag in the word. Helena Kamnar, then Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it would be right to explain once again how the draft budget was tabled in the National Assembly and in what points and how it was aligned with the social partners. The draft budget contained policies on wages, policies on the valorisation of pensions and the valorisation of social transfers. The government has set itself the objective that all revenue paid from public treasury will receive the same treatment as for coordination in the following year. Such a proposal was first coordinated with the unions in the context of the social wage dialogue and later in the Social-Economic Council, where it presented the draft budget. In the course of this debate, the social partners involved in this debate were explained that the draft budget would go to the National Assembly in such a way that an intervention law would be adopted, which had stopped or prevented the coordination of all revenue from public finances, with the exception of pensions already recorded in the intervention law, should be aligned with half the growth under the law. At the same time, however, it was explained that when social dialogue is over, the Government will amend the intervention law and adapt it to what will be agreed with the social partners. In this respect, the dialogue with the social partners on wage valorisation continued. When the dialogue was concluded, it pursued the same objective as it had in the introductions, meaning to treat all revenue from public cash registers in the same way and to write the intervention law in a manner consistent with the public sector wage unions. This treatment was followed by other receipts from public cash registers. That's why she changed the intervention law, and we'll be considering such a law tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everyone. There is again a lot of talk in this debate about heritage and what the former government has left. When a man listens to this, he feels that the previous government should leave some 10 billion plus so that these current ones can burn him and then brag about it. Wrong world! The world is wrong because, by all elements and by all economic indicators, and this is also recognised by macroeconomicists, it is clear that the previous government has benefited from a period of favourable economic circumstances to the greatest extent possible. In these debates, there are also persistent allegations that the current government has not been aware of what it is taking on. Here I have a report on the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia from 2004 to 2008. Not only in this published form on slightly less than 400 pages per ministry, by element, with all economic indicators, even in CD form. There's an inheritance written in here. At the end of this year, everything, including what you deny all the time, is that the public debt in 2008 amounted to 21.5% of gross domestic product, that it will already be 32.5% of gross domestic product by the end of this year and that it will increase to almost 50% of gross domestic product in the next two years. Here's a table that beautifully shows how much of this public debt is due by cca. 27.2% dropped to 21.5%. Not to mention the reduction in the budget deficit, which was eliminated in 2007 and 2008 and is now close to €8 billion. The real basis for 2010 is already eight hundred million euro minus, which means that over 5% of GDP or far above what was adopted in the Stability Pact under the Maastricht criteria, to which Slovenia has also committed. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed an amendment that would reduce this framework to an acceptable 3% and reduce spending by eight hundred million euros. It was obvious that this amendment could not be processed or implemented. Of course, not in the way that the budget is now prepared for 2010, but it could be implemented if the Government were to take seriously the situation at the time they were coming, and if it had accepted the offer proposed by the SDS to work together to find a solution to the difficult economic problems, and if it had taken the measures proposed in a timely manner, they had all been rejected. I am not saying that these measures were the only ones to be saved, but they were the basis or framework for discussion, they were the basis on which consensus should be sought, and in these circumstances, when the public was prepared for change, this was in the spring of this year, to make the basis for changes or for breakthroughs in 2010 and 2011. What am I talking about? I am talking about structural shifts in public spending, about the need to bind public spending to a percentage of what has been created, is the percentage of gross domestic product and to adhere strictly to these constraints. This, of course, cannot be achieved without adequate political consensus and cannot be achieved without the appropriate consent of the social partners. And that's what you should be trying to do. Since this was not the case, today we are witnessing a very bad scenario for 2010 and for 2011. Some figures have already been mentioned in the framework of 2010. But let me do it again. This deficit, recorded at almost €2 billion this year, will also be repeated in 2010, without any indication that any measures will be taken to accelerate economic growth. What is now in the memorandum and what is now in the forecast is a very bad scenario and is talking about that Slovenia itself will be in breach of the rule it set itself in 2005 to grow at least 3% more than our average European Union, which it has started to do by 2009, so it should now fall at least 2 times slower in this period and, following this logic, it should re-establish this leap in 2010. It should be borne in mind that Prime Minister Pahor's presentation of the first budget rebalancing for 2009 in the National Assembly was based on the fact that Slovenia will record 0.6 positive percentage economic growth this year. That's what the Prime Minister said here when we were taking the rebalancing. But it is true that on that day, there was an estimate of Umar, which spoke of a 4.5% drop, the balance was, nevertheless, accepted at the assumption plus 0.6, and consumption was happily continued until mid-summer, when we were adopting the second balance. Today's forecast is almost minus 8 for 2009. Nor is this forecast covered by the 2010 Memorandum, which means that what we are taking now also appears not to be realized or that these figures are not real. However, consumption, with some rare exceptions, is increasing in 2010. And when we heard that virtually none of the ministers were dissatisfied with the budget, this is a worrying situation. Remember years ago, when there were other situations, no one was satisfied with the budget, and now everyone is satisfied. It is said that the great problem is that this part, which should be limited in these circumstances, has not been limited. In this regard, it is also symptomatic that statistics and official data show that some of the employees in the public administration have increased this year and have not decreased, with employment declining by around 30 to 35,000 people in the economy. It is difficult to discuss seriously with regard to these numbers that we have on the table today. It is also difficult to support the fact that, at a time when all countries are seeking to lower their tax burdens and also to accelerate economic growth, to accept this budget increasing taxes on two essential segments - the environmental part where I fear that one part of this is already covered by this tax on motor vehicles, which we have recently considered, and that this part will mainly cover the smallest consumers. If the oil and oil price forecast is to be realised, that is exactly what this means. People can't restructure quickly. They need to take appropriate measures to help them move on in a different way and drive things in a stimulating way, at the same time as a gradual change in energy price policy. And on the other hand, real estate taxes, which unfortunately do not satisfy those forecasts that say that these burdens for most people will be about the same as they are today, because we see that there are about six times more inflows at the annual level under this heading, that is €180 million more. The fact that someone who lives on the Coast who meets their own housing needs will pay six to eight times as much tax as someone who lives in Celje is unacceptable. Those who live in areas that are more affordable for such or other reasons are not to blame for living there. And those who live in their properties cannot, because they are on a fixed position, pay only for this reason so much more tax. This is not fair and wrong, but obviously the concept envisaged in this area is so. There was also a lot of talk about how the former government could not run various public institutions, businesses and so on. I have to say, it would be hard to share such an assessment. I can share an assessment that it can always be better managed. I can agree with that. Never has any management been the most optimal. There's always something else you can do to make it even more optimal. But if this management hadn't been good, I wouldn't have been able to agree. What is the current management like? Look, it's been falcon for a year. I'm just saying, as an example. It's not that small at all. The 2 million-dollar circus blew up according to the most minimalist version. The rent that this plane made was $125.000 a month. It is said that on the sole account of the rent that was not realised, a million and a half exploded. Not to mention all the costs they were monitoring before this plane landed in Slovenia. There was no record of any operationality in this. It has been known since last year, I think November, that this Treaty will end in February and I think it would be normal for these activities to be carried out in an appropriate manner in order to resolve such a problem. Then there was a talk about how some people can rule, and others can't. And let me give you an example of the film fund. As far as I can tell, the Court of Auditors' opinion on business is negative. The President of the Council has been in the mandate of the previous Government for quite some time and is now the President of the Council of the Party of Zares. Whether it was good or not, this will have to be assessed by the competent minister. In any case, it is also the part that speaks of the fact that the most optimal solutions have not been drawn in order to properly manage those entities which, in one way or another, form part of the public sphere. I firmly believe that it is not the right direction to save only those who have the least and who are already on the social side. There was a lot of talk about how more will be covered in those who have the most. There are also many predictions as to how those who make the most of these enormous profits will fare. In public many words, in practice no such decisions. I must say that not only in this area, but practically in all areas, this gap between words and what is then going on in decision-making is reflected. There's talk, we're opening a announcement that was accompanied by a round of applause to shorten the hands of the craftsmen and the other one's work. It's not anywhere. And it's been repeated, repeatedly promised, none of it is. As far as the liquidity spasm is concerned. The area of European funds was one of those that could and was also one of the reserves for 2010. But in this way, as it is now in reading, and in this way, as things are now going on, I'm afraid it's not going to be exploited at maximum altitude. There's only one case he'll give. This year, the so-called fifth call for regional development was not published at EUR 202 million. There was no need for you not to be published. The funds are available, the municipalities are ready, even the previous minister has prepared this call to allow investment in those segments where it was not possible before. I'm talking about kindergarten protection and so on. A lot of problems would have been solved through these funds. Investment activity, multiple effects themselves, no invitation to tender would be accelerated. It's supposed to be June 30th, then 30th. 11. Now I hear he won't be here. So this is how that resource is available and used wisely, given that the previous government of 4 billion and a half has only tendered for a third, a billion and a half, three billion more is available here, I think it would be right for these funds to be operationalised to the maximum extent possible, in 2010 and 2011. These are the key years on which these things should be defined. Let me conclude by saying one word about what has been said today and needlessly problematic in this debate, but I have understood the Secretary of State very well. I'm talking about Patrie. He said that if corruption had been found in this contract, the contract would have been cancelled. The contract has not been cancelled, corruption has not been established, but today, as you can see, Slovenia has received "Slovenia's berglund". I only hope that this time the law enforcement authorities will do their part and that this "Slovenian berglund" for all slanders, flooding and lies will receive appropriate legal satisfaction, as in the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss the general part of the 2010 supplementary draft budget? Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted. A very interesting debate today, which borders on one at a time, I have also said on one of the committees that it is somehow as if some of us have now come from space or vice versa. There is some conflict of opinion, if we turn just a good year ago, the debate was completely different. But that's how it is. Even these discussions about how many, as some say, government teams are sitting here, and as far as I am concerned, I think if the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance is here, given that the budget is the responsibility of the budget, the preparation of the budget on the part of all ministries, but the Ministry of Finance is the one who then brings the matter together. I don't see any doubt here that anything would be wrong, but I think the presence by the ministries is more than enough, so we wouldn't have any comments here. However, it could be about this success over the past years, because there has been a great deal of this success, the failure of the government, there is no ambition now that this government has no relation to this act, because of the presence and so on. Somehow a man doesn't have words. But I just looked at the statistics. The most important economic indicators from 1992 to 2011 also show the percentage of the government deficit. Let me repeat this: in 2006 the government deficit was minus 1.3%. In 2007, when the situation was, as we say, repeatedly said, a period of fat cows and so on, there was no deficit, nor any surplus. For 2008, the deficit was minus 1.8%. So much for certain debates on public finances, on surpluses and deficits in past periods. The period of the recession of Slovenia and the European Union has ended in some way and is now a period, as we call it: a period of recovery. In the opinion of the European Commission, we have also discussed this several times, government measures, i.e. those governments, are appropriate to respond to the economic downturn, this economic downturn is not expressed only in the Republic of Slovenia, but in the whole European Union and the world, and I do not think that all the debates in all the negative connotations are necessary. According to the European Commission, anti-crisis measures are timely, targeted and partly temporary, but will need to be continued in 2010, as they have allowed the preservation of 20,000 jobs in 2009 regardless of the various discussions. I should like to reiterate my proposal for the 2010 budget, because I know that this has already been highlighted several times today, that the first budget drawn up by this government is based on positive economic growth for 2010 and is also prepared on the basis of a compromise, as we have repeatedly discussed on one side of the austerity measures, and whether it is right to start with coffee or not, somewhere to start is the best thing to start with. Furthermore, a developmental moment of the budget is needed, which I believe is also taken into account, as well as anti-crisis measures and what all of us who listen to us in the debates, and perhaps something has been extraordinary before, I would say that we have already had almost demagogous pre-election discussions on this, on our pensioners and on all those who are now on the verge of surviving towards ensuring social security for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, saving is based on social communication between the social partners and also entails a reduction in commitments in the 2010 budget of €400 million. The proposed savings referred to in the Law on Intervention Measures were necessary due to the economic crisis, to release funds for the implementation of anti-crisis measures and to implement development projects. The need for this saving has arisen because of the condition it left behind, whether we recognize it or not, or whether we do not want to hear it or not, some of it is also from the past period. We don't have anything to add to this. We don't even have to close our eyes. Of course, on the basis of salary reform and the increase in employment by more than 6 000 public sector employees, as this has dramatically increased the total volume of gross wage funds from cash public funding. This is the first government to start limiting public spending by introducing a fiscal rule that will freeze the integral part of the budget expenditure in 2010-2013 at the 2009 level. This will reduce the public financial deficit in the same way as some other European countries have done. On the basis of the fiscal rule, increasing economic growth will also reduce the public financial deficit from the past periods, which I have discussed earlier. According to the economic situation, the deficit in 2009 and 2010 is appropriate for counter-crisis and is within the average of the Member States of the European Union. Even in connection with some of the criticisms heard today, perhaps even well-intentioned remarks, they have come out as criticisms, from some of the opposition's colleagues, but I do not think they are right. The fact is that income without tax reform in 2010 would be higher by €1.6 billion. However, tax reform has burdened the economy and, to a lesser extent, the population. When we talked a few months ago about VAT return and so on, we also found that it was never the right time. During a period of high economic growth, when I feel that it would be easier to "screw" or even do this more easily, this has not been done, but this will be done with 1. 1. 2010 The preparation of the 2010 development budget confirms the change of thinking when preparing the budget, which is divided into 16 priorities, as we have already heard today. It does not take into account the allocation of budgetary money by ministries, and this budget also responds to questions which are the development priorities of the 2010 budget. It is focused on development, saving and social security. The 2010 and 2011 budgets do not yet take structural measures into account. That is why, not so long ago, the debate made a clear statement regarding the consideration or non-compliance with structural measures. Since these are subject to social communication, they demonstrate the seriousness of the implementation of the necessary measures. In the previous mandate, it would also be easier to implement these measures, but unfortunately they have not been implemented and today the criticism is high. The need to implement structural measures was also highlighted by the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund in the previous mandate. If they were implemented during a period of high economic growth, these measures could be milder. With each year of delay, we know that even more fundamental reforms need to be carried out. As a result, this government will have to make greater fiscal efforts in certainly more difficult times to ensure the sustainability of public finances. There is also some kind of conflict in the budget between the sustainability of public finances, the promotion of economic growth and the preservation of social security. However, the first task in development policy in addition to austerity measures is certainly social security. And I also assess that this government, when preparing the 2010 budget, now, at 2010, tomorrow at 2011, took all of these into account. I am also aware, as someone said before, that the budget can never be so good, so ideal that it could not be even better. However, I believe that, even in previous governments, not only the previous ones, but also the others, the debate was certainly similar and it was taking place in this direction. Certainly by the coalition in one direction, the opposition in a somewhat more critical direction, including in the debate on the "use" of European funds, even when I have listened to these debates recently as a member of the Committee on Transport or have read certain facts myself, including on the financial perspective 2007-2013, I regret that, even in the area of development axes related to transport infrastructure, that documentation has not been prepared more quickly and that this possibility and opportunity to exploit European funds to a greater extent has clearly not been possible in the past. Therefore, it is now more difficult for this government and, if I go into the field of transport, for sure work is so much harder, and even more so because of the times in which we live, when such a warning is given on the one hand by Pomurje, on the situation of workers' forgiveness and unemployment, there is an urgent need for assistance, on the other hand also in the White landscape, which I have also had the opportunity to hear many comments and opinions today, and I believe that, in connection with the 2010 budget, I also see an important "moment" that will take place in this National Assembly, so as soon as possible, to adopt additions and amendments to the Law on coherent and equitable regional development and also in this direction, we help all areas in the Republic of Slovenia that are most needed at a given time in the area of developmental "moments" and economic assistance. Indeed, even today I had the opportunity to hear a comment when the debate was also held in the case of one of the Belarusian companies, such as Danfoss, which has a mother company in Denmark and is said to be the second home of China. This is a worrying fact that not only the Republic of Slovenia and the economy in the Republic of Slovenia, but the whole of Europe, as well as at such moments and related to the developmental moments, as well as to some indications, but also in relation to the centres of excellence, we need to be right here and not only to see if it is just someone or some area, but we need to look globally, strategically for the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia. I myself will support the proposed budget for 2010 and 2011 and want to work in a cooperative way so that the Republic of Slovenia can in some way get out of these difficult economic conditions and times of crisis as quickly as possible and that our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia can also live in peace in the direction of peace, I think here in a way that they will not survive day to day in the care of how to survive their family members and themselves. Therefore, I believe that all the debates that lead in the direction, if it is - if it is - let us drive in such a way that it will be so and that we will carry out together, regardless of which party the support comes from or which one of the ministers comes from. And if perhaps anyone likes that we have the first government that has such a large number of ministers, I personally welcome it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u141	Thank you so much, and it's true. Minister Majda Shirca has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Dear Member, Mr Chernač, you were once at the head of Lipica, and you know how difficult it is to clean up the barns and how awkward situations are when things get so far confused that there is no angel or god in the world that could soon be settled. In the case of the Film Fund, the Court of Auditors has clearly stated that it did not operate in accordance with the rules not in 2006, nor in 2006, nor in 2008. It is therefore difficult to resolve the situation, even though there is as good a financial knower as there is now, in the short term. Even in the light of the fact that the system’s gabarits are not designed and have not been studied in the past. And as you know, by amending the Fund Act, the last second of the previous government has further narrowed down the possibility of correct corrections. However, this did not result in a fall. Even more, in a very important segment, which the previous government, although enshrined in the law, did not respect, it is said, in the guidelines for co-financing of audiovisual media, which we respected in this government, despite the fact that it was this crisis and that we all had to face a significant difficult situation. And so there have been many more films, but elsewhere there is another problem that these films are not because they were not in the past, although the directive requires them, I am talking about the production of independent producers that public television should provide to a certain extent because the law says so, and our measurements currently say that they do not, even though the RTV Board reports say they do. Despite all these problems, however, certain segments are being rectified and will continue to be rectified. But it is impossible for the Court of Auditors overnight to agree that for a three-yearly questionable action, a proven questionable action, you can say - but now it is over. Moreover, I am afraid that the prosecution's instructions will require us to address those incorrect cases of financing, paying and some incompatible functions, some high-level official who is now safely waiting at the Ministry of Culture and dealing with other things, not those that would dictate his work.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u143	Thank you very much. In fact, there is no replica or room for discussion because no one else has answered. Excuse me? Well, anyway, you have a word, but you can talk more than just time for a replica, because it's still a general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Cleaning the stables has been pleasant compared to cleaning up the insurrection that sometimes needs to be served for officials who are also, unfortunately, part of your political group. I've been on this occasion before, and if I could compare each other, I'd rather do it first than second. Otherwise, with the situation in Lipica, because you mentioned it, 13 years ago, that was 1996 to 1997, and then in a relatively short time, to some extent in a very different situation than today, we stabilised the operation of this public institution. It is true, however, that then such and different political games have begun, which have continued to date and will likely continue, because the way of action is such that these political games allow. And, unfortunately, you used them too when you came to power. Because the institution has been doing well in the past term, this is acknowledged even by your client colleague, who was sitting in the National Assembly, Mr Terčon, who is now mayor of Sežana, who said that under Director Desert, who was dumped in a grave way, the institution was doing well and that he set it on the right foundation. I was talking about the Film Fund, not the Kobilina Lipica. In the Film Fund, you yourself said that the problems were in 2006, 2007 and 2008, but during that period 2006 and 2007, the lady who was President of the Zares Party Council was also President of the Fund's Supervisory Board. It's the first time I've heard she's a capable financial asset. I don't think he has that kind of knowledge. It's social guidance, but it's not that important. The point is, because things didn't go well. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u145	My friend, please don't qualify. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u146	is a then Minister [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u147	other people. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u148	The Minister of State then changed the matter. [[...]] The former government has appointed it, Janša's government has appointed it, your President of the Council, indeed, and has also suspended it because it has not done its job well. You just named her again - that's what I'm talking about. If you'll allow me, Madam President, just one more word, because it appears quite often in the debates that 6,000 people have been employed in the administration of the previous term. I don't know where you got those numbers. There on the Ministry's website everything is written down and this report, which I showed you earlier, says on page 150: "The last mandate marked a reduction in the number of employees in the civil part of the state administration in accordance with the coalition contract. The number of employees in the civilian part of the state administration without the military and police has decreased by 399 from December 2004 to September 1, 2008, a reduction of 2.21%." And what we expect today is that these guidelines continue in 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Joze Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Madam Minister said at the "hiring" that 20 feature films will be made annually. This plan will not be implemented this year. I wonder if this plan will be implemented in 2010? Given that we are adopting the 2010 budget, I wonder what these feature films will be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Does the secretary want to answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u152	Nowhere in the world or at least in Europe is the Minister or Minister determined which films are to be made and will not be recorded in this mandate. I hope that the Film Fund, or some other similar form, will provide a framework for the future work of film or audiovisual production in Slovenia. I believe that there will also be enough authors who will want to do so to do so to have enough public-private forms of cooperation, but certainly there will be no minister who will be able to tell the titles of the films, which means that he will not determine them, but he can agree with them and control the money that the state has to give to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Well, now, if it's that the minister doesn't know the title of the film, somehow excused, I wonder if he'll be 20? Given that we are adopting the budget, we also accept the part of the budget with which the projects are co-financed and probably if we adopt the 2010 budget in advance, we know the number and what we will co-finance in 2010. That's probably a realistic expectation. And if you've given an explanation for co-financing, then you probably know what's going on there. This is what I would expect from a department minister who has put up such an explicit thesis that every year 20 films, full-time films, will be made and I would expect an appropriate response not to such an evasiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u155	Thank you very much. You want a word? Please. Maja Shirca, Minister of Culture, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u156	Mr Tanko, if there is enough copyright in Slovenia, and I am sure there will be, there will be 20, there will be 30. This year they were created, of course, not full-time, but other types of audiovisual products, more than 20, because they were already on item AV, audiovisual production, made quite a bit. How many of them will depend, as I say, on the condition of the authors and producers, certainly also on the budget, which, as you know, today is also a point, does not reduce the resources on this item, which means that there should be at least as many as in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss the general part of the complementary part of the 2010 draft budget? I can't see my hands anymore. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The vote on the general part of the supplementary draft budget will be held on Wednesday, 25 November 2009, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We are moving on to a general discussion of the specific part of the supplementary draft budget for 2010. Anybody want to talk? I don't see any applicants for discussion. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2009 With regard to the amendment of the SDS, SLS and SNS sent groups, I would like to point out that it relates only to the reduction of funds in individual sub-programmes within different users and does not contain a proposal to increase funds in certain sub-programmes, so this amendment is discussed within the framework of the first-mentioned user, the President of the Republic of Slovenia. So I am opening a debate with budget user 1111, President of the Republic of Slovenia and other users. The amendment is quite extensive, up to page 34, the applicants are SDS, SLS and SNS. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? First he has the word Mr Zvonko Blackach, then Mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I mentioned this amendment in the general work debate earlier. I also mentioned why he was put in. This is a reduction of around €800 million on the expenditure side, leading the budget deficit to a level set by the Stability Pact of 3% of gross domestic product. The ambition to submit this amendment was, of course, that the Government of these figures, which are in the 2010 budget as well as 2011 budget, should verify, within the time it has before it re-enters the National Assembly, all possibilities after rationalisation, where these expenditure is not necessarily needed. However, I said in the introduction that the dimension of this amendment and this reduction, of course, are significantly broader. Without appropriate structural adjustments, it is clear that it is impossible to reduce these funds in a short period of time, but unfortunately this time has been optimal, which has been needlessly delayed. Unless this time is delayed during the period when we have proposed this, when we have taken the initiative to sit together, to check all these activities that would lead to this state bureaucrat apparatus being adequately reformed in these circumstances, to achieve greater efficiency through this, which is essential for the future, and to verify and verify the level of political consensus and wider social consensus in this regard. I'm afraid that wasn't the case. Nevertheless, we estimate that consumption is too high. That spending on those segments where there is no need to spend enormously is necessary, that it should be reduced urgently and that certain rationalisation measures should, of course, also be introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, there are no ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I myself, through my debate this morning, have been thinking in a direction and proving through the analysis that I have prepared, that the simple budgets that are under consideration do not reflect the 2010 and 2011 budget the savings that we would have expected in the times in which we would have expected. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have always proposed similar amendments to both the 2009 budget rebalancing, where we wanted to make it very clear that there is a need to start saving in this country, and that the Slovenian economy simply cannot afford such an expensive country as this, especially in these acute situations. It would be right for the State, the Government, to respond very seriously to this fact if you would also like this National Assembly. We are talking about the budgets for 2010 - 2011, which means that in 2011, almost three quarters of this government's mandate will be completed, and in view of this fact, one would really expect that this government will also be in the light of the structural reforms that are under discussion; unfortunately, it is only in the debate that these two budgets are much more serious, especially in the direction of reducing public spending than I said. In fact, the Slovenian economy and this society simply cannot afford such a dear country. That is why today this budget, I apologize, is this amendment that we have drafted in all three opposition parties, which is talking about reducing spending by about 800 million. With this, we want to illustrate a clear signal that there is also a need to seriously start saving in all areas in this country. In the areas of operation of smaller ministries, in the field of operation of different offices, agencies and so on. For no one in this country can today, when directors, managers of individual companies are looking for ways to survive companies, how to survive workers and workers, no one in this country can simply afford a carefree life and increase the spending of individual budget items, no matter what happens in this country. This is irresponsible and I would expect that, through these two budgets, they would somehow stop it. I've been through the analysis myself this morning with numbers to prove that this is the case, and tomorrow I'm going to present something similar for 2011. I expect that this amendment will not be adopted because it has been some folklore lately, that what the opposition is proposing is simply not taken into account. Take this as a serious warning for you to start saving in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u161	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about amendments or amendments to this user? I can only see one hand. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u162	Thank you very much. If we have listened to a number of hours and in all the rebalancings that the opposition is proposing only solutions that burden public finances that increase deficits, we have this time before us, but that was not true, because we have only proposed balanced amendments, such as redistributing within the lines under the foreseen deficit, this time we have an amendment that is actually just lowering and reducing it only on material items. It is interesting that the Government has not actually found any positive argument among these items proposed to say, but perhaps only in this part of the proposal you have proposed, all these material costs for the coordination of services, for administrations, for copying, for the coordination of tasks are not necessary or are too high. It might be possible for the Government to take this amendment analytically, to say systemicly, with some serious approach, to establish that there are reserves on these items where we propose a reduction in order to reach 3% of the deficit, to find possible reserves. I think that there would be a lot of places where we could lower, rationalize the work of a lot of copying machines, I think that would be no problem, rationalize the work and costs of a lot of jobs in public administration, but obviously there is a problem here. Because we have an increase of 1,800 employees back there, and it is obvious that we are going completely against the trends currently present in the government. I am sorry that the government is actually the only one that does not support rationalisation. We have proposed a concrete measure, and in every sub-item we have written under this amendment, the Government has written something in the sense that a reduction is not possible. In the case of another user, no reduction is possible; in the case of a third user, no reduction is possible and so on or the reduction is not acceptable. There's no substantive argument for that. I would expect the Government to take the analysis of this amendment seriously, also to undertake a serious analysis of all these public spending, which is abnormally high, and many economists also point to this, and to try to find reserves in public spending by means of this amendment and, accordingly, perhaps by means of a modified proposal, to reduce the deficit that is enormous and exceeds all borders. I'm sorry the government didn't make this move. However, I think it would make sense that we take seriously the accession of the Government to this amendment and to all the other amendments that have been tabled. We have a government that is enlightened by God, because not one of the proposals proposed, but quite a few, meets the criteria for any minimum revision of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010. This probably hasn't happened in the history of this country. This is the first time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u164	You could say you've put a lot of effort into this amendment. However, it is quite unusual and difficult to do what we should be doing at this stage of budget adoption. To write an amendment after, I don't know, dozens of items and eventually add up to €794 million is an attempt to show to the public that what the Government has done and what, in the stage of all coordination, including the discussion on the working bodies in the National Assembly, it has no value, and only with some generality, I don't even know if you took the balance sheet, but say to everyone, we take it roughly the same, whether you did it selectively. You know exactly that on the administrative unit of Škofja Lok, depending on the volume of work, given all that is there, you can reduce budget expenditure by 200,000 euros. All the amounts are round, so to speak, they're written in some way, I'm not going to say populistally, because I believe that you, as well as all of us, are up to reducing public spending wherever possible. When I look at the Government's explanation for this amendment, it's not so modest and it's not true that rejection is just like that, but in every part of this amendment is actually justified, why not. While it bothers me that most amendments in terms of nothing are possible, the rejection of parts of the amendment in terms of nothing can be done. I myself am not satisfied that this year the number of employees has increased by 1,800, and there is likely to be something else in the public sector, as well as I am not satisfied with the information that it has increased by 6,000 earlier, and some places are now doubling these numbers and so on. But we're in some real state. In general, I simply did not want to advertise myself because I also wanted to talk about how it is necessary to rationalise consumption on one hand, how resources are limited, how the situation will be even more acute in the coming year or 2011 and how it will be even more difficult to fill the budget, even harder, is more or less clear to everyone, and it is also clear that, of course, it is not possible to draw up a budget so that everyone is satisfied and not right if everyone is dissatisfied. I remember years when all the ministers and ministers were dissatisfied with the budgets, and in the end they all brought together, they all survived, no one gave up, all the programmes were realized to the point to which, in the slogans, they came out. So much money, so much music. That's just the way it is, and now I believe it won't be any different. I simply cannot support this amendment because I say so many items, you would simply say, at all items from 1 to 37 it is linearly reduced by so much or otherwise, but not by giving us the impression that on some items it is easy to, I don't know, 7, 10, 15 million and so continue to reduce certain expenditure. At the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, you say around 15 million euros. We are adopting some laws here, we are taking some measures, including intervention and similar, and the expectation is that social transfers can also be reduced by some of the measures that we have recently taken, which can reduce by 15 million euros. On the one hand, there is a need, of course, I am not saying that there is no item within this ministry where either at material costs or I do not know where to reduce for a certain part. But if you think it's just the intervention measures, the intervention measures that we have to take, and if we're only talking about the Pomura Act and some of the other things we've been taking here, then there's money to be provided from somewhere. I don't understand how it can be said, fifteen million euros and it will be easy to implement intervention measures in this area. Not to mention some other stuff. You are saying how important security is, how bad is it in some areas of work, such as the Slovenian Intelligence Security Agency, which I have heard a number of times the question of how there is no data, how do we not know what is happening and so on. Here you can easily propose a reduction of €7 million and, of course, a sub-programme for information security activities, i.e. basic activities. I don't know, maybe it's easy, maybe for a while it's called, we don't need this job. I know that there is also a job that we are still inventing some offices, agencies, commissions and so on, which may not be necessary at this time and could be done by someone else. But the way I get an amendment for eight hundred million euros on the table, and you say you're going to halve the projected deficit, a little less because 1.85 billion euros is foreseen. But of course, servicing debt, because servicing debt is so much a permanent task, but this is what happens when we were assigned a little while ago, I remember here performances in Mr Bayuk's previous mandate, how delighted he was that money on the market is cheap and we owe ourselves. And we're not even dealing with one more part here, the part that we're probably going to get once again in the public debt of the country, and that's what we're now doing outside this highway debt, which is more than problematic in terms of the State's obligation. And if this burden on the public debt service segment, as envisaged, is increased for only that long, it is certainly sustainable, as anticipated. I believe that when we consider the 2011 budget, we will see that this trend begins to decline. In fact, I would like to ask a question: Did you really think with this amendment that it might be possible to have such a restrictive budget, I certainly believe, and it pains me to go into the part of spending the state budget when we talk about salaries, material costs and so on, in increasing the percentage, I hope that we will not get to 60% as some speak and that for investments and other parts there will be 40 percent or less, that would be my bad. I believe there's no way to do this part with one swing. I'm pretty sure that's because all the numbers are written round, million, five million, 700,000, and so on. Who do you want to convince with this? Whether the public that the ruling coalition can't prepare budgets, that we can't manage, or anything else, that's another question. But what exactly is the objective of such an amendment, which writes a list in line and says, at the end of the line comes so much and so much, it is a big money of EUR 800 million. That is why, as it is said, because I do not see from that basic message, I would immediately join any concrete justification for one euro saved in any area you mention here. I believe that the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering as you have it in here, and some other things, that is, I hear those who deal with it, that it is even nourished in this work, that it is trained so materially with equipment as well as personnel, that it may or may not be easier to detect potential smugglers or smugglers or money launderers, as you call them, that I do not even speak of certain other services. But I've already said something about the Slovenian Security Intelligence Agency. That's why we could talk about this amendment in broad terms. But when I hear what a fundamental mission is, I believe that it is a savings issue, but if you put a number of EUR 800 million in one swing, I no longer believe it, because it cannot be embedded within the various items as you have defined them, in a way that ensures the performance of the tasks and that this goal is also achieved.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u165	Thank you. Ms Pavlinič Krebs spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, I would like to respond and take this amendment as a well-intentioned one, in principle with opposition Members who are seeking to reduce the volume of resources for public administration and the wider public sector, to reduce public sector wage costs, I absolutely agree, but I have a problem with ease when we discuss this difficult issue. In this morning's work, when I wanted to discuss this difficult social issue, I wanted to point out that in 2010, if the crisis continues, there is a serious issue that we will actually have to face all the citizens of this country. How many public services, how many rights, how many red tape, if you want, we can still afford it. That's not a simple question. You know that adopting legislation that imposes new obligations on the administration that imposes new standards of public services, better standards in schools, in preschool education, in hospitals, is the wish of all of us. How to organise, with how many people to provide these services, there will be no waiting types, and this is a fundamental issue that knocks on every government's holes. And more than we have to admit that we are dealing with this difficult issue, we are not the most successful or the most successful. With this amendment, which we have carefully examined regarding the reduction of resources for the work of administrative units, I would like to explain the following. Mr Žerjav rightly said that we, the Ministry of Public Administration, together with the administrative units, took saving within our powers very seriously. The indices of the level of resources for our work, for our existence, are very low, but in order to change operational programmes, we have achieved an increase of €10 million in resources in the area of better and information-supported public administrations, all with a view to improving the competitiveness of our economy, and in our work we have increased resources to reduce administrative burdens, and this process will be led by the help of the third sector. However, in the 2010 draft budget, the administrative units acquired only a million euro more than they had spent in 2008. Most of these funds are part of the realisation of wage imbalances since August 2008, with consequences also in 2009 in the field of material costs. However, in the area of small investments, costs are reduced by a careful review of where savings can be made and by the extent to which resources do not actually mean an increase in resources, given the extent of the resources that administrative units have been provided for work for 2009, both in the area of salaries and in the field of material costs and other services. After a serious discussion with the heads of administrative units, which express concern that, due to possible increases in demand for certain public services, they will not be able to survive through such budgets in the financial year 2010. Your amendment, which you have proposed, reduces this amount of resources for administrative units by €15 million. So 14 million less than undisputed administrative units spent in 2008. This is also the only segment of the state administration, where the number of public officials has decreased and has stopped today, I think, more than at the optimal level. At the time of the adoption of such an amendment, administrative units, which are deconcentrated exposures from the ministries of the Ministry of Interior, the environment and the area, the Ministry of Agriculture - these are actually employees of these ministries, who work directly with citizens and citizens - provide services to these ministries on the ground, and in this part would significantly distort the functioning of administrative units. Operation of the Ministry responsible for public administration. For the functioning of the administration, we are reducing funds even to the realization of this ministry in 2008, when this current government was not yet in power. In fact, we have reduced our professions in all areas. The amendment you are proposing reduces these 13 million, i.e. less resources than the implementation in 2008, by five million euros, which means, in fact, that we are not able to carry out these tasks more than the ministry. I see the same problem with the amendment, which aims to reduce the earmarking of EUR 2 million for the maintenance and maintenance of service and rental apartments. As you know, this is an asset, as you know, the policy of the current government in the field of employment management after many years of stagnation and, following a significant communication from the Court of Auditors, where the unnecessary housing of all three funds, the Ministry of Defence, Home Affairs and the Ministry of Public Administration, which, on behalf of the Government, regulates this fund, goes in a direction, we go in a direction, and the apartments that are not needed have been transferred to the management of the Republic Housing Fund, with other dwellings simply within the mere means of disposal of unnecessary assets, we are restoring this fund in a modest way. In fact, the demand of civil servants for housing is almost ten times higher than the capacity of the State to offer them housing. Finally, funds to provide spatial and other conditions for the work of the state authorities are provided and tried to provide adequate conditions for work both at the secondary level, that is, at the level of ministries and at the primary level, that is on the ground. This is a modest resource, €14 million, which is the same amount as the realisation in 2008. You suggest that these funds be reduced by eight million. As you know, several administrative units operate in premises where inspections have already imposed almost eviction measures because the state has failed to remedy some unsustainable spatial conditions. This is a situation that is leaky, and this modest means for all ministries, for the level of all state authorities, except the municipalities, in effect ensure that fires are only extinguished on the ground, that those essential maintenance works are restored, that these spatial standards are carried out where they are most problematic, as long as they are maintained, that there is no danger. It is necessary to know here that customers visit these offices and this negligence cannot be afforded by the State. The real estate management strategy is a country's wish, and we adopted it in 2009 to replace expensive rentals with a gradual purchase of these premises. This budget absolutely does not allow such ambitions to be realized, so that we are condemned to pay fairly high rents, the lessors are aware that the state with the apparatus it has uses spaces and in the process of reducing rents we have not been as successful as we would like to be. In 2009, we negotiated lower rents with lenders in almost most cases, some ministries will move to locations where rents are smaller, but in order to provide premises owned by the state with construction, it seems, in view of the crisis and, in fact, the extent of the funds we have provided, is really impossible. So these amendments, of course, have a legitimate objective, but in the case of the budget items that I am defending myself, they simply indicate that they would seriously undermine the operation of at least the work covered by our ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u167	Thank you. I can see the hands. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Well, here the state has to follow the economy in this situation. What did the economy do when the crisis started? But you think the economy didn't act very quickly, the companies settled down quickly, the crisis managers settled down, the administrations sat down, looked at what was going on, and what was going to happen in 2009, not to talk about 2010, we are now talking about 2010, but already for 2009 for this year, those who wanted to survive had to take the appropriate measures. I have to tell you that I don't know almost the entrepreneur I've been talking to, who didn't cut costs by less than 15% this year. He's almost gone. There, up to 30, 40% have fallen, given what has been announced and something similar is expected for next year to survive and that activities will be able to take place. I'm talking 10% here. €800 million represents around 10% of the budget. 10%, not 20%, not 30%, that's 10%. There is no real basis for arguing that this cannot be done if it is desired and desired. It's not. Clearly, though, he does not want to do so. On the one hand, we are increasing our expenditure and lowering our revenue, the spread is a billion 800 in all three years; 2009, 2010 and 2011 and we are hearing about how nothing can be done on the use segment. The last time we read in Finance, after working hours, after APIS statistics in the first nine months of the year, 1802 more employees in administration than last year. So much has been paid, with the number of employees declining in the economy, that there are 78 thousand who do not know whether they will still be able to come back or not. They don't know. Whether this measure will be successful or will not be successful in temporarily subsidised working time or waiting for work. In this case, when it comes to the state, there are no such measures. Clearly, the crisis is just for some, for this government, and it is not for this budget. For when we speak of the crisis, it is felt on their shoulders primarily by those who create it. Everyone else obviously doesn't feel this crisis. The crisis, if it is, is for everything and what is most wrong is that I feel the most on my back those who are already so and so because of the situation most affected. There's been a lot of talk about those, and I'm going to say relatively small segments, such as apartments, rentals, redemptions, sales and so on. But no matter what, look -- we're in a relatively unpleasant situation, and the state is buying apartments, with hundreds of them empty. For each of these blanks, we have heard that the country costs 1,000 euros a year. 1,000 euros costs every empty apartment in the country, an empty one that has nothing to do with it. But there's probably 1,000 of them. If we calculate these numbers and put them together, it's a few million euros. And don't say that you can't do that, that the previous governments haven't done that, indeed, this problem is being dragged through more governments in one part, but now, if the situation is different, if there are no more revenues to be used to service public finances, then you have to cut down on everything the state has and not refer to what has been done before. Action should now be taken to make a quick decision on this issue, by filling in empty apartments on one side, getting rent, reducing costs, selling what is not necessary, and not buying other apartments for public servants in a few hundred empty apartments. It was said that, for the purposes of the administration, it was not possible to afford to replace expensive rentals with a gradual purchase of these facilities. Of course, it would have been a mistake, but an even greater error was made at the moment, as in the case of a police building, when the financing was purchased by a state-owned company, the consulting and management company is 100% owned by the state, this contract has been terminated, so the rent would have been paid essentially to itself and these premises would have been in 15 years or I don't know how long the country's own time, not a single euro of rent would have been lost. Instead, this contract was cancelled, landed on the cross of the former Interior Minister, that he signed such a contract, while the State signed a contract with a consulting and management company that is 100% owned by the State and which built this facility only because it did not additionally burden public finances, but the effect would be: secure premises, otherwise paying the rent of the country to itself, and after 15 years - premises of the State. What's going on now? Now they're renting properties on the private market, not with the final purchase, but in such a way that all these costs go to nothing. A number of cases have also occurred in the past when it was found that this property was paid through rents during the seven years. Of course, it's easy to build like that, anyone would be such an entrepreneur if there was a country on the other side that went into such a relationship. So, unfortunately, even during this period, there were quite a few decisions that were disputed with some clever logic. They show, on the one hand, some kind of rematchism in an unnecessary way, instead of actually taking an optimal approach, looking at how business can be rationalised, and also where things can now be set up in some way, things can be rationalised. But these are relatively small cases that have been mentioned, and each one of them means something, each of them means this state of spirit, which speaks of the fact that as long as the state can be in debt, there is no crisis for them. That's the logic. And that logic can work for a few years, but it's catastrophic in the long run, and it means bankruptcy in the country, and that's what nobody wants, I believe. As a result, this proposal was made, because these things are being seriously reviewed, reconsidered and, if not now, at least for 2011, a change could be made, as some solutions can be taken in this period, which would have positive effects.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u169	Thank you. Madam Minister, may I have a word with you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u170	The DSU thing sounds really good, Mr. Blackach. The budget line of the Ministry of Public Administration provides, in accordance with the law, funds for the provision of spatial and other conditions for the work of the public authorities. This is at ministerial and primary level. In view of the needs of the ministries, not only the Ministry of the Interior, including the judiciary, even if you want, the Ministry of Education, for higher education, has not been feasible, it is also estimated that your government will increase these resources under the integrated budget. DSU was established, DSU real estate d.o.o. as "bypass", through which your government - according to the Court of Auditors - is wrong, but I do not want to deal with this issue, with the Court of Auditors' assessment - has provided spatial conditions for several ministries and some judicial bodies. Today they are operating under better working conditions. Do you know where it's known? At the height of the rent. Because, you know, you're an economist, you know, you're a tenant, but this lease is well accounted for. It's okay. In the long term, the State will become the owner of these premises and so on, and if it does not have the Court of Auditors' opinion that since these constructions were carried out without public calls, of course this is the way, this is the way to provide spatial conditions by lease with a gradual buy-in, also recorded in this Government's resolution. That's how we're on the same shore. Admit that this "bypass" has been used and the ministries that have these new premises are paying extremely high rents because this construction cost is accounted for in what is perfectly normal, and then the same Members ask us through the parliamentary questions, I think I have already answered five questions why we are not able to reduce the rents that we are paying for the work of the state authorities. Because there are also a number of costs in these rentals for the construction of premises for the work of the public authorities. So we're here at the same wavelength, but then we have an increase in the material costs for the work of state authorities and there's a problem when it's addressed to state authorities, why they don't reduce material costs - because they're fixed because this lease is a long-term contract with a gradual buy-back and it has to be repaid. Instead of building a third country, this construction, of course, stood. Here I agree with you, renting with a gradual redemption - yes, but it must be through public orders that the matter is transparent. The economy has acted in a way that has reduced the volume of production. That's the problem, and I talked about it this morning. When the crisis is, it is usually expected that the country will engage more, more and more public officials. Take a look at the employees at the Ministry of Labour, at the employment institutions when the crisis is expected in all areas to provide optimal public services. You're right, then you should say that we should reach a social consensus that second. This crisis will obviously last. In the area of public services, we will reduce the scope of these, lower standards, lower standards, and do not do anything else in one year. We've actually stopped the wages. Everything else we watch when we watch employment, we keep an eye on it every month. According to the JAPES, we all know exactly what the methodology is, the number of hours spent in the public sector is being monitored, and the government has ordered austerity measures for all those working in the public sector, not only in the field of material costs, but also in reducing the number of employees. By August 2009 - we are starting from December 2008 - the hours were 156.381. And, by the way, you didn't tell the public about this information before, but you only talked about the data of the government in a narrower sense. In fact, in the area of wage policy, the Public Sector Wage System Act should be seen in full. This sector is not controlled by our ministry. The mode of employment is in the domain of all my fellow ministers. But we've taken measures that we're all supposed to stick to, and we've been monitoring what's happening to us for a month. Less than 241 employees were employed in the public sector in August 2009. This figure increased to 157,239 in September. So so many more hours in the public sector have been done. We are doing a very thorough analysis and will also provide you with information on what this information actually means. But when we look at where the number of employees is increasing during this period, where the number of employees is decreasing, there is an increase, for example, in the area of social welfare. Even during your government's term, you invested in building new homes for the elderly. This year, several homes were given in Slovenia in use. It is not likely that anyone expected that we would not allow the right people to work here to start working at home. Last but not least, these costs are borne by users in an important part on their own. The promotion of public sector employees is therefore an important part to be attributed to the opening of these new homes, including the opening of a new paediatric clinic, the modernisation of the clinic's premises in Ljubljana. It's just things. Also getting equipment, where it's generally obvious that it's being used. You know, the equipment for these rooms had to be bought, including the facilities for the treatment of patients. The Minister of Health, at the time of the 2009 budget rebalancing, when we discussed why the material costs of hospitals were increasing, said very precisely that this is a device, for these beds, for another device, and these are the reasons that each minister, for himself, is carefully examining. I am sure that all of you will be able to answer that this is not over-expenditure and that we will be able to reduce public spending once we reach a new social consensus, otherwise it will not work. My personal assessment is that up to 5%, a maximum of 10% would really be able to do this with restrictive interventions, which is what we did in 2009 and 2010. As you can see, we are moving in an important part at the level of consumption in 2008, at least our ministry, at least our administrative unit. This means that, in increasing electricity prices, energy prices and so on, we need to save and reduce. We can't increase the number of employees, either. In the State Administration, the number of staff members in this administrative section is falling absolutely. That's not a question. We have that under control. Thus, a rapid reduction within a year after the start of the mandate, i.e. as in the economy, where you must admit, public procurement has decreased. In most cases the volume of public procurement has decreased for the public administration and the public sector as a whole. You must recognise that the scope of public services needs has not decreased, and it has increased. The pressure on State action is significantly higher than it was in the past. Such comparisons of such similar action in the public sector are less appropriate. However, I absolutely and entirely agree that a percentage more could be done, but in this case we have followed the consumer rule of the country, where projects have been prepared, we are also trying to strengthen the Slovenian economy by means of state investments.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't want to mess with anyone, not with you, Madam Minister. Obviously we're talking about two different things or we don't have the same numbers as you do. And I respect you because you definitely did the most to save yourself as Minister of Public Administration. But I still argue that there was no clear framework in which individual budgetary users should move to prepare this budget for 2010 and 2011. There were no instructions, there was no strategy or, if you want, even the toughest, order: we have to lower the costs by so much and so many percent. Pika! We don't have any money. And this should be done by the President of the Government, given the fact that we all know how the budgets have been drawn up so far - based on indexation. And it came to the end of the year, just like we are now, and at that time, all the budget consumers spent a lot of money on getting their consumption and on the basis of this indexation consumption for next year. How can you explain to me why, for example, the Office of Secret Data Protection - I see no connection to the crisis, no connection to what - how can index 143 have compared to the 2009 budget? Where's the savings here? Or, if you want, the Office of the Government for Religious Communities Index 115. I gave you all the indexes you want this morning. Where's the cost reduction? Where's the savings? You were talking about material costs, Madam Secretary-General. Don't we have the same numbers? This year's implementation was estimated at 865 million. We are talking about the costs of goods and services. The 2010 budget is 895, so we increase this item by 3.3%, when we know precisely that in a time of crisis where a person would expect the price of services or the price of goods to be lower if we are to purchase it, we will buy the same amount. Although I think it would be right to buy less, including all these directors, I would not want to be unfair to the Director of the Bureau of Secret Data Protection. How can it afford to spend more than was foreseen for 2009? Do you think that the projected amount of money or the projected budget for 2009 would prevent them from surviving in 2010? How could they survive? And such offices are a whole species, and unfortunately that's why - what I'm saying was that there were no clear guidelines, there was no clear strategy, there was no strategy that we actually want with this budget. I will not now discuss the development or indevelopment of this budget, I am talking about whether we have done everything and more what we should do: to save to relieve the economy in this way. This economy cannot afford such a dear country. Don't we have the same numbers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u173	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u174	There's only one answer I owe you. The cost of goods and services, colleague Kamnareva explained very well in this morning's work that this percentage is increasing here, because we have increased the use of European funds through the change of operational programmes and, as you know, cohesion funds in 85% of the European budget, 15% of us have to provide the ministry ourselves. In these cases, these integral funds of the ministries are also shown under the budget item Goods and services. And for this reason alone, there is a global increase at this point, and I think the State Secretary has said that the index is 98% in an important part of the state budget users. Mr. Chernač, I'm afraid I still owe you an answer regarding the purchase of apartments. You know exactly what this means, and that these glasses are on the budget line of the Ministry of Public Administration or have run from the sale of unnecessary and unsuspecting dwellings, which are in locations all over Slovenia, and there was no interest in the occupation or are in any case completely useless. In the four years from 2004 to 2008, so much money has been flowing that the Ministry can buy these few apartments and that the three funds have decided this year to do this consumption, because there are so many empty apartments on the market to help the economy as well. These resources cannot be spent entirely for the purpose of restoring housing funds on the basis of existing legislation. And, by the way, on the invitation issued by the Government to rent state-owned non-profit apartments in 2009, I think a little less than 200 applicants for 20 empty apartments. For all the other apartments where you say they are empty and untapped - I do not claim to be a fund managed by the Ministry of Public Administration to untapped premises. We carried them either to the congregations, including tenants who pay a profit when there was no need for a government official. These are apartments that are located all over Slovenia and are inherited - it is a inherited state from still independent times. However, I agree, Mr Žerjav, with you at the point so that perhaps we can reduce more by some percentage in the global fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u175	Mr. Blackach has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u176	Actually, I have a replica of Mrs. Secretary. This way of thinking is shown here: the funds that came from the sale cannot be used for anything other than purchases. So we have to spend it so there's not gonna be anything left. But the government is the one who creates the legislation, sets it, and changes it, and in these circumstances there must be no problem here. Thousands of apartments are empty. According to a senior government official from May this year, the country pays thousands of euros a year for an empty apartment to be managed, says a million euros a year to avoid talking about lost rents - a few million euros. That's what I've been talking about, and we know what it's like to order, when it comes to legal entities that are 100% owned by the state, and about these purchases that you've been talking about. But I must say, what you've been basing on, I didn't really get it very well. The consulting and management company is a legal entity 100% owned by the State and the DSU property is 100% owned by this entity, according to 100% owned by the State. All the premises that will be acquired in this way will be 100% owned by the country. And even if 100 units are paid through rent, it will end up being the value of the state's assets. However, if there is another private lease of 80 units paid, there will be nothing left of it, not a single unit of property, because it will still be the property of the renter and the state will pay the rent. And everything she paid as a rent was a rent. That's the difference. And what did you do when you took power? You've changed this, or you've cancelled this contract, which would allow the state to acquire ownership, or the payment of this purchase, but these premises would be owned by the state. Okay, maybe you'd understand that if you said we didn't need this police force not to need it. But on the other hand, at the same time, you are looking for a tenant or a tenant, a private tenant, who will be paid rent without a final ransom. So in the end, the country will be deprived of all this rent. That's what you did, and then you say you agree with me that this is a good path that we set up. Then why did you do it?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u177	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u178	Don't let it go unanswered. It's none of my business, and I didn't break this contract. But it is undeniable, regardless of the legal situation of this company, that your company, which you have established, has done this legal business without a public contract. And what's the problem? You know, the country, if it wants [[...]] [[It's a bench ad.]] Of course, that's why I'm saying it's bypass. [[...]] The Court of Auditors has pointed out that this is illegal legal transactions and the Minister of the Interior has acted as she has done. The way in which businesses are acquired for the work of the state administration and the lease is a real solution. That's what I'm talking about. There's not a thousand apartments empty. You're generating that data. Every month, we monitor on the government's housing commission the state of the housing fund managed by our ministry, and we do not have empty apartments.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u179	Thank you. You want a replica? Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u180	929 to make the number more accurate is empty apartments. This information was published in May of this year. 929 state officials, Madam Secretary. You think if they're under the influence of the Ministry of Defense, then they're not state housing, then they're not the apartments of this country? No, of course they are! It's all public property and it's a little strange that we're discussing it this way. You're saying that the invitation to tender should be from a company that is 100% owned by the state. When Mr Jankovic bought 800 apartments, it was confirmed that no invitation to tender was required.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Zerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. I just wanted to check to see if I heard you, Madam Minister, talking about index 98 or 89. In short, I've got a whole bunch of cases here where it sure as hell doesn't hold. And if I touch the Bureau of Secret Data Protection, it's my fault, but I have the first one written. This one had the 2009 budget, which was also made up of us, €364,000. The second balance for 2009, i.e. the budget already drawn up by this government, was foreseen at EUR 420,000. And for the 2010 budget, you are forecasting EUR 521,000. Example: Secretary-General. For our government, almost 15 million, 14 million 980, the second rebalancing dedicated 15 million 700, and the 2010 budget provides for 16 million and 88,000 euros. Why? Why if we're in a crisis? What for? And I can give you a whole bunch of these, not one, two, three, ten if you want!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr. Tanko made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u184	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that the explanation of this amendment is extremely modest, and it is extremely unfortunate that this explanation begins only on page 3 of the amendment, at the General Secretariat of the Government, that all previous explanations have been omitted. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the maximum of this government is saving, that practice or fact is different, because spending, the spending side is enormous, is enormously growing and the difference is extremely large. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that some of the working bodies - for example, the Commission on Public Finance Control, as well as the Commission led by Mr Kumer and in which the coalition has a majority - have adopted a recommendation to reduce public spending or public financial deficit to 3%. In short, the trend was well set. However, the fact is that when a large number of jobs have disappeared, it is said, the number of people in the employment agency has increased dramatically, that the number of foreigners working under the contracts has decreased dramatically, it is also said, by 61 000, that there are a whole set of some 10,000 on the subsidy. However, at the time when all these restrictions are imposed, the government employs and the number of increased burdens is 1,800 employees. It may also be possible to take a measure, such as reducing the public debt service item - we have also done so in the previous mandate - because Minister Bajuk, who is so criticised by his colleagues today, has managed to replace credits for cheaper loans and thus reduced the resulting burdens or costs of public debt servicing. Interest costs have fallen significantly. And there's one more thing. As part of these administrative measures, the various coordination measures that we propose are reduced, including various advisory contracts, household works, law-writing, various contracts for advisers in ministries, such as Mr Isajlović and the like. I'm sure there's a substantial savings on these items. And also these contracts with the pianist agencies in the situation we are in are probably not the most necessary cost for the functioning of the government. This amendment covers a number of these costs and it would be appropriate for the Government to also focus on analysing and reducing these items. In short, I estimate that not all items for which there is no justification can actually be reduced all material costs. So it follows from this explanation. At least that's what the government could propose, and that's a few hundred million euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u185	Thank you. Anyone else want an amendment to these users? No, no, no. We are moving to page 34 of the 2010 budget review of the amendments. We are moving to the user: Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians after replacement and worldwide. We have only one sub-programme: Support to Slovenians in place and abroad and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to this sub-programme. Anybody want to talk? Don't you? Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u186	As in the previous amendment, it is actually interesting to take on the same item, where it is already being taken, namely in the judiciary, the coordination of the Supreme Court and the functioning of the courts. That's where 10 million euros were taken in the previous year, now a million. What do you think will remain to work in this area? I would like to go this million as foreseen in the amendment, but simply to take - sometimes it was popular to take from the defence department. This was never in fashion with the SDS because they had different ideas about it. This morning, or all day long, there have been a lot of speeches about why they understood global large numbers, and within this too, great maneuvers or even guessing the public about what is going on with this money, as well as the involvement of certain authorities in this matter; now you are going to justice. On one side of the criticism, how ineffective, how prolonged or at least not reducing judicial backlogs, how the right of trial is violated within a reasonable time frame and the like; but: Here, the same item is added to the 10 million as in the previous amendment, another million is taken here at once. A nice amendment, I'd like to support it, but because of the way in which this item adds a million more, I can't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u187	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving to the user of the Ministry of Finance, where we have two amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are transferring to the user the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, where we have two different sub-programmes with each amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving to the next user, namely the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. We have 16 amendments here. I see two hands. Mr. Petan, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We have been hearing all day about the development budget. Of course, there are different approaches, as well as different views and different understandings of what development is and what conditions development and what is a condition for development. The fact is that development is not possible in any case without different transport infrastructures such as road, rail, aviation and the like and without communication. We have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party - I will limit myself to amendments under numbers 3, 4 and 5 - and we are also trying to get support for this. These projects are certainly the ones that enable development. I would say that they are the foundation of development and that without such objects there can be no development in the 21st century. The talk is, of course, about road infrastructure, road infrastructure facilities, intersections and circulars. There is no way that we can expect tourism development; we cannot expect foreigners who are used to good infrastructures; we could say that they are quite spoiled in good infrastructure. And our tourist economy has long been too large only for domestic guests, so we need foreign guests and road infrastructure is one of the conditions here. And if we are talking about a development-oriented budget, then we are certainly on the right track. And what facilities are we talking about here? It's about objects on the main roads. Before I introduce them, all I would say in general is that road infrastructure is not just a highway. Of course, it is good that we have built roads so far away, and we will probably have to do something else. That is why it is certainly right that we will build that part of the highway cross or attic, if I may say so, but it is also the main roads that will bring tourists to a destination. Without these roads, the highways won't have the perfect role we want. What are these three projects I'm talking about? It's an object, it's a circle in the Sun. At this point, a new settlement was created. From the previous three - croquet period, it is now four - legged and the problem is big because it is some kind of residential settlement. Then it is about a Rondo, it is on the highway Celje - Maribor, a breakaway for the Zreče and for Rogla, where a lot of accidents happened and it is a black point, especially in the direction from Zreč to the main road where a particularly careful ride is needed. And the intersection on the route of Slovenske Konjice - Polishes in Tepanje on the exit from the highway, where with a little more traffic, not at the tip, but with a little more traffic you can't or can't come by car from the highway and vice versa. And now the most important thing: these are not new objects that we would like to be added to this list of desired and urgent objects, but this is an infrastructure that is already ready. Two years ago, they were included in the construction programme, which is expected to be completed in 2010 and 2011. I will admit that the facilities were not deleted from the list, but their construction in 2012 and 2013 and after 2013. That means they're on the side track. With these amendments, we are only returning those funds that are still in place at the moment, because this budget has not yet been adopted, this budget is moving them away. Everything's ready, all you have to do is start building, and with this amendment we'd like to do it. Today we have heard at least thirty times, at least I, why not the previous government. Here I can say that it has done much because the projects are ready, the land is bought out, the calls are made, and the construction itself is now moving away. You'll tell me why you didn't even build it. Yeah, well, then you can tell me how far ahead the previous government should go, either for 10 or 20 or 30, because you can always ask the question, why hasn't she done it yet? And once again, there's nothing new. It is all in fact still in the current programme, but with this new budget, the matter will be set aside for a few years and, if there is, then it is definitely about development projects, about development-oriented projects. We also expect support here that these facilities can be built as planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. I mentioned two projects earlier, and I should like to present them both a little bit more precisely. In fact, there are two problems that you all know very well, only some of you may not even know that you have met them. The first - both of these projects, among us, are essentially negligible compared to most of the costs in the state budget, because it is higher for the good of €2 million, and the smaller does not even reach €1 million, €971,000, if I am precise. In fact, they are linked to communications between the highway at the lower end of Gorenjska and other congregations. The first begins in the Municipality of Kranj and takes place in the municipality of Kranj and then goes to Hotemaž in the municipality of Predvor. You all know the story when you drive to the Hill and suddenly the road ends, so it ends up in a pile of sand and it has to be done rectangularly so that you don't end up in that pile of sand. If you come from the other side, from Lake Down, the story in Hotemazh is exactly the same. There are approximately 3 kilometers of roads missing in between. The story has been true since 1981 and is record-breaking in many ways. This is the oldest unfinished road project in Slovenia. You can check this information peacefully. It was not finished because there was a commotion at the time, people argued because the party intervened, in particular one was very active in this, and it all ended with judicial proceedings. Therefore, this project was not continued at the time. Then it was put down and put off and put off and put off. At that time, it happened - what? Traffic has increased gradually. The road that was once built, even during World War II for several cars and possibly for any car or truck, began to consume not only traffic throughout this region, but even interstate traffic, as this road leads to the Jezersko border crossing in the long run. Because there between Hotemažam and Britof these three kilometres of traffic is compressed in the village, where the road is adapted to another especially time, regardless of the fact that it is now asphalted, equipped, with sidewalks, it is an absolutely narrow road, and above all there are direct exits for the pedestrians. And what was going on? A few - you can check the number of cases of individual family tragedies, in particular an extremely large number of transported, fatally injured or permanently disabled children. A well-known case is just a few years ago - I think eight, nine years now is already this - it was a real tragedy when someone "cut off" a group of five children, in one accident and so on and so on. There's as many of those cases as you want. On the poor three kilometers of the road! This road is interesting because there's no undercarriage, no larger intersection, no tunnel, nothing. It would be enough just a little good will, machines, land purchases, act spraying - and it can be done in a moment's notice. A little snack. So, what happened during the previous government? I've been forcing the story from the beginning. I met the comments of the people from the administration: you know, the drafting of the acts takes time. It takes four to five years for the state to handle this. We can't handle this, it's not as easy as you imagine. I've contacted the mayors of the municipalities. You will not believe it, the Municipality of Kranj first and then - the key part, the essential part, the central part - the Municipality of Šenčur took care of their expenses, for themselves, for all the acts, took care of all the permits, everything arranged in an incredibly short time. If it's will and the forces are joined together, it's the way. And in the budgets for the next two years, funds were provided for the construction of the road. At this time, redemptions have taken place, both key problems, namely, that two houses have grown on the path of the future road, have already been resolved, contracts are already being signed there. And what happened this year? In the second balance of the budget, there has been a smaller redeployment, that there has been no more money in two, but it has been allocated for three years, which is not really a problem, since we all know this story so that certain works can be done early and paid for next year, and the matter remains viable as soon as possible. Now it's suddenly moving away for a period there from 2014 to 2017 and so on. In short, literally in the ridicule of the entire mountain region; to all those who have experienced personal tragedies there; to all those who have relied on this road to give new impetus to the development of this work, including tourism. After all, Lake without this part of the road is still a relatively distant part of Gorenjska, and Predvor is also a real undiscovered gem; and he could also mention it. And suddenly people's security is not the first, suddenly it's irrelevant that it's a development project, that it's also a strategic project, because it's a link to a neighbouring country, and suddenly all of this is being pushed away into a bright future because it's a political decision by a ruling coalition. Personally, I hope that the Gorenjeks are here to consider this decision and that this amendment will be supported. As it is said, it is a minimum of resources that can be obtained easily within the Ministry's own lines. However, if someone thinks that a resource solution is not properly found, then the Government may, when it wants to, find other sources of funds, if this amendment is put to the vote, find no further problem. A similar problem is the second amendment, that's the third one on the list. In fact, that's where it's going, simply put, to build a circle in Shenchure. You've all driven from the highway to Brnik, you know that in the middle of the road it's been rebuilt with some plastic and that the nonstop trucks and a large number of vehicles across the road are involved on the road or now the asphalt is temporarily laid over there. However, it is not possible for both directional bending and, of course, the matter is extremely dangerous because there is virtually impregnable space there. There, too, was taken care of all the acts, even there, the congregation contributed part of the land, was provided for redemptions, everything was arranged, only suddenly someone moved the building, which, of course, after the acts already adopted, was foreseen for the following year, some time after 2010. Only by chance are the local elections and the mayor is a member of the SDS, this is of course a pure coincidence and it is clear to me also what this story is about. This is a problem that will also open up to the public. I don't know why these things have to be handled like this. After all, you all swear on the developmental orientation of this budget, it is already about a thousand people employed, it will be two thousand in a short time and it is the safety of all those travelling on the route – the Brnik airport. The airport Brnik, together with the corresponding structure, represents the strategic development project of Slovenia. This is said to be clear that infrastructure regulation for this project is equally important, so building this circular is also of strategic development importance for Gorenjska and also for the whole of Slovenia, as only Brno airport with infrastructure is a state strategic development project. That's saying, there's no reason for this thing to move back into the future. I propose that you confirm the amendments with which we are merely returning the situation, as in the second balance of the budget, which you yourself have proposed and confirmed in this same year. It is easy to make matters happen and therefore it is only a matter of political will. It will also be interesting to see how MEPs and Members will vote on these issues, and we will see who is Gorenjec and who is not in his heart.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I will repeat once again what I have said before. In this country we have 6,000 kilometers of state roads, about half of which are in poor condition. In the previous term, you have made a huge contribution to state roads, and this government is continuing with this policy, because I think it is good, as I have said before. And we didn't delete any projects, and we didn't delete any projects! Only some have moved to the future. Once again, I would like to say that I would like transparency in which sections to build, which they do not. You have repeatedly appealed to the Upper House Members. You are a Member of the whole of Slovenia, not only the Gornji region. That's what it says in the constitution. I am also Minister for the whole Republic of Slovenia, and I am also trying to do so. When we had to cut funds, we had to move some projects a little further into the future. However, I will advocate that we will improve state transport infrastructure not only on the highway but on state roads as soon as possible. But the small one is as big as it is. Maybe an hour or two ago you attacked what a huge budget deficit we have. If these millions, over 200 million, had been withdrawn for state roads, the state budget would have been better, it would have had fewer deficits. We were just chasing the balance between what was possible and what was not possible. What we are going to do next year is not you in the previous term, but we are going to do a transparent reconstruction of state roads. And transparent renewal means you have the criteria because we don't have the criteria today. You, for example, represent a region and talk about how important these roads are. What about that region that doesn't have any Members here? For example, a larger area does not have its own Member and their voice in the National Assembly is not represented. Don't those roads matter or what? Of course they're important! But if we don't have the criteria, then we won't be able to reach this sort of order that's crucial, and this moment is the order that works according to the best professional power of my colleagues. I confirm them, as I'm told. However, believe that the criteria will be very transparent and clear in the coming year.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I must say that I fully agree with the views that the Minister has just expressed. In this country, it is necessary to make this story equally transparent for all, to set criteria, to give a real assessment of which road is truly the most important, not which has the political greatest support. However, I am appalled because in the 2009 budget rebalancing, these roads were in there, but those who advocated them today were at that time opposed, and the 2009 budget rebalancing was not supported. Apparently, it's just political conjecture and sedition.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr. Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary. With these amendments, the government deficit does not increase, but matters simply shift from material costs to investments. I also propose one amendment for a region that does not have a Member. By the way, I propose the Old Log Oblast with the Municipality of Kočevje. It's a project where it hasn't finished, about 20 years old, and I think it's right that this section should be completed. The second thing, the second amendment I propose on roads, is, and these are resources on the 3rd a development axis, at such an important section as the section on Škofljica, the Oblast of Škofljica. This is actually one of the biggest stoppers in the Republic of Slovenia. All those who listen to the morning program always report limitations. Unfortunately, the previous amendment coalition, on which it has hung all additional projects and all complementary programmes in the national highway construction programme, has circumcised this amendment with Natura 2000. I think it would be right for the coalition to correct this error, to provide additional funds and activities for the construction of this section, which collects as much as one highway section, one tunnel pipe at the Small Top, to build this issue as well. And: accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u198	Just one sentence, Mr. Wlačič. The construction of the development centre at the airport is all-Slovenian importance, the connection with the state of Austria is all-Slovenian importance and, above all, the safety of children as the highest value is, in my firm belief, also all-Slovenian importance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u199	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this user? Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u200	It's the same thing again. I understand and believe that a lot of things have been done either by Mr Grims or by Mr Tanko. For incomprehensible reasons. Let's just say that I've been following this thing for several decades, and it's not clear to me from year to year how something happens, but something can't happen for years and years. I completely agree here. There are specific people who draw this, write that say every year that there are no projects, and then say, order this year's projects, and we get to the second year, say again that there are no projects, and so on; or any other excuse. Of course, there will never be enough money in this item and we will never hit on all the criteria, traffic safety, economic interest and even a number of things to say, but that is the most right thing to do first and foremost. But it would be good if all these parameters were aligned. Of course, the same story bothers me again. The material costs of the judiciary and virtually all these amendments - except one from the Ministry of Finance - are all from the judiciary. It can't be! I believe that, as previously said, more or less everyone in the judiciary, I am not talking about the amendment that you, Mr Grims, have been talking about, but I am talking about all of these. [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] He's one, not all of them. [[...]] He's one of the financiers. But if you look at the others, you can see: coordination of the Supreme Court, then you have coordination of another court, higher and so on, and it bothers me in these debates. I believe that even if we focus on this justice, we will also eliminate one part of what we, politicians, not only probably Members, including ministers and other politicians, are being read by the judges, the judiciary and I do not know which of us, as you say, to contribute constantly to some of the pay discussions, their sacrifice, their non-action to contribute to the low level of justice. I don't want that, and even when it's somehow implied that money within this system is too much and that it's easy to redistribute to another item, it seems to me that there's too much interpretation and justification. That is why these amendments, which in this way interfere with and redistribute, although I believe that something can also be redistributed from which item, but I do not believe that as much as it is, and in this way as it is overlooked in these amendments. That's why I can't support these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u201	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads? Can I help you, Mrs. Brunskol? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I very much like that there is now so much support from all colleagues in relation to the third development axis, the southern part. In fact, in recent times, most of the time I have voted as the one who also has the opportunity to drive daily on not the third development axis, but on the state road to the White Country. Apparently, now, when the 2010 budget is adopted in some way, it is also quite pleasing that this matter is now being strongly proposed and mentioned. I believe, however, that from everything that has already been said by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by Dr Patrick Vlačič, it is extremely clear that projects of the third development axis, the southern part, are preparing and will certainly be here, even in the light of the conclusions of the Government and the unification of the southern part of the third development axis, that is, with Dolenjska, White Krajina - and as I have repeatedly said, not only is the problem of Bela Krajina, also Dolenjska, which has a strong economy, including the largest Slovenian exporter Revoz, has no quality, so to say, bonds. At least - at all the other major city centres, the budget of the previous government has included or anticipated funds for additional parcels. So in some places I'm almost in the dilemma of whether so much negotiation is necessary, but experts already know it best. However, I am sorry that my colleagues who are now in the opposition did not express this support to a greater extent at the time, because even when the current opposition was in the government, I have pointed to this point - all three Belarusian mayors. I must say here that my fellow Member, Mr Radovan Žerjav, here certainly had a hearing for the Belarusian problems and he also accepted us all three Belarusian mayors at the time, ordering colleagues to prepare documentation. I admit, Mr Žerjav, I see that you can hear me, and yet, unfortunately, it didn't go any further, at one of the meetings you did it very much, so I would say, a little more emotionally that you, what you had, what was in your power, went well, you did. I'll give you that, but unfortunately it didn't go any further. Now, however, I am concerned that the European funds may not benefit so much, but this government cannot be to blame for all of this. However, I am sorry that my colleagues did not support this matter to a greater extent when there was a lot of money at the time. I think the colleague who went there, who was also in the Department of Transport, agrees with me. Therefore, I believe that it is necessary to be correct and realistic here. However, I certainly support that the third development axis, the southern part, is carried out as soon as possible, mainly due to the unification of both policies and economies. Today was the first debate of all White Country economists and politicians, the third development axis, the southern part, that is to say that I should also re-emphasize here in the National Assembly - I did not know that I would be able to talk about this again today. I support the third development axis project, but I also trust the Ministry of Transport, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance to carry out these matters in such a way that the financial frameworks are appropriate, at the same time as the time component of the documentation preparation. Therefore, not only would I like to see some amendments tabled here, but they are also realistic, in line with the deadline for preparing documentation, buying up land and so on. There will also be budget rebalans, and if necessary, I believe that opposition support will be here, which I am pleased to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u203	Thank you. Anything else on the roads? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving to the user of the Directorate for Investment Management in Public Railway Infrastructure, which is an amendment to the sub-programme of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Brunskola, physical support is also needed in addition to verbal support. But it's not enough for just one key to press, but there's something else that needs to be done. Since you have a majority, I hope you will provide appropriate support. As far as the railway is concerned, this is the Grosuplje-Kočev line. He shared it in construction near Ortnek. Unfortunately, the funds under this heading have been reduced and we are only returning to this project the funds already provided by the previous budget and also by the Act on the accelerated construction of railways in 2006. However, I would like to say here that with this amendment, which we have tabled, we also propose that this route be renewed to Kočev to train for passenger and freight traffic at relatively high speeds up to 120 kilometres. We also propose that, Mrs Brunskole, this line from Kočev connects to Črnomelj, so that we get a circle and that this line is actually placed in the right position. I hope you will also support this project in the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u205	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this user? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving to the user Ministry of Environment and Space, which is a sub-programme for improving the state of the environment. Here we have 10 amendments, 5 amendments proposed by the Slovenian People's Party and 5 by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Verlich, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I want to explain the amendment referred to in number 8. With the proposed amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we propose an increase of €10 million for the so-called project of decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water at the centre of central and upper Ljubljana, namely Clean Ljubljanica. In fact, we followed this call from the mayors from this area, namely the mayors and municipalities of Borovnice, Brezovice, Cerknice, Logatca, Pivke, Postojna, Škofljice and Vrhnike. All of these congregations have already devoted a great deal of resources to projects and also to time. These projects have been carried out by the municipalities for more than three years, and they also involve drawing on European funds of 60%. How these municipalities will help meet the legal obligations regarding the operation of the municipal infrastructure, how they will additionally connect the population, if this money is not available, I do not understand. By 2015, this project has affected as many as 14,000 new people who will not be connected to the relevant municipal infrastructure. I am so much more surprised, because on the Committee on Environment and Space, where Mr Kus, the Secretary of State, participated, I raised this same question in the budget debate, because the mayors often addressed the Ministry of Environment and Space and received positive signals and answers from there, and today there is also a beautiful article in the Journal, and I have received a short and concise answer that cheered me up. Let me quote him: "The meetings on this subject have taken place, so we are aware that this has somehow fallen out. And it is right, and, of course, we will consider what and what this amendment is, so that it is properly included in the budget." So short on that. And - nothing. The project is out, the project is completely out. And if we were talking about these relations between mayors and MPs before the Minister of Transport, which unfortunately has already left, it is true that the mayors, who could have told them that not all options belong, but let us leave it because there is also the municipality of Cerknica, and we know that the mayor who has run for Social Democrats, but whatever. 14,000 people will be without a project, a European project for which a lot of funding has been invested and for which the Secretary of State has provided adequate support to the Committee on Environment and Space. How's that? How come this project's gone now? Why isn't he here? In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we propose to support at least European projects to build municipal infrastructure because it is a serious problem. But now that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group proposes this, there is a little more laughter on the other side. I don't know, at least explain to the mayor of Cerknica if you can't explain it. However, I am also counting on the fact that the Secretary of State is a person representing the Government who probably says something credible on the Committee that at least this error will be corrected if he has already said that this will be corrected properly in the budget, the Basin of the Upper Ljubljana can indeed bear the name Pure Ljubljanica and that the inhabitants of these municipalities will be able to carry out the European project. Attention, it's eight congregations! I suggest we support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u207	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Tanko? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr President. Look, we've come up with a debate on amendments in different areas. Before that, the Minister of Transport had in no way justified the amendment that we had put into the railway project. We are now considering amendments in the field of environment and space, and there is no one in the National Assembly in this area who would participate in the explanation and justify, defend or say that these amendments cannot be accepted. I think that the continuation of the debate on the amendments in a way that is not available now, but the Minister of Finance probably has no answers to all the details, including the professional ones for which these amendments are proposed, I propose that you ensure that the relevant representatives of the Government from individual departments come in and that the amendments tabled are properly debated in order to face the arguments for and against telling why some amendments or none, as I see from this, are not acceptable - but in no way do they increase the public financial deficit, in any way weaken the situation or consumption in 2010. However, these are significant shifts from consumption-related items to investment items. Even in these specific environmental situations. My colleague Verlič said that the municipalities were prepared for money, that they had projects, and that in some unwarranted way they had dropped out of some cases. This would be very interesting to say and hear the reasons of the Minister for Environment and Space or its Secretary of State, why this is happening and why it is not possible to approach projects in the field of the environment. Why not?Oh, my God! I think that with some general answer, as it is written here in two three sentences, there is no way to answer that. And, Madam Vice-President, I propose that we end this point at this stage, stop it in 15 minutes and ensure that representatives of the Government, who are in line to explain the individual amendments and also to define the individual amendments, come here. Here we have, say, the Ministry of Higher Education, the Ministry of Education, we have the Ministry of Health, and none of the representatives of these departments are here. I think it's very unhygienic, that [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Members are debated, we justify the reasons and there is no interlocutor on the other hand. [[...]] I propose a 15-minute suspension and that appropriate government-level interlocutors be provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u209	Thank you. The fact that the relevant ministers are not present points to the government's attitude towards Parliament, which we know, throughout all mandates, as it is. However, the Minister of Finance is present and can also perform on behalf of the Government. You have the floor, please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u210	Thank you very much. I must tell the High Council that the water rehabilitation project in the Ljubljana basin is one of the priorities and will be carried out in accordance with and taking into account the expected dynamics in the implementation of these investments and in the light of the relevant location and construction permits. If this is established, it will also be involved in funding through competition in relevant European funds projects. And if it turns out that he's mature, if I can use that term, if it turns out that he has all the right permissions, then in this context there will also be a priority over those who do not yet have certain permits. The Ministry of the Environment and Space varies to some extent between the partial implementation of individual sections of the modernisation of water supply and the full implementation in one stroke. However, I think it is precisely because of the complications of putting individual projects into space that some shorter sections will also need to be implemented. Even if the entire project is not allowed to reach the level of construction, the capacity to build will also start at certain sections where it makes sense. It's okay not to do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u211	Thank you. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u212	I hope I have the floor. Dear President! I must say again that I propose that we suspend this meeting for 15 minutes, that the relevant Government interlocutors come and that the questions raised and the arguments put forward by the Members who have proposed the individual amendments also be explained accordingly. At the point of view, we cannot discuss the sections of roads or anything else that the Minister of Finance has now responded to. We are discussing environmental problems, environmental content, and I propose that you suspend the meeting and that the relevant representatives of the individual departments who will be able to explain it properly explain the details to which individual amendments also apply. We cannot satisfy ourselves with some general answer. We have held a general debate on individual issues. There was no distinguished Minister then, he was only at the introductory and later nothing more. We are now discussing specific issues. We can only discuss specific matters with people who know these specific things. I cannot discuss with the Minister of Finance whether some funds are needed for the lake in Kočev, such as the amendment, or whether these funds are not needed. We will be able to talk about the content, the purpose, the development of the project, the rehabilitation of the project, not some, I don't know, third issues. Therefore, I also propose that we ensure proper communication with the Members who have proposed these amendments. Our proposal is more than justifiable. For each area in the budget, the government has proposed a team by sector, minister and secretary of state, and I propose that we also build up on these specific issues. That general part of the debate can be answered by ministers as they think it is right, but in these specific matters we really want to get concrete interlocutors to get the right answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u213	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you want a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I must tell the High Council that we have two such cases. In addition to the rehabilitation of water supply in the Ljubljana area, it is also a pomur water supply. In both cases, it is a relationship where the bulk of the investment is in an unstartable state, either there are no location permits, building permits, or there is no relevant project documentation. This documentation is being prepared. Where, in some area, this documentation is, at a shorter part of this pipeline, such documentation or if any water capture is to be regulated, in this case European funds may be released for this purpose in accordance with the relevant regulation. It's called the invitations and so on. There's no problem. Another time. The government's views on the amendments are written down, and anyone can read them. But if you want, in addition, of course, I can also make an extra comment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u215	Mr Minister, your answer was really far from the issue I know, so I am adjourning the meeting in 15 minutes and I ask that, if not already Minister of Environment and Space, at least Mr Zoran Kus, the Secretary of State, who is nearby, join us. We'll continue the meeting at 9:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u216	The vacation's over. We're continuing our session. We are with the user Ministry of Environment and Space, Subprogramme Environmental Improvement. Anybody want a word? Please, Secretary of State Kus.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u217	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Cohesion projects are very difficult projects and are very large. Therefore, when preparing the budget, it was necessary to seriously consider which projects could be put into the 2010 and 2011 budget and which projects were not in such a state of readiness to be included in the budget at this stage. We have undertaken a serious review and serious selection and have included the maximum number of projects already with development programmes for 2010 and 2011. In fact, we are now in such a stage that new additional projects are somehow not possible to be introduced between the NRPs for 2010 and 2011 and we are waiting for them to reach that level of readiness so that they can be included in the budget later in the year. Among such projects is the Clean Ljubljana project, which is already in a very high level of readiness, but is not yet included in the budget, we will include it and we will include it as soon as it is ready for the phase during the year when we can include it. During the year, it also appears that some projects then take place faster, some slower. And it's precisely because of this dynamic that you can't exactly plan 100%. This is in that phase, in that part of the preparation, when we include it immediately, when the level of preparedness is such that we can include it with an additional NRP during the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u218	Thank you very much. The word is given by Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u219	In coordinating the preparation of the budget, it has been quite clear to me that the Clean Ljubljana project is included in the budget, depending on what Mr State Secretary has said, how he is prepared to start construction works. We will review tomorrow, together with those responsible at the Ministry of Environment and Space, how it is with this project, whether any legal obstacle to the immediate start of the work when the project matures, is said when it has the appropriate building permits. If it turns out that this amendment is even necessary, then we will warn and support the amendment in the vote. The government will support the amendment if it proves necessary. But we don't think so, because as we ordered, this should already be in the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please, Mr. Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u221	Thank you very much. I do not understand this reply from the Secretary of State to this amendment, given the level of willingness of individual projects, to explain. Here I would ask that the representatives of the government explain to me in detail, perhaps it would be good. We are talking about the high level of preparedness of the project, about some level of readiness, about the level of preparedness of the project, because this is very important, and I ask you: How is it possible? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u222	Verlych [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u223	that it can be cleaned [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u224	Will you make a procedural proposal? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u225	No, it's going. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u226	I haven't heard from him yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u227	I would ask that the representative of the Government explain to me because this relates to the amendment tabled by the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u228	This is not a procedural proposal. You have the right to debate and you can give your opinion in the debate. The question alone is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u229	Look, I'd like the meeting to be conducted so that I get the answers to the questions I've been asked. Mr President, the key question is that the Amendment Government has indicated that it is such that it does not accept it because of the different stages of coordination of procedures. And I would ask if you would allow me to get an answer to a key question. This is impossible, for if it has [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u230	Mr Verlich [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u231	Logatec [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u232	The content of the answer is not up to me. [[...]] I'll give every government representative a word. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u233	Look. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u234	But I have no right to ask him. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u235	See if he's got [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u236	to answer exactly what you want. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u237	if it has, if it has a device, if the cleaning plant is in Logatco, it has a building permit and is operational, how is this not yet to draw on European funds. [[...]] Isn't that the highest level of readiness? Mr President, I don't know, I think that at least what it is, it is important to warn the representatives of the Government to answer questions that are crucial, which are also crucial to this amendment. This is probably what we as Members have the right to ask in this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the government want a word? Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u239	As a matter of fact, we're going to look into it. There is a possibility that the government will actually support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u240	I'm opening a debate on the Ministry of the Environment. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u241	Thank you. I just want to offer to the Minister another amendment, because it is a matter that is certainly important for at least the same number of people, and indirectly for Ljubljana, and is certainly more prepared than we have just talked about. This is an amendment to the Gorka project or to the regulation of sewage and sewage treatment plants and certain water pipelines in Gorenjska. I would like to point out that this amendment is partly linked to the amendment, which is otherwise for the next budget and will be discussed tomorrow. This is a total of about EUR 20 million, 17.5 of which is specifically this part, and 2.5 is additional to the water supply in the congregation of Cerklje, which is said to be the regulation of the bloodstream, as it were. It is the share that is necessary to then obtain significantly greater European funds. We all know that cohesion funds are essentially a one-off project that will not last indefinitely but unfortunately for a very short period of time, which is of course of strategic importance. All of these projects have been prepared in Gorenjska for a long period of time, are linked to virtually all municipalities and have also been covered in budgets for the past period, even in the last rebalancing we can still see them. Now it's all gone. When we opened the matter publicly, however, there was information in the supplementary draft or draft budget that made sense to take this into account, whatever that means. Personally, I'm just afraid that this will eventually be born into who's yours, and who's ours, and what project, yes, which one isn't. Therefore, I would like to point out that the Gorka project as a whole is in the interest not only of Gorenjska but also of Ljubljana, because Sava runs through Ljubljana and brings everything with it from Gorenjska, beautiful and beautiful things, and then on, all the way to the Croatian border. For this reason, the ecology of our largest key rivers is even more important. It is also a question of how people feel about the environment and how they feel about the quality of life. For this reason, we have proposed amendments to ensure once again that the necessary share required to obtain these European funds in the NRPs, as already foreseen in the already adopted, has been confirmed in the past period. Things have been in preparation for a long time. As far as I'm aware, I've checked this thoroughly, they're practically ready. That is why there is so much greater negative surprise for everyone, from Jesenic to Cerkelj to Ljubljana, because suddenly these items have disappeared from the plans themselves. And I'm sorry. I don't understand how this is supposed to be followed up. This is a relatively large sum of money, which would, of course, mean that we should operate with several budget rebates, so I personally do not believe very much in the reality of this work, so much the more reasonable expectation is that the environment and the people living here are respected throughout the Sava River and that these two amendments are confirmed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Couss, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. That's all I want to add. A large number of cohesion policy projects must be said to exceed even the available resources by number. That is why we have seriously considered which projects we can give and which we cannot put into the 2010 and 2011 budget. I agree with Minister Križanič that we have spoken at some meetings that we should seriously consider whether the Clean Ljubljana project can be put into the 2010 and 2011 budget. We also discussed this at one of the meetings of the Committee on the Environment and the Assembly. That's when we made a commitment to look at these things. Now, in order to avoid misunderstandings, I would like to continue with what the Minister is, in fact, to conclude that we will take a serious look and that tomorrow we can give a final answer on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u244	Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr President. A brief explanation of the seventh amendment. I propose to include in the amendment a new project for 2010 the regulation of the mine lake in Kočev. It's about content that's important. This is a solution to the environmental problem, and it is also a project with great development potential. And I don't think there should be any problem in providing this initial €50,000 for the start of work on the project. I don't think this can be any problem for a serious government. This would open up the matter and allow the Kočevje municipality, which does not have a Member here today, to start working on some environmental and developmental options that are not yet fully exploited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u246	Mr. Tanko, will you prepare a written proposal? What amendment is that?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u247	Amendment number seven.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u248	Seven? Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u249	Procedural proposal, Mr President. Could you please lead the meeting by at least asking the government representatives present to answer the questions raised? I have asked specific questions about a project, as well as how they will implement their forecast that this will be taken into account meaningfully and how they will complement it within the framework of the budget, if this requires new and new rebalancies. Then there was an answer regarding Ljubljana, which we certainly did not talk about at that time, but it was already another answer, which had already been given. Please let them respond to what we talked about, because with all due respect to Ljubljana, Sava is still the most important Slovenian river, even running, by the way, through Ljubljana, if anyone has not noticed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. Does the representative of the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] You don't want a word from the government, Mr Grimes. I can't force them to do that. Mr. Tanko, what will be your procedural proposal? Tell him about the beginning, not the end. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u251	Dear President! I would also like an answer to my explanation for amendment number seven. It is the opening of a new project, as I explained earlier in my explanation, for the mining lake project in Kočev, it is the watering of a daily bath in Kočev, where most of this area is environmentally unregulated, is in the process of growing up. I have proposed that we provide at least these initial funds for a new budget item to ensure, on the one hand, the arrangements of this lake, which is relatively large, and thus allow for further development in this area. Unfortunately, the government's representatives are not listening now, so when there is no longer a chance to get an answer to regular questions, we need to use procedural questions and procedural proposals to then get an answer to the questions raised. I think that the €50,000 opening of the new budget line is no problem to start this initial work in 2010 for the preparation of documentation, arrangements, for the necessary calls and other necessary matters. I think in the coalition we should support such an amendment with our left hand. This should not present any substantive, procedural or other problems. The development of an area isn't just about having an MP somewhere, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u252	Mr Tanko, this is no longer a procedural proposal, but a substantive debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u253	Of course it was, but apparently they didn't listen to the content of the explanation before, so there wasn't any. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u254	you have provided a substantive explanation [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u255	there was no answer and now, if I want to procedurally request their answers, at least I have to re-explain the matter so that I can expect this necessary answer. [[..]] I propose, honourable representatives of the Government, Mr Minister and Mr Secretary of State, that you define yourself to this proposal. I believe that such a flat-rate approach as you have taken in explanation for all the amendments that have been tabled cannot be sustained. It is necessary to define up to the content, to the specific problem and to look at it. whether or not the case with the proposal as it was transmitted is a viable one. My opinion is that this is possible. I now also expect the Government's representative to justify whether the amendment is acceptable or not and, above all, what they will do next in this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr Tanko, I would like to get an answer that will satisfy you, but you have not made a procedural proposal and have violated the rules of procedure in this part. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u257	At this stage of budget planning, I can say for both of them, for this smaller project as well as for this larger rehabilitation of the Sava basin, or water supply and drainage of municipal waters in the Sava basin, that this will have to be included in the budget planning in the coming years. For 2011, we will have to start working so intensively after April, after the first fiscal world report. I think that this is now the first step to turn this on and that these things are later being remedied.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u258	Anyone else want a word? [[Not]] . We are moving to a discussion on the user of the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, sub-programme Planning, water protection and water management. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are transferring to the user the Ministry of Health, sub-programme Health in demographically endangered areas. Anybody want a word? Please, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u259	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party has repeatedly pointed out in the 2009 budget rebalancing the problem in the demographicly threatened areas that the funds are in fact being cut down or removed from the budget, because these areas are already affected by the financial economic crisis and it would be very, very uncomfortable for them to be deprived of the funds that provide them with better health care. Since the government has not foreseen any financial resources for 2010, the Slovenian Democratic Party is proposing this amendment so that people who are already affected are not yet limited to providing health care, which is more than strictly necessary in such areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Krizanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u261	Your Honor! Let me read it. In the context of sub-programme 17012702, Health Care in Demographicly Emerged Areas, in the past there has been a budget item "demographically threatened areas" designed to provide complementary resources for the smooth functioning of the on-call and rescue service in demographically threatened areas. It complemented the financing of the 1996 Emergency Medical Regulation. In 2008, a new regulation on emergency medical care was adopted, which regulated the organisational and financial field of emergency medical care in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Additional funding amounting to EUR 2 million was provided for the implementation of emergency medical assistance in accordance with the new Regulation, which is also provided below for 2009. It follows from the above that the emergency medical service is now adequately and 100% funded, which makes the budget line "demographically endangered areas" no longer reflect its original destination.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the user Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Higher Education. Anybody want a word? Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u263	Thank you very much. I didn't want to replicate the Minister's previous amendment before, because I'd run out of time for that. Here, however, is essentially evidence of this wide-ranging ministry of higher education and also of the coalition, how much funding is allocated in the 2010 budget for science and development and the development of higher education. The amendment that we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in the amount of €150,000, would be intended to prepare documentation to ensure that the space situation is regulated in New Town, where we have a university of state, which means that certain projects will be prepared, which will also provide the space that is needed for the development of higher education in a longer period. It has been heard several times why we did not provide this in the previous term. In the previous term, we immediately set up a university when conditions were created for this, as far as content is concerned. When the content was accredited, we also set up a university and expected this development to continue in this mandate. It was also signed in the previous mandate a letter on the intention between the Municipality of Novo mesto and also the Ministry of Higher Education, where it would work together to provide land, municipally equipped land and infrastructure for the development of this university, and also all those who will come. And right now, it was in agreement with the dean that the 150,000 euros would be sufficient for the documentation to begin in the coming year, which would allow this infrastructure, which is more than strictly necessary, to be built here in the coming years. However, it is stated in the explanatory statement that this is unjustifiable, that the current situation or spatial situation, given the number of student enrolments, makes it possible, but that is far from true. All the places of registration that this university has tendered in 2009 at three stages have been completed. If we were admissions, there'd be more. It means that, in fact, with spatial constraints, students are also limited, because in this part of Slovenia such studies of information technologies are more than promising, promising, so I think it would be right for the Government to listen and provide minimum resources, 150,000 euros is not a lot of resources to allow us to go to the documentation to get these needed spaces. I hope that the coalition, and above all the government, will agree that this amendment is also supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance, Dr. Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u265	Dear High Council! Let me read the answer. To the proposal for a decree establishing a separate higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town of 8. 5. 2008 It was pointed out that it was temporarily possible to implement the teaching process appropriately with the use of the School of Grm, Novo mesto, Centre of Biotechnics and Tourism in Nova mesto. The spatial problem can then be fully settled as part of the planning for the construction of the Novo Mesto University campus, which is planned by the Municipality of Novo Mesto. Since the preparation of the project for the construction of the University Campus Novo mesto has not yet been presented and the cooperation agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Municipality of Novo mesto is not yet in place, it is estimated that the project is not yet in such a development phase, so that it could be taken into account in 2010 to prepare documentation to provide its own premises for the Faculty of Information Studies in Nova mesto, and therefore it was not possible to assess the costs. The construction of new premises of public higher education institutions shall be financed in accordance with the investment programme, taking into account also the order according to the possibility or the necessary provision of appropriate premises. A review of the enrolment numbers of students at the Faculty of Information Studies in Nové Mesto shows that the construction of the new premises of the Faculty of Information in Novi Mesto is not yet justified or that public higher education institutions are with a much greater spatial distress, which needs to be addressed as a priority. Funds for higher education libraries are additionally planned to finance the University of Primorska University Library, which is under development. The Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education has already given a positive opinion on the creation of another member of the University of Primorsk, and therefore it is not possible to reduce these resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u266	Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary. What they have prepared for you at the Ministry of Higher Education does not, of course, reflect the actual situation. As a member of the municipality of Novo mesto, I am very well aware of the stage in which the documentation for the campus is being prepared. It's been going on for five years. It is true that the elections in last year and the change of power have caused some stagnation. There was a signed letter of intent, there were a lot of arrangements here to join together in building a campus and also a dormitory. That is why I think that these 150 000 euros would now be more than justifiable to contribute here if the situation dictates that precisely this documentation should begin to be prepared. As for the finding that the currently registered places are somewhere comparable to those needs, see, the number of registered places is essentially limited in relation to the spatial possibilities we have. If there were more spatial possibilities, more would be included. This amendment, believe me, is justified and I expect the government and coalition to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I conclude the debate on this amendment. We are transferring to the user the Ministry of Education and Sport, sub-programme Vrtci. Two amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u269	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that we are quite alone in the National Assembly, both in the coalition and in the opposition, to lead the debate in a way that is now, actually makes no sense. I expect the leadership of the National Assembly for the continuation of the meeting tomorrow to provide the competent interlocutors for this general part of the 2011 budget also for the debate on the amendments. I don't think there's any need for anyone to read to us the government explanations of the amendments literally as they were written. I think we need to open a debate here. And in the event that the leadership of the National Assembly, here I appeal to the President of the National Assembly, Mr Gantar, will not be able to provide competent interlocutors for tomorrow's debate, I propose that we postpone this part of the meeting to a more appropriate date when the representatives of the Government will have the will, ambition and also the time to come to the National Assembly and to Members who are just trying to explain why some things are not possible, why some others are possible and so on. I propose, Madam President, that you do all you can to ensure that the actual debate takes place as it is necessary for the National Assembly, as it is appropriate for this High Assembly, as the President of the Government says. I think that on the other hand there must be those interlocutors who represent individual departments who know the content and the details so that we can have a discussion at all in some way. We, with some flat-rate answers, certainly cannot be satisfied with amendments that deal with specific or specific areas. And at the very least, it is to provide an appropriate set of ministers, secretaries of state, those authorized by the Government. However, I think there is really no point in the State Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia thus putting themselves in the teeth of the citizens who have elected us, because in this way the National Assembly is not at all able to carry out its tasks. It is said that there is a high-quality debate on government materials in this National Assembly to confront opinions, not only those within the coalition, but also those who, on the other hand, do not have a prior chance of participating in budgeting. If you do not guarantee this, then it is better that you give prior vacations to the National Assembly. But if you continue to do so, then at least I suggest you call the Government from exile or from, I don't know where it is that it's coming in here and explaining and commenting and defending the things it's prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-11.ana.u270	Mr. Tanko, thank you very much. That's a suggestion. I ask Dr. Križanič to inform the President of the Government. Mr President of the National Assembly is here and has heard your call. He will certainly point out, on behalf of the National Assembly, that expectations are that, as far as possible, government representatives will be present in the context of the management of the budgetary debate, who may be able to give appropriate answers. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the primary school subroutine. Two amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I'm moving to the high school subroutine. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are transferring to the user the Ministry of Culture, a sub-programme of Investment in Culture. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I also conclude this debate on the amendments tabled to the specific part of the budget. Anybody else want to talk about this job? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The vote on the amendments, on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget, will be held on Wednesday, 25 November, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We are moving on to a debate on the development programme plan. Does anyone want to discuss the development agenda plan? [[He doesn't want to.]] Nobody wants to discuss it anymore, I'm closing the debate. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will be held on Wednesday, 25 November 2009, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 11th meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9:00. Thank you very much.
