ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 10th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Members and Members of Parliament: Silva Črnugelj from 17th to 19th hours, mag. Vasja Klavora from 9 a.m. to 14 p.m., Anton Urh from 9 a.m. to 14 p.m., Dr. Laszlo Göncz from 17 a.m., mag. Andrea Richter, mag. Anton Rop and Miran Jerič. At the meeting, I invited representatives of the Government to all the agenda items. I welcome everyone here. You received the draft agenda by reference to the sitting on 18 May. If you have a procedural procedure, I'll give you a procedural order after the agenda is set. You received the draft agenda by reference to the sitting on 18 May. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of the item and for the extension of the agenda, so we are moving on to the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference. We're moving to the vote. Well, I'll procedurally give it to you as soon as the agenda is passed. Before that, no procedural question is even relevant because we do not have a meeting because we do not have a specific agenda. So, we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are only 44 Members present. We will therefore repeat the vote. Dear Members and Members, we turn to the vote on the agenda of today's 10th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, for 50, for 3. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the agenda of the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. Mr. Tanko, you have procedural procedures. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Apparently, there is a great deal of unrest in the coalition, even before I sign up for the word, observations are flying, and they also prevent a proper presentation of the proposal. See, now we have got a whole bunch of materials on the table to various agenda items, especially extensive materials to point 1, and given that these materials could not be verified, I suggest you give us 45 minutes to review the government's materials, to make them known that you have clearly prepared them as an answer or as a view to proposals, a proposal that we have tabled correctly and in good time ten, fourteen days ago in the legislative process. And at the very least, I think it is necessary to conduct the debate properly, in order for us to participate and look at what you wrote in this material to order us this break. Because otherwise we see it as a diversion to point one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I cannot take your proposal into account or put it to the vote. You may request such a suspension immediately before the vote. Today, a meeting is necessary and the deadlines for proposing the material are not applicable for an urgent meeting. The material can be submitted directly to the bench and I think that there will be plenty of time in the course of the discussions for you to get to know and respond appropriately to the material given. Thank you very much. Procedural again. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u4	Thank you very much. First of all, I must protest against such a decision, which is completely logical and normal. If anyone in the National Assembly is able to obtain this material on the table and assess it in the debate and determine whether it is possible on the basis of this and what we have proposed to lead the debate, then it is probably only the Government. And a government coalition because they have supernatural abilities. We need, in the Group of Members, a time to take a look at this, to get acquainted with the material, to see what proposals are proposed, and I think that this is a minimum standard for members of the National Assembly to participate in the meeting of the National Assembly at all. How to discuss something that has 100 pages, one set of tables, one set of findings, one bunch of records and ask us to discuss it qualitatively and determine whether or not they hold it. Mr President, the minimum is to order us to take a break, to quickly review the material and prepare for it. Because this is obviously a government proposal, which also needs to be reviewed and also examined. I ask you kindly, I propose 45 minutes for the Group of Members to examine the material in the Group and get to know it. And I don't think it's destroying absolutely anything, no democratic standards. However, it is part of a set of coalition relations, government relations with the National Assembly, and especially those in the National Assembly, which were not able to obtain this material before yesterday, they simply did not. I think that's the minimum you can guarantee. But we should probably take a longer break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I'm sure your content reasons hold in this sense, so I'm going to order a break. But I'm just asking, is 30 minutes enough because we have a very tense worker, or do you want 45? So 45 minutes. We'll start at 9.55. I'm adjourning until 9.55.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u6	Dear colleagues and fellow Members! We continue with the adjourned session. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - On the defence of the proposal for a conclusion in connection with "the package taken to improve the economic and social situation in Slovenia The draft decision was tabled by a group of Members and Members, with first signed by Jozet Tank. You want procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Dear President, Prime Minister, ministers. At this time, we quickly flew over 150 pages of material provided by the Government to us at the table. I must say that the Group of Members has invested in the material process, a package of anti-crisis measures to improve the situation, containing 68 planned measures, and five legislative proposals have also been tabled. Now that, in fact, the fundamental point of yesterday's debates, the ministers of the government at the press conferences were arguing that the measures proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party are not justified, are not justified, have no expected financial implications, would suggest, procedurally, that, as usual, we should allow these measures to be duly reasoned and suggest that you allow us to present our proposals for a proposal for a package for an exit from the economic situation and, in the case of laws, an appropriate extension of time to present the applicant's views. And I suggest that you allow us 60 minutes instead of five minutes, which actually does not allow any appropriate explanation to be made. I would also like to remind you that it is also in Parliament's practice to date, for example, when we discussed in the previous mandate of inflation measures, where this point was included on the proposal of Mr Školč's first signed Member, there was only ten hours and ten minutes of discussion and of which there was 30 minutes and then 40 minutes of discussion. When we discussed, say, the gas terminals in the Gulf of Piran, the proponent Dr Gantar had an introductory explanation for 40 minutes and for 50 minutes. And we note that these standards have been violated in this mandate. However, the package of anti-crisis measures that we are proposing is significantly more complete, significantly broader and more important for the fate of Slovenia than all the points proposed by Members of the parliamentary groups in the previous term. On this basis, we justify a request for a procedural determination of a different time to present a proposal for a package of measures and, of course, to explain the applicant's additional justification for legislative proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Comrade Tanko, I will not put this proposal to the vote. The fact is, the College has set a timetable. It is a fact that it has been laid down in accordance with the rules with the Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that an extraordinary meeting is held, as was the case in the previous meeting, and that one item is dealt with under the third paragraph of Article 67, and the rest is dealt with under the second paragraph. At the same time, it must also be said that the parliamentary groups themselves could have allocated their time, but at the same time we have opened the first point for discussion, although the Committee's decision was such that we should actually consider this under Article 134, paragraph 3. For this discussion is time 5 hours and 23 minutes and for the entire session with the package is time 17 hours and 30 minutes. I'm sure if we do this responsibly and consciously, there'll be plenty of opportunities for them to explain their things. Last but not least, if this meeting is not able to clear up all the issues, there may also be further meetings, plenary meetings of the National Assembly. That's why I'm just gonna start the session. We're moving on. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on the Economy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a decision is not suitable for further consideration. I give the text first to William Rezman for further explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all - colleagues, colleagues, ministers and ministers. In a short report, I present the work of the Committee, which has held as a working mother within the agreed time limit, and adopted the relevant conclusions. First, let us say that the drafter was signed by 23 Members and Members, that they also requested an extraordinary meeting to be considered at the same time, at which 5 other laws should also be dealt with and that they have provided material which has also been added to it by legislative and legal services. Five ministers and ministers or secretary of state were present on behalf of the Government. Let's write them down: mag. Mitja Gaspari, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Dr. Ivan Svetlik, Dr. Franci Križanič, part of the meeting only Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs and Mag. Helena Kamnar. Representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, all three economic chambers we have in Slovenia, both employers' organisations and two trade unions - independence and free trade unions - also participated. In the introduction, the applicant stressed what they considered to be fundamental. Firstly, the Slovenian economy was in excellent condition before the crisis. Secondly, that the Government has responded to the upcoming crisis inadequately and too slowly and that some international organisations also assess it. Thirdly, that the measures are incomplete, that they do not encourage the economy and that they are actually passive in order to encourage wrongdoing. They themselves have ensured their ambition to participate actively in the crisis resolution proposals. To this end, they have also proposed this proposal for measures and five laws. The second presented her position as a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, who, if I may add briefly, said the following. Firstly, it is only about the proposal for a decision and not about the proposed measures. Secondly, that the adoption of the decision is an eo ipso implicit adoption of the whole package. Thirdly, there is no possibility of affecting changes, additions or abandonment of individual measures. Fourthly, that it is impossible to discuss and define to individual measures, which are even so concrete that it has questioned constitutional adequacy and said that the conclusions are in place so that the Government is left alone to adopt them and set a timetable for implementation. The replies from government representatives were in the sense of either a challenge or a different interpretation of what was said in the introduction, namely that it was found that 2008 was a turning point, the year when negative trends began, to which the current government had not yet had a direct impact. At the discretion of the government's representatives, the condition was average. International organisations do not assess measures as inadequate. Many proposals are already being implemented; some are in preparation for implementation. A third package of measures was presented and a number of other direct responses were still available. We Members have talked about being benevolent to any attempt to help find measures to address the financial and economic crisis. We also welcomed the presence of many representatives of the Government and agreed with the evaluation of the Legal and Legislative Service. Individuals considered that the proposal for measures was, in fact, a marketing move to raise political points and public affection. However, we expressed the view that it was necessary, as well as the representatives of the Chamber, to say that it was necessary to gather strength, sit down for a constructive discussion and also take into account what they had prepared in the context of the SDS Group or their expert council, the party's, to prepare a new package of measures that would help to move as quickly and as quickly as possible from the crisis to the development potential. The Committee’s decision is that the proposal for measures, or decision, is not appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u10	Thank you very much. I give the text to the representative of the proposer of the decision, Janez Janša, for a further explanation of the draft decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u11	Mr. President of the National Assembly. President, members and members of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I think that in the National Assembly, for the first time, it has happened that the proposer of a proposal did not get the floor first. The first was given the floor by the president of the parent working body, who gave an opinion on something that had not yet been presented. It's just as if the court had first read the defense and then the indictment. But it's not the only weird thing about this agenda item. It is far more unusual to have an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, where more than 60 proposals for an exit from the economic crisis tabled by the opposition are being addressed and the Government criticises these proposals. In normal countries, things are the other way around. The government is proposing measures and the opposition is criticising them. The third odd thing about this meeting is that the College, where representatives of government coalition parties voted in, has given us 5 minutes to explain the more than 60 measures. In five minutes, well-respected colleagues and colleagues, I cannot even read these measures. On the other hand, it is clear from the Government that the measures are not sufficiently explained in this material. But you gave us five minutes to further explain them. I will now be forced to use the time of the parliamentary group, which is intended to discuss how to explain these measures. There's a lot of time for this session. But you gave the motioner five minutes for an introductory explanation. For the final word, 30 minutes. You gave the government 40 minutes and 45 minutes for the last answer. So, an unusual situation that is even more unusual in view of the importance of this item on the agenda. When you handed over a debate on the Piran Bay terminals in your previous mandate as the opposition, which is an important issue, but certainly not more important than the Market, which is an important issue, but not more important than what is on the agenda today, the proposed Mr Gantar was given 40 minutes for an introductory explanation when it came to a single question, this is more than 60 measures that should have been explained to me in five minutes. That's not possible. I can only explain why we requested this meeting. This meeting was called for after we waited in March for the so-called key government anti-crisis package of measures, and we did not see that coming. Then came the April meeting of the National Assembly, and on the agenda of this meeting there was not a single strategic measure to respond to the challenges of the economic crisis, not one. And now we are in the middle of a May session where there are a couple of loners, because we are correcting some laws in this regard, but there is no strategic law in this announced third package of measures. That is why we have decided to table five necessary laws ourselves and propose a series of other measures. When we examined these government materials, which came to the table with great delay today, at the treatment of these materials on the home working body, we found that this proposal did encourage the Government that some of the things we are proposing had begun to be implemented at that time, and that we are extremely pleased. The fact that nothing has happened for so long is also due to the fact that the offer first made by the President of the Government at his election, that he will form a broad social and political development partnership, simply does not come true, despite the fact that after we have been waiting for this project for some time on the government side, we have also sent our prepared proposals on what partnership 2 plus 10 would look like for development and a way out of the economic crisis. But of this there is nothing, and today we are in a situation that no other European country knows - the opposition is proposing a package of crisis response measures, and the government is criticising or partially summarizing this package, in that part of which we are pleased. I think it would be good if one of the arrangements for today's session was to do this together in the future, not by turning the situation upside down.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u12	Thank you very much. However, I must point out that the National Assembly, at its plenary session, is bound by the report of the parent working body, which concluded that the proposal for a decision is not suitable for further consideration. This is why the debate was held and is formulated under Article 134, paragraph 3, which means that the groups of Members have the opportunity to present an opinion within a maximum period of 5 minutes. Nevertheless, we have opened this debate and there is a possibility, so it is 5 hours and 53 minutes. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr Borut Pahor, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u13	Mr. President, the National Assembly! Not only to me, the whole government seems to be, and I say this very frankly, very valuable, that we will today for 20 hours, as long as it takes, be more concentrated on how it is so far and how to send Slovenia to action under the conditions of the global recession. To begin with, it would be fair to admit that no one, not the Government or the opposition, is entirely right or completely wrong. That is to say, it shows the recent actions of the National Assembly when Members and Members either accepted government or opposition proposals if you thought they were good for the resolution of this crisis. Some bereaved person might say that the new Slovenian government had this bad luck, that it received responsibility for leading the state right at a time when the conjuncture had become a recession. I would like to say that it was good for Slovenia to have a new Slovenian government at this very time. For the first time since the beginning, this government has understood that the uncertainty that we have discussed before the elections is slowly becoming a crisis and that the crisis is becoming a recession. Secondly, because it has put the problems associated with this crisis at the forefront of its work programme and because, at the same time as the new problems brought about by this crisis, it has decided to solve the accumulated old things as well and, I believe, it is important to stress, it is trying to reconcile the proposals that are coming into the National Assembly, as far as possible, with the social partners. That there will be no misunderstandings, I do not claim that everything we do is right and without problems. The depth of the crisis and the pressures of the people warn us that there is still a lot of work and a lot of dilemma ahead of the government and we want to weigh them together with the opposition. Let me remind you that an oral agreement has been reached on how to take part in overcoming the problems associated with the economic and social crisis, and then there have been some developments in the National Assembly that have somehow cooled this confidence. I would like to see this confidence restored in the future and overcome together the crisis we are facing. As regards the current proposals of the SDS Group. The government estimates that they are currently fiscally unsustainable. In particular, they mean lowering public financial revenues and increasing public financial expenditure. This means that they are increasing the gap between the commitments on the one hand and the sources of their funding, which appear to be one of the key problems facing Slovenia's public finances. We estimate that the measures also do not relate to one another, which would aim in a sufficiently consistent manner at the key problems facing the Slovenian economy. Government administration. I think that the government has responded to the global financial crisis in a timely, unfavourable way to take a whole range of measures. Today, the motioner spoke about proposing 60, about that many of which we have already accepted. Let me just point out here the sets of measures, here are measures of active employment policy, social transfers, tax policy measures, measures to promote the competitiveness of the economy, the development of entrepreneurship, technological development measures, the promotion of the credit market, measures to promote investment in agriculture and the attempt to draw as best as possible from the European Funds. All of this is in your materials, and it is only right that the National Assembly, as well as the Government, take a critical view of these measures in order not to remain in the predominant impression that the Government does not pay enough attention to this, that it is not active, that it has no ideas and that it does not implement them. Finally, let me just say that these measures will also address structural, adaptation, economic and social policies. I also promised development dialogue at the beginning of the mandate, which is taking place. The second conference of this development dialogue will focus on structural reforms. Here we will see how much willingness in this National Assembly will encourage the Government when it proposes measures that are not popular to the social partners, but are essential for Slovenia to come out of this crisis as a winner. Today there's going to be a controversial discussion, let it be. The government is very confident of what it has done. He says quite frankly that he has some dilemmas about how to proceed. So let's hear the suggestions. Having taken them into account, it will also take them into account in future, to the extent that we consider them particularly fiscally sustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u14	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. Ljubo Germič has the word on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u15	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President of the Government. Ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. At the end of the previous government's mandate, when it was clear that the financial crisis at the door of the collision, that the financial crisis would also cover the real sector, i.e. the area of the economy, the former government continued to say that Slovenia will not be deeply affected by these negative trends in the world. Today's situation shows that the assessments at the time were either undervalued or wrong, but it would certainly be if the then government could make some assessments differently, perhaps in a different situation today when we are talking about more than 20% of the decline in industrial production, when we are in a recession where there is a negative macroeconomic situation and a set of reasons that require the active and effective functioning of the Government in the Slovenian space and the engagement of all the potentials that can participate in the search for solutions. In this context, in the LDS Club, we also assess the efforts and proposals of the opposition SDS party to work together to develop certain solutions that would lead to the solution of the situation as quickly as possible. And in this context, we also understand the proposals made by the opposition, i.e. the SDS party, as the subject of today's urgent meeting. Of course, we have examined all these proposals in the LDS Club in detail and at first glance it has created a feeling that they are proposals designed to contribute constructively to overcoming the crisis. Of course, more accurate reading, unfortunately, has shown that we have witnessed stories already known, that we are watching a film that we have already seen and in which the main player experiences the same events every day, over and over again, and that it is always unacceptable to the arguments and that the type of activity proposed has already been carried out, that the type of activity proposed is still incomplete and that the type of proposals proposed has been discussed in the National Assembly and that the arguments have shown that some of the proposals are not good. At the same time, it must be stressed that the opposition is constantly showing the same evidence of how this government does nothing, how it does nothing, how it does not act, how it thinks and how it is incompetent and inexplicable and how there are political structures in Slovenia that can do more and more quickly. The problem is that this is what they tell us when they were in opposition, when they had scissors and canvas in their hands, and their actions were different. Therefore, their initiatives can also be assessed in a different light. We hear evidence of how this government's behaviour will have long-term irreparable consequences in the economic and social sphere and how the delay in adopting the measures proposed by the biggest opposition party will further deepen the economic and social crisis in Slovenia, which will therefore take a substantial longer period than in other European countries. He kept trying to create the impression that the financial economic crisis had arisen in Slovenia. And if we listen to the biggest opposition party, only with this government's performance. As the current government does not act or act too slowly, it is trying to create before the Slovenian public the impression that the opposition is offering all solutions to the crisis situation. However, the reading of the proposed package of measures shows that the measures submitted are unfortunately incomplete. In many cases, they only indicate the direction in which economic policies work, so different interpretations and their implementation are possible, which may have very different public financial implications. However, the proposals are common in that they work in a manner that is pleasing and that they have virtually no analysis that would only make a rational decision. The estimates also show that they are fiscally unsustainable at the moment, as they mainly mean a reduction in public financial revenues and an increase in public financial expenditure. This means that they are increasing the gap between the commitments and the sources of their funding, which has proved to be one of the key problems of public finances in Slovenia in the situation of economic growth. The further weakness of the package submitted also shows that the measures are not fully linked, which would address the key problems facing the Slovenian economy in a comprehensive and consistent manner. According to the LDS Club, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has responded to the global financial and economic crisis, which also affected Slovenia, and has taken a number of measures. Some of these were also listed by the Prime Minister of the Government in his address. If I repeat them, there have been a number of measures in the field of tax policy, promoting competitiveness, the economy and the development of entrepreneurship, technological development measures, promoting the credit market and could still be listed. Unfortunately, I also agree that there was little time for us to fully study the materials that we received on the table. So it's two sets. First - review of the implementation of anti-crisis measures by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Second, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to a defined package by the SDS Group. However, a quick reading of these two documents shows and confirms the facts I was just talking about. As I have already said, a number of proposals in the package are repeated. Among the repeated proposals, I would mention in particular two of the first set of measures relating to the tax area. Thus, the first and second proposals of measures are identical to the content of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, which was submitted by a group of Members and Members to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, with the first-signed Mr Jožet Tank. An identical proposal for a law amending the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons was also submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by a member of mag. Andrej Vizjak, where, in fact, the same proposals are repeated that were not supported in the first proposal. The package of measures now addresses the same proposal for a law or proposals for the same measures are repeated in this document. However, it should be stressed that the Government has also adopted measures in the area of corporate income tax in the framework of a comprehensive set of measures aimed at increasing the liquidity of the economy in the current situation. Thus, the law governing the tax procedure in the work, which provides for tax withdrawals, has been amended and the scope of the amendment is estimated at EUR 50 million. Let me also mention the recast of the VAT law. And if memory doesn't fool me here, the proposal is also tabled for the third time, although it has been repeatedly explained why it is not possible to change this in the given circumstances overnight, not just in terms of financial effects. The analysis of the measures presented in the package presented, of course, cannot be fully carried out in this presentation, but we will certainly be able to complement it with a discussion, shows that there is little new proposals for the fight, and in all, there is a lack of mainly rationality, reflection and sober judgment, without any analysis and assessment of the consequences and actual effects, which Slovenia has said in the current situation, particularly irresponsible. In the LDS, on the contrary, we believe that measures must be considered and linked in general, with the aim of finding solutions that would be the right answer to the key problems facing the Slovenian economy, and these are not limited. Responsibilities for actions, bad or good, real and little less real, will not be borne by the opposition, but rather by the government. Of course, it would be good if we were looking for common solutions to work together. Indeed, constructive action is likely to be too much for the biggest opposition party, since it is easier to choose a few like measures without serious analysis. In doing so, it is still necessary to create a sense of crisis in the public, because of the Government's inadequate conduct, and to create the feeling that only the opposition has the right solutions and if their actions are not supported, we are in danger of a disaster, which is what the other republic calls. In our view, there is no reason to arouse uncertainty and mistrust among people and there is no need for a new republic. At the time of the consideration of the proposal, we would also like to draw attention to the unusual situation that the State Service, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, has also pointed out. When considering the proposal for a decision and the related package of measures, this alone cannot be complemented and amended in the examination process. The proposal for a decision is designed in such a way that it is not possible to deal with individual work within the framework of individual measures. This also raises the question of the constitutional separation of the legislative and executive authorities, as some proposals are written in a way that binds the Government to concrete conduct, particularly the acute restriction imposed by the second point of the proposal for a decision, since the proposed text only allows the establishment of a timetable for the implementation of the measures adopted. For these reasons, we will support the decision of the home working body at the LDS Club in order to ensure that the proposal for a decision is not suitable for further consideration. In doing so, we would like to point out that we support the responsible conduct of the current government and support it in its efforts to reduce the consequences of the crisis. We believe that it will act with thoughtfulness, actively engage in social dialogue with the social partners and propose measures that will be finalized, targeted at all key problems in the economy and society in general and will be linked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President of the Government, ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, in his first address to this House, argued that we were in crisis and called for the participation of all political parties represented in the National Assembly. At the time, estimates were made as to whether Slovenia had already covered the financial crisis. Although the financial crisis began in the second half of 2007, the previous government and the largest party in this government have been resting too long, in fact, on laurels, which have been a web of broader circumstances and not just their activities, but now they are accusing the very harsh new government of acting too slowly or of acting too poorly. The former government could also draw up changes to the budget for the current year, which is 2009 which is based on unrealistic foundations and has not done so. Even the Law on the Implementation of the Budget has amended that it should not have to prepare a budget, as it would have proved that it did not plan a cover for pre-election promises. This has been left to the current government, which is preparing a rebalancing of the budget under much more difficult conditions on the basis of negative four per cent economic growth. The Coalition and the Government are aware of the problems of the economic and financial crisis. Since the first day, the government has been actively engaged in the search for appropriate solutions. Within less than one month of the show, Pahor's government has prepared the first package of measures to limit the effects of the financial crisis. They had already been preparing and taking measures to mitigate the crisis and to address the consequences. It was not possible to rely on the experience of other countries. Since we were all looking for solutions at the same time, of course, specific to the individual environment and the scale of the crisis. And so it is today. So there are no effective recipes. It is also very difficult to agree to the assessment that the Government's actions are completely inadequate and too slow. The opposition, which, to a certain extent, summarizes the proposals and ideas of the Government, at the same time criticises its proposals as the best and the only. I wish you a lot of fun. I would very much like to see all the measures proposed [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u18	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u19	without adjustment, accept if there was a minimum possibility that their admission would push the way out of the crisis. [[...]] So, unfortunately, I find that it's another attempt at self-promotion, and it costs as much as it wants. The SDS convened an extraordinary meeting to discredit the coalition in time, you will not believe the European elections. The former Prime Minister of the Government, however, accuses the Government of being unwise in the course of government anti-crisis measures. On what basis, though, does this conclude? Neither the International Monetary Fund nor the European Commission nor the OECD have this opinion. These institutions only point out what they have already pointed out in the mandate of the previous government that public finances are not sustainable over the long term. However, unlike the previous government, this government is holding a debate on measures for the long-term sustainability of public finances. Let me reiterate the conclusion that in the measures we are discussing today, there are several ideas that they have adopted in the opposition group with difficulty without being embarrassed about this property. Unfortunately, in recent months, we have seen several times that the laws on which the ideas were discussed by the Government's representatives have been put into the procedure, but they have also failed so much that they could not be supported in the proposed text in the parliamentary procedure. The Coalition and the Government are aware that good proposals from the opposition must be accepted and also accepted when we have increased investment incentives for small economies and independent entrepreneurs. Although this was a summary of the economy's proposal, the previous government has abolished investment reliefs. Why is it different at the time of rule and action in opposition? We have also adopted a measure to speed up VAT return by 2010. Although this measure proposed an economy in the time of the previous government and could easily be implemented by the previous government at a time of more than 6% economic growth compared to the current minus 4%. The Coalition and the Government are not afraid to discuss a package of measures to improve the economic and social crisis, but from the point of view of the content of the measures, let me stress that some of the governments in preparation are taking good action by the SDS. We also see that in the proposed five laws, the SDS recycles already tabled laws that have been deemed inappropriate because such measures are not suitable for the resolution of the economic crisis. Other measures, however, are inappropriate for our economy and the size of a country such as Slovenia. For example, the adoption of a law on long-term care in the normative programme of the Government of Slovenia for 2009 is proposed to encourage voluntary work. Nor did the European Commission propose in its economic recovery plan to save the economy, as proposed by SDS laws. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware of the state of public finances. When we are talking, on the one hand, about measures to relieve and reduce the revenue of the revenue side of the budget, it is certainly necessary to consider also reducing all the standards that we provide through the budget. This affects a very sensitive field of solidarity. I cannot believe or refuse to believe in the reality of the project, which would mean "The Worse for People, the Better for the Opposition" in the next elections. The measures proposed by the Government are very incomplete and in many cases only indicate the direction of economic policies with different public financial implications. Further analyses are needed to enable rational decisions to be taken. However, we can certainly argue that the measures are fiscally unsustainable and create the conditions that I have already discussed. Therefore, a significant reduction in public financial revenues and an increase in public financial expenditure. This is the path that leads to a story that does not have a happy ending for all those who are already at social risk. We cannot and must not allow the social democrats of this gambling work. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal to conclude that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia supports a package of measures to improve the economic and social situation in Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration, as this decision would affect the independence of the Government as the supreme executive. Let us remind the proposers of what we and the Government have done or are doing to address the financial and economic crisis. These measures, of course, cannot be listed because they spend all the time devoted to the Group of Members in the introduction. The government is in session 14. 5. 2009 confirmed the new intervention law on partial reimbursement of wages and sent it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed intervention law aims to maintain as many jobs as possible. Even earlier, in order to preserve the maximum number of jobs, the Government has adopted an intervention law on partial full-time subsidisation, which allows for the retention of as many jobs as possible at the time of the downsizing and the downsizing of production. The National Assembly adopted the Public Finance Act. This allows beneficiaries to access liquidity at the time of the financial market failure when it is not possible to normally obtain credits on financial markets without State guarantees. The National Assembly has also adopted amendments to the Banking Act, which guarantees the role of all beneficiaries, instead of the amount so far. The Law on Guarantee Schemes of the Republic of Slovenia will enable companies established in the Republic of Slovenia and cooperatives to obtain liquidity to finance investments in investments and assets. Under the Public Finance Act, the Banking Act, the Guarantee Scheme Act, the State has committed EUR 12 billion of guarantees to release the credit crunch. By amending the SID law, the government adopted a decision to recapitalise the Bank's SID for EUR 60 million, a total of EUR 300 million. An appropriate capitalised development bank can be an important tool for economic and social policy in such situations. Greater capital can also enable a better assessment of the bank and thus more favourable resources to finance the bank. The government has also increased subsidies for technology centres, R & D and competitiveness of EUR 68 million, which is extremely important in these times of crisis. There is also increased funding for medium-sized and small enterprises amounting to €32 million, and unemployment benefits of €57 million have also been increased as their existence needs to be resolved. In the Social Democrats Group, we will therefore support the decision of the home labour body without a hint of bad conscience, and in this way we will also express our support for the Government's efforts to effectively, but at the same time non-pulsistically, find appropriate solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Notice. The Prime Minister has asked me to tell you that he is currently receiving the President of the Canadian Senate. He will return to the Assembly Hall immediately after his commitment. Janez Janša has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u21	Thanks again for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the government. The Slovenian Democratic Party or the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will, of course, support the proposal for a decision we have tabled. Of course, it also supports the measures taken by our professional council. Unfortunately, I must spend most of the time available to the parliamentary group to define these measures in order to explain and present these measures, because we did not have this time as a proposaler. In fact, we can continue where we concluded the debate at a similar December session last year. At that time there was a meeting of the National Assembly, where we took some anti-crisis measures and it was first shown that there were two views in Slovenia on how Slovenia should respond most effectively to these responses to the economic crisis. Today I find that after five months we are still at this crossroads, there are still two basic views that I will talk about below. It is worth repeating some of the fundamental assumptions that define, say, the effects of the economic crisis on the Slovenian economy. The fact is that this crisis started with a global financial crisis that started as early as the end of 2007, but Slovenia did not directly harm this global financial crisis. No significant financial institution in this country has collapsed due to the financial crisis. In fact, since the financial crisis, as we can see in these days, when we finally received some answers, our central bank, or Bank of Slovenia, which bought almost EUR 40 million of bonds from Lehman Brothers, has failed at a time when it was already written and talked about the possibility of a global financial crisis when the first signs were displayed. Mr Gaspari, behind me, was the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. At the end of the term of office, our government came to see how it somehow did not know or assumed that the crisis would also come to Slovenia, but that the opposition at the time knew that. Now, if she knew, I don't know why Lehman Brothers was then purchased and why Banka Slovenije was the only financial institution directly affected by the purchase of bad securities. But, thank God, it's a limited scale. It is somewhat unusual that this problem or scandal is in the central bank, because it is not a big incentive or a model for business banks, but fully taken, Slovenia is between those European countries and those countries in the world within a developed economy where, as a result of the global financial crisis, no serious financial institution has failed. As a result, the effects of the second phase of the economic crisis in Slovenia came relatively late, and Slovenia was mainly affected by serious problems in countries or markets where the Slovenian economy mainly exports. It is true, however, that due to its rigidity and inflexibility, the Slovenian financial system has reacted significantly slower to this second stage of the crisis, to the economic crisis and, in fact, we are still in this state. Every day we hear about a credit crunch that makes it necessary for companies that urgently need fresh capital to maintain or increase production and maintain or increase employment, which is crucial, simply do not have enough oxygen. And the measures proposed by the Government, many in the right direction, have been prepared together since the end of last year, are taking too late due to the untimely production of sub-laws or simply because some of the rules of the game are not clear. And also a debate that goes into the side left and focuses mainly on one part of the problem called "Tykun loans." However, the European countries where the Slovenian economy is most exported have reduced and are still reducing production volumes, reducing working hours, reducing and abolishing many production programmes. Predicted or even definitive estimates of economic growth for the first quarter of this year in the world's most developed and European economies are the most negative in the previous quarter of last year, which, of course, does not promise a rapid improvement in the next two quarters, and all the calculations made on the basis of the desire for a rapid recovery of the European and global economy are premature at that time. The consequences of the global financial crisis in the real sector will be comprehensive. Slovenia, as a highly linked part of the European economy, is on the one hand within this crisis, within these challenges, because of its membership in the euro area, stronger and, on the other hand, because of its dependence on exports to European markets that are increasingly shrinking, exposed to the same consequences as the rest of the developed world. At the beginning of the period when the crisis also affected our country, Slovenia had some important advantages compared with most of the other members of the European Union. The first advantage was and still exists to a large extent in low debt. At the end of last year, the Slovenian State was least in charge of the European Union. Our debt was less than 24% of the gross domestic product, the Maastricht limit was 60%. Up to 60% is a lot of maneuverable space. According to our assessment, if this room of manoeuvre is used in the right direction, not only will Slovenia survive this crisis, but it will also benefit from this crisis in order to achieve a new developmental rise at the first signs of the recovery of the global economy. A second advantage over most of the Member States of the European Union was the health of Slovenian public finances. In 2007, Slovenia recorded a public financial surplus, for the first time since our statistics are comparable to Europeans, and this is a public financial surplus of all public treasury. This was even attempted by the coalition to make political decisions, even though it was statistics, in the National Assembly. In the government material that we received from the social partners in connection with the so-called third package of anti-crisis measures, you have a graph, you have a scale of the Ministry of Finance, which honestly says that Slovenia had a public financial surplus in 2007. Look at this table if you don't believe us. The next advantage of Slovenia, which still exists in part, is a relatively developed and dynamic small and medium economy. Here is the key reserve, where it is possible with a few more oxygen to provide new jobs, for those who will inevitably lose their jobs in sectors that are even faster to work uncompetitively. The Slovenian economy has an advantage over many European economies due to the experience of the early 1990s when it lost a large part of the former Yugoslavia market and was able to adapt relatively quickly to the new situation. There's still this experience. She's not lost anywhere in the memory of past generations. This experience has made our economy more flexible. At the beginning of the economic crisis, we have often heard that one of Slovenia's most important advantages is to enter the European Monetary Union in a timely manner before Hungary or the Baltic States, which are, in fact, the deepest today in terms of comparing the decline in growth, that Slovenia has entered the European Monetary Union in a timely manner, that it has taken over the euro in order to reduce or thus has come into a significantly better situation than if it had its own weak currency. And if we look at what those key advantages are, we can make a simple comparison with Hungary, which experienced a rapid devaluation of its own currency at the beginning of this crisis. This means that the standard of the population has also dropped dramatically several times a night. All these objective gifts, advantages and weaknesses must be taken into account in preparing responses to the challenges of the crisis. I mentioned earlier that there are two perspectives on how to respond to this crisis. There's something in common with both eyes. And this is a recognition of the real state of affairs. Both the measures proposed by the opposition and the measures proposed by the Government stem from realistic assumptions, and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u22	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u23	from the knowledge that in these times of crisis, this year and possibly the following year, debt will have to be incurred. [[...]] This does not mean that Slovenia will be in debt within some reasonable limits, exceeding 60% of the gross domestic product, which is the Maastricht criterion or criteria in the Stability and Growth Pact, which is now what binds us because we are already a member of the European Monetary Union. Just enough of this maneuvering space. This is a key issue, even because no one still knows exactly how long this crisis will last, what we owe it to. What's that money we're going to spend on the next generation that they're going to have to create? No wise policy of this money can spend just to focus everything on alleviating the consequences of the crisis for the present generation. There is always a need to think about the next generation, and there is always a need to think about development. And much of the measures that we are proposing stem from this paradigm - if we owe ourselves, then let us take measures to revive the economy and do what future generations will benefit from. Let's say investments in development axes that need to be taken care of, like everything the Government proposes. Firstly, they mean new dynamics in the economy, at a time when, say, the construction sector does not have other or sufficient orders, it helps less developed parts of this country, which now, as the highway cross is being built up, ask why it has been forgotten about these provinces, and, something is being done that will benefit not only the present but also future generations. Such measures and such indebtedness are not only meaningful but also fair in terms of intergenerational solidarity. And that's also important. In our view, the right path for finding different solutions within this challenge is the same as we have advocated in December. Nothing's changed. We have already said that we need significantly more partnership in these times of crisis, both social and political, and in times of good growth and conjugation, that we need to discuss which strategic paths and directions are right and someone, if possible, to jointly determine the path or reach agreement that we also need an intergenerational agreement. I don't think we have the right to be indebted to future generations without somehow investing in what will be good for these generations. I think that the advice coming from the economy should also be taken into account. The common denominator of the positions created by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry or the Chamber of Commerce or the Chamber of Commerce is that many of the measures discussed by the Government are good to hear in order, that they are expected to be converted from words to concrete proposals and adopted as soon as possible, but that they will deliver results only over the years. Investing in greater innovation, science, assistance to institutes, researchers and so on is all necessary in times of crisis. But only these measures are not enough. Measures that help now are also needed immediately. From this point of view, it is a shame that we spent months in the National Assembly to discuss a simple matter, this is a shortening of the deadline for VAT refunds, and then you passed a law that shortens this deadline, but with 1 January of the following year. The economy needs funds now. Many will not survive until 1 January of the following year in the circumstances, if exacerbated, they will simply not survive. That way they won't have any of that short-term. Speed, pace, timing are very important at this time and this is a key comment coming from the economy. See the Chamber of Commerce or Chamber of Commerce websites and you will see that this is not some lonely opinion of the opposition. But we talked about this more or less in our parliamentary group for this and for other speakers in this Chamber in December. Let's see what's been going on over the last five months, after I thought we'd cleared some things up. We have encountered the already mentioned delay by defining the urgent rapid measures. You could say the government was very brave in words and performances. There was no press conference that would not have spoken words, sentences that contained the word firmly so and quickly. When it came to concrete measures, however, the government handled it with a shivering hand. And that's still the way it is. I do not imagine, for example, that my Government's Minister of Economy would run for the European Parliament during the previous term of office. I'd ask him for his health. Now it's something normal. Two key ministers of the government are peacefully running for the European Parliament in the midst of the worst crisis. This in itself indicates seriousness, indicating the seriousness of the perception of the situation itself. If it's not some big damage, if one of these goes from the government, it's a signal. The matter is simply not serious if it can be addressed in a half-loving way in response to the challenges of the crisis: little campaigning and little crisis activity. In times you say they were good and simple, the former Minister of Economy, Mr Vizjak, called many times at six a.m. when he drove from Brežice to work, and at ten p.m. when he drove home. And he visited, I think, in his mandate as Minister of Economy 300 or 400 companies directly. And the government itself visited between 600 and 700 economic operators when visiting Slovenian provinces, where we were directly familiar with the situation in these companies. We would recommend that this government visit a region after six months, not just Ljubljana. The only region visited by this government is Ljubljana, dealing with only one municipality, some mayor who insists on Robin Hood's reverse principle that more needs to be taken away from the poor, even more so for the rich. And that's the only point the government's ever dealt with. In my view, this partial approach to the social partners has also been a major problem in this response. Many meetings and press conferences, but no smart conclusion, nothing that would lead to a summary, to something that could lead to a social agreement, a new social agreement that we need in this situation, which is different from the one in which it was signed and to an intergenerational agreement. It called for a meeting of the so-called development dialogue, where the opposition was not invited, and everyone else. And it was said that this would continue. Nothing happened. It was established on dozens of different strategic councils, which mainly met only once, due to press conferences and photo dates. Last November, the President of the Government, Mr Pahor, was able to quote, to this end when he received his mandate, that in the coming times, even more so than we needed in the previous mandate, we need a social and political partnership and he promised to propose a new partnership for development and to respond to the challenges of the economic crisis. We waited for this promise to be fulfilled for a month, and then there was that December meeting on the responses to the then challenges of the economic crisis, and there was still nothing. Then I spoke to him once, he said they didn't have time to prepare us. A proposal and we've prepared it. Partnership for development 2+10 in frameworks that have proved to be good for those operating in the previous mandate. We sent it to all parliamentary parties, the response was like not having to be. There has been a meeting where the government coalition has unitedly said that they will not sign anything, that it is possible to conclude an oral cooperation agreement and that this is quite enough. This oral arrangement lasted exactly one week. We only received one proposal for an opinion and coordination - that was that famous package of austerity measures - on that package we prepared almost 100 additional proposals, we sent them to the Government. After four months, we still don't know whether those proposals were right or wrong. We didn't get any answers to that. In fact, even with regard to that package of austerity measures that was so widely announced, we still do not know to the public whether it has had any effects, what is happening to them now, or whether it was just some kind of pianist move that we all forgot about. After four months, we are still waiting for the government to answer whether our proposals are correct or not, whether they have been taken into account or not, or what the savings package is all about. In the meantime, an attempt was made to use the complication of the 2007 final account vote as an excuse for not having a partnership, although it is completely unrelated. In partnership, no one has accepted any obligation to cooperate in finding other solutions on topics unrelated to the crisis and the economy. As two possible crisis response scenarios were available in December, these two possible scenarios are still available, with less room for manoeuvre. Because hundreds of millions of euros have been distributed, we believe, not always in the right direction and because the money once spent cannot be spent again. At technical level, we could say that we have a campaign approach ahead of us to find some slow solutions, press conferences to a press conference from month to month, or a strategic approach. In this first case of a campaign approach, there is a danger, which is already partly manifested, that the space of manoeuvre that existed in Slovenia due to low indebtedness and other advantages will be used without long-term effects. Like I said, it's already happening to a certain extent. The government is using the approach of non-transparent redistribution here. This is a fundamental difference between the approach we are proposing and the approach taken by the Government, which is also reflected in these responses that we have received today at the table. The government simply stands in the position that there is a crisis here, that people will be affected, that they need help, increases social transfers and thinks that once this money is spent, the crisis will pass, everything will be as before, the budget will be full again, employment will grow, there will be no problem. At the same time, it also increases funds for the sharing of certain funds in the economy. This is a big problem: If you want to achieve rapid effects, you need quick action. It takes a long time to collect money from the economy by higher taxes or taxes, or by redistributing money from the economy and then by sharing it with some commissions or bureaucrats. This operation is arbitrary. Sometimes you hit a target, sometimes you don't. And a lot of money is spent on administration alone. Instead, we are simply proposing that more money be left to the economy. And let some more money be left to that economy, through tax reliefs that will invest. Because this is the only way for Slovenia to create new jobs, new productive jobs. And this is immediately, without the money being collected first, then turned to the budget and set up commissions, and then Mr Golobič and Lachovnik would distribute it to the companies by some invitations. Let's leave the money to the economy, I think the effects will be significantly better and faster on the table. If the government insists on this direction, which is now in some way further highlighted in these materials that we have received, we will come to some spiral when the reduction in employment and the lower value created will increasingly impoverish the national cash market on the income side, while increasing unemployment will require an increase in social expenditure. I've decided to listen to my colleague Pecan because she doesn't listen to me, I'll listen to her. Please. If we move forward on this path, there will be a steady increase in social transfers and public spending, surpluses and manoeuvres, which we have up to 60% of the debt, will collapse. We will reach some of the upper limits of intervention in reserves at the expense of future generations. Then we can either declare bankruptcy and call the International Monetary Fund for assistance or start raising taxes and rates. And neither will solve the situation. Maybe the first one before. This will, of course, have social consequences, poor citizens, falling standards, drastically reducing the competitive capacity of the economy. What we are trying to tell the Government is that this space is limited, that the time we spend these months in this debate is crucial, that something we can do today will not have any effect next year or that will simply not be financed by the means available next year. The strategic response we are proposing is still a rapid and significant economic burden for at least two years. We propose that 75% of this money, which we will be obliged to say very simply or very easily available manoeuvre space, is used to relieve the economy. 25% in order to urgently increase social transfers, because there is a need for solidarity. In our package is a whole series of measures, which I will talk a little bit more about later, which allow this. This is a reduction in taxes, a reduction in payment and reimbursement periods, tax reliefs, accelerated absorption of EU funds, including the reduction of public administration employees in a soft manner. Regrettably, the month of December, when some of these measures could still apply for last year, when these surpluses that could be invested in the new investment were greater, delayed. We propose, as I said before, to accelerate infrastructure investments to maintain economic activity and employment and to use the money we owe ourselves for the benefit of future generations. We propose the continuation of the Lisbon reforms, which are encouraged by the facilitation of investment equipment and research and development. We propose a greater redirection of European Union funds for these purposes and propose that social measures be taken more selectively for the most affected categories of citizens. One of the measures of the so-called third package of government is going this way. This is a law that establishes records and we support this law and hope that it will be on the benches of this National Assembly as soon as possible. Some of this strategic approach has been taken into account by the Government in recent proposals. We were not able to make an assessment quickly because the opposition did not receive this proposal from the package. We have officially received it only today on a bench in this building. We got it from the social partners. Good in this government package is just mentioned the law on the enforcement of rights from public funds. This is a law that will actually allow for genuine solidarity in this country by uniting records. We have not been successful in this regard, not in the previous term, nor in the previous mandates before ours. If the Government proposes this law as soon as possible, we promise all support for its adoption and completion. As long as this law is not available and this is even more important in times of crisis, there is always doubt as to whether the funds for social transfers are actually directed towards those most needed. This package is also worth supporting the proposal for a Danish supplement to all socially disadvantaged people, but it is likely to be paid on a realistic basis only after we have passed the law on the exercise of rights from public funds. This is, however, an approach that is more equitable than being able to give a dradnian allowance to only one part of the socially disadvantaged as proposed. From this package we also support the direction towards green tax reform. There's an extra maneuverable space here. Not only is this an additional room of manoeuvre to fill the budget or strengthen public finances, but it is also a matter of conduct that Slovenia must urgently implement within the commitments we have made within the EU to achieve environmental objectives. In this package is a very incomplete chapter or part where it speaks of an increase in taxes. The government announces this, but we don't know exactly which taxes it wants to increase. The proposal or ideas on public sector reform is incomplete. The part that indicates pension reform is also very incomplete. The key disadvantage of this package is that it does not have any strategy, that it is a list of measures that are well-designed in some chapters. Here, in my opinion, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs should be commended, where the package divides it to the level of laws and has some good proposals. The worst part, however, is the economic part where things are simply imposed without being worked out. What we support, too, is the green tax reform itself. Without that time, how, why, and what. We very much welcome those parts of this government package where there has been sincere recognition. Firstly, to the recognition that Slovenia had a public financial surplus in 2007. And secondly, the budget balance that was adopted months ago in the National Assembly is not good. This paper says that this rebalancing only increases programmes and spending, saves nothing in the state sector. That's a few surprises. The government's paper says that the fiscal situation in Slovenia will not improve significantly, even if all these measures are taken and implemented. The government therefore questions its own work. Since there have been several different versions of or quotations or indications of assessments of relevant international institutions on the state of Slovenia or of the measures taken by Slovenia to get out of the crisis, there have been in previous debates, as well as in those debates that have occurred in the public after we have presented this package of measures, let me list the assessments of key international institutions. The International Monetary Fund, in the final report of its regular mission in Slovenia 2009, says it expects Slovenia to be in recession in 2009, the recession will exacerbate or exacerbate the decline in investment exports, increase in unemployment, decline in stock exchange rates and a decline in domestic demand, partially offset by an increase in the country's spending. The International Monetary Fund estimates that the Slovenian authorities have responded well and quickly to the initial shocks of the global financial crisis, as they, in parallel with other European countries, have introduced an unlimited guarantee for bank deposits, the possibility of state guarantees for bank loans and the possibility of recapitalisation from the country's equity entry into banks. This was all proposed last year and also adopted. Nevertheless, the IMF points out that it is necessary to ensure that banks have sufficient liquid assets, in particular long-term assets, in the event of a tightening of the credit crunch. This warning, as we can see, is quite appropriate. With regard to fiscal policy, the International Monetary Fund proposes to increase the share of public investment. Exactly what we're proposing. In particular, it recalls the measure of partial full-time subsidisation. While the measure offers some relief to workers and large companies, the measure does not aim enough at the most vulnerable groups. We should take this warning seriously, too. Since the structural reforms, the International Monetary Fund believes that the pension system should be reformed, a more flexible labour market should be introduced, the salaries of public servants should be curbed and the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy increased, in particular in terms of preventing monopolies and oligopolies. The IMF here sees an old problem in Slovenia, which we have not been dealing with recently, but is trying to further protect by decommissioning the supervisory institutions of this monopoly. The Council of the European Union, in its recommendation on the modernisation of the broad economic policies of the Member States and the Community in 2008, and on the implementation of the employment policies of the Member States of Slovenia, recommends that priority be given to challenges such as additional pension reform and the effective implementation of active ageing strategies and additional focus on a more flexible labour market, coupled with a more effective personal approach to the implementation of active labour market policies. It further recommends that, in the context of an integrated flexicurity approach, recent reforms, it promote more flexible contractual arrangements to prevent segmentation of the labour market, which mainly harm young people and further improve the efficiency of business services, in particular with regard to persons with low employability. I quote this because there are a number of those among our actions that are trying to encourage the Government to make at least partial systemic reforms in those areas where reforms need to continue in these times of crisis. I believe that, in response to a number of things that have been said in recent days and even today, the opinion of the Council of the European Union, which says that Slovenia has made good progress in implementing the National Reform Programme in the period 2005-2007, is also worth quoting. Progress has been seen in the consolidation of public finances, the involvement of social partners in the design of all major labour market reforms, efforts to strengthen the link between the education system and the scholarship system and the economy, the reduction of the founding [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] companies and reducing administrative burdens. [[...]] Slovenia's entry into the euro area is, in the opinion of the Council of the European Union, a key achievement in the macroeconomic field. If I am not mistaken, in the coming days the new Minister of Public Administration will travel to New York after the United Nations award, because Slovenia has won first place for the VEM project - first place in the world, all in one place with which we have substantially simplified the establishment of a new company. I think it would be more fair for another minister to go get this award. However, Slovenia can be proud of the fact that a number of administrative obstacles have been removed, which make it easier for the economy to operate during this crisis period as well. Given that I am wasting the time that the Group of Members has available to present its views because you have given us only 5 minutes of time as proponents, allow me to simply list or summarise some of the measures proposed and, together, expose ourselves to the risk that you will then assess and criticize things that, if someone is directly accompanying this meeting, they do not know. Because there's simply no time to introduce them. From this point of view, this meeting will be cut off. In fact, we propose three sets of measures to improve the economic and social situation in Slovenia. The first set is measures to promote the production and investment activities of enterprises, including measures to preserve and create jobs and mitigate the social consequences of the crisis. Let me stress once again that the magic word in response to the challenges of the economic crisis has taken over the title "Grow jobs" – growth and jobs – even more important in the crisis than before. No package of measures that does not have the focus of this objective, creating new jobs, is comprehensive, is disabled. Efforts to create such conditions should be at the forefront of these measures, in order to create new jobs in the economy. In the fiscal area, it is necessary to relieve the economy, on the basis of the economic activity I explained earlier, by reducing the rates of corporate tax and activity tax. For this purpose, a new law on corporate income tax has been prepared, which is a specific point. This is a concrete measure that could be taken today. Then we propose an increase in investment facilitation and R & D. A special law is prepared for that, too. We have heard in the last days why we have not proposed these investment incentives in the previous term. This observation was made by some of the same ones who, in their previous mandate, have been able to report to the government that it overheats the economy and drives inflation by doing so. In the previous term, due to the high economic growth of investment funds, there was sufficient. The Minister of Finance notes even too much because they also leased loans and invested in large amounts. Investments did not need to be further encouraged with relief and now they need to be encouraged. And measures should be taken when they work in the right direction. In the previous term, we are forced to lead an anti-cyclical fiscal policy. This time the situation is different. This is why these reliefs are needed. Also on the basis of what the Government represents, we can see that a lot of investment has been made in recent years, including investments in sectors where there is no major crisis where production can be increased because orders are coming. However, in order to increase production by hiring new workers, these investments need to be completed. And here's the problem. Thousands of Slovenian small and medium-sized enterprises that have started investments in the previous term cannot now get credit to complete these investments because banks only approve loans to some. You're smaller in the economy, you have less options. Or as they say, people have to set up their own property of the house, and property, on a mortgage to get minimum credit. We are here discussing that some large acquisition credits can be extended by a state guarantee. That's completely reverse logic. Companies that are good at increasing production and creating new jobs should also be helped. Whoever does not understand this approach certainly cannot lead the country on the way out of this crisis. Then we propose re-scheduling the deadline for the refund of the overpaid tax, or at least to enforce the law immediately, not until next year. Yesterday we heard one Slovenian successful entrepreneur who said he did not need this law next year. He needs it now, and he's gone. We then propose to the Government that the excise policy for fuel fuels should lead so that the price of motor gasoline in Slovenia will not be higher than the prices in neighbouring countries. Not only because it has never been in history and transit has become used to filling tanks in Slovenia, but because foreign drivers transiting Slovenia are also contaminating our environment, they are paying our bills in our budget. This isn't happening right now. Not only does everyone calculate where it's cheaper to fill a tank. Large automotive companies have internal rules that state that drivers are obliged to fill the tank where fuel is cheaper. Which is normal because everyone's acting rational. Calculate how much transit goes over Slovenia, how much excise duty does not come into our budget and how much we lose every day. On the one hand, there's a lot of pressure for money, debt, savings, fundraising, and here we throw money out the window. And this is not the money of Slovenian taxpayers, but transit, which pays a very low price in terms of the degree of pollution caused by the transition across Slovenia. I don't know if it's such a logical thing to calculate every car carrier at the Ministry of Finance that it's so hard to calculate. We are not against the fact that excise duties remain at last year's level when they were the lowest when they were the lowest in terms of European regulation, as far as possible. You know that they were because we were struggling with inflationary pressures caused mainly by the high price of oil in international markets. And we did not object to the government raising excise duties. But this policy should be smart because you get significantly more with slightly lower excise fees if you transit full tanks in Slovenia, than slightly higher than now when transiting full tanks in neighbouring countries. Therefore, there is no need to adopt a law. This can be done by the Government tomorrow in a written session and we will receive at least €5 million more in the Slovenian budget each day. Do you know what the debate is like for €5 million when there is a balance on your hands or a draft budget?Oh, my God! Then we propose a series of other measures resulting from the same paradigm; I do not have time to count them. He is a common denominator, once again, a worker and a job. Since this is a key word, it is a key sentence in this crisis. When you, respected colleagues, read in the daily newspaper or on television a message from the State Bureau of Statistics that employment in Slovenia increased slightly last month - then you know that we may be near the bottom of the crisis. As long as unemployment increases dramatically and employment declines, know that we are sinking into this crisis. It's a key piece of information that can't be cheated on and that's going to hit all of us in one way or another. When it comes to social affairs, it is necessary to establish a just and solidarity society and actually help those who are most affected by the crisis. As has already been said - in this regard, the government side is the most designed and the measures proposed will mainly receive our support. It is also possible to make use of other reserves, such as government supply reserves, to be included in the process of providing food, medicines and other essential needs to humanitarian organisations when they have these blank shelves, because it is some natural thing that costs the country nothing. Then a law on long-term care needs to be adopted and the administrative obstacles to providing care for older people at home continue to be removed. There is also a market niche for new employment. The government should continue with the good example of the Ministry of Defence and make available empty apartments for rent to young families. And it is necessary, even when it comes to education, research and innovation, to take some measures that will, on the one hand, help the generations now in school and, on the other hand, work in the long term. I regret that, for the last time, no amendment was adopted in the adoption of the grant law to extend or extend the number of beneficiaries. I think there is also a need to provide a greater scholarship for those who are studying outside the place of residence, because this is a completely different problem than being home from Ljubljana or from Maribor. In the field of the environment, everything must be done to meet our environmental obligations that we have undertaken within the framework of the European Union. Surely a green tax reform can be a key instrument here, and we call on the Government to come as soon as possible with the measures worked out. Innovative financing of buildings, renovation of buildings with payments divided over several years should be introduced on the basis of savings in energy costs. When Germany introduced this approach, this significantly boosted the construction sector and, on the other hand, much was saved by the renovation or isolation of residential buildings and public buildings, which is the easiest thing to do and plan. In supporting businesses and further reducing administrative burdens, I specifically stress the measure proposed in the form of a law that costs nothing, the budget will not be deprived, and it will significantly facilitate business operations and also reduce their costs, namely the introduction of a single remittance of all government fees paid by companies and independent entrepreneurs in a joint account. I hope that at least this bill proposed will be supported because it has no negative budgetary implications. It has only positive consequences, because if the economy is less burdened, it will also produce more and the budget will also get more over taxes. In the second package, we propose measures to promote private and public consumption, as well as measures to improve the rational behaviour of the country. Sometimes these measures, when discussed, throw in one basket the spending of the country and the consumption of the population. Economists know exactly the consequences of both spending. In our situation, there is a need to promote the consumption of the population in certain segments, while at the same time to save significantly more when spending the country, but also selectively here. What we should do from a national perspective to promote spending is precisely these state investments in the necessary infrastructure, because this is also a legitimate measure. We propose two laws to promote the consumption of the population with direct subsidies, a €1,000 subsidy to young families in the purchase of housing or in the resolution of housing problems, which does not exclude the possibility of loans and other instruments. In the last few days, we've heard a lot of readings on our account, saying that with 10,000 euros, no one can buy an apartment. Of course he can't. Like it would rule out the possibility of him getting a loan. It is clear that, in addition to this subsidy, it will have to provide funds elsewhere to simplify this credit business, as the Government promises, in order to encourage our banks not to make loans to young families with permanent employment, because this is a problem, but it is possible to combine it together. That doesn't rule out each other. The biggest nonsense is to oppose these measures by claiming that this excludes other ways of assistance and arrangements. We also propose a subsidy to replace old cars for new ones. This is about a double action. For the first time, it is an incentive for private consumption, which also has positive effects at the other end. CO2 pollution through cars is a very important part of the problem that needs to be addressed. After this simple calculation, you can see for yourself that this measure indirectly also has a positive impact on the revenue side of the budget. If sales increase, the tax inflow will also increase. If someone pays 10,000 for a new environmentally acceptable car and therefore receives 1,000 subsidies, the country gets 2,000 euros back from the tax that everyone has to pay. The issue cannot be summed up and counted only on the expenditure side and the EUR 1,000 is deducted. Here we propose twenty other measures, for which there is now no time to count them all. However, I will mention that the various savings packages that collect money on small things are usually not very effective. They may be popular, but they're not effective. We propose that the Government reduce the material costs of all direct and indirect budgetary users by at least 30%. Then let's go inside and find the reserves. If such a decision were to be taken, believe that the behaviour in the search for these reserves would be completely different. We propose to the Ministry of Justice to lower notary tariffs by an additional 20% and to bring back the suspended notary cities and thus ensure additional competition between notaries. If we lower notary tariffs by 20%, the revenues in this activity will still be nice. When they fell in the previous term, there were many comments that the notaries would fail. We have increased the number of Notary cities, the competition has increased, the tariffs have been lower, but no one has failed. We don't see any on the social list either. I'm sure there's a spare here. For the third set, which is also very important, especially because we have not done all the work in the first phase, we propose some measures to stabilise and normalise the financial system and the financial market. Before taking individual measures, I propose that the National Assembly deal very seriously and in depth with the annual report of the Bank of Slovenia, which I think was made and sent, which should be extended by some well-integrated assessment of the health situation of the Slovenian financial system. In recent weeks we have experienced an unpleasant surprise after the last session of the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances, we have listened to some completely different data from the largest banks and also from the Bank of Slovenia, as they now appear in the public. And man no longer knows which data he would trust. But it's a billion-dollar gap. And I think that the National Assembly, which also oversees the work of Banka Slovenije under the Constitution and law, needs some comprehensive assessment of the health status of the Slovenian banking system before any individual measures are taken. To ensure that the various debates about awards, payments and so on do not go on indefinitely and that the situation is sometimes blurred, we suggest that all these individual contracts are simply made public, and we will see who signed them, how much someone has won. And it will be decided where the responsibility is and who is responsible and what the purpose is to keep a confidential contract that the public is aware of in one way or another, that it was the millionth prize. Now I've been discussing things that can be written in this contract or not. And there's a decision to make and to imagine it to the public, and all of this controversy will be over. And you'll know what to do. But now things are being discussed on the basis of newspaper articles and we act as if this is happening in another country. In these proposals for measures, which we have not specified very precisely where we do not know the situation, and I fear that you do not know the situation, and even most people in the Government do not know the situation, we need this assessment from the Bank of Slovenia in order to know the situation. But when we discussed these measures, which we could not, as the Government seems to us to evaluate very precisely, because you need to know the situation first, it was clear from the previous government that it was responsible for the granting of credits for managers' acquisitions, that much had been written about it and that the previous government had not prevented it. Maybe. Part of the blame is also on the previous government because it has not used its instruments and has made order in the administration, especially the largest or largest banks in Slovenia and has at least sanctioned things back. She couldn't stop it because she didn't know. Since the Administration has not even informed the Supervisory Board of these largest loans. But instead of arguing about this responsibility, where there is little that can be done back, let us act at least at this point where it is possible to prevent things from happening. Now there's something worse to look forward to. These so-called tycoon loans were granted by the administrations of these banks on the basis of the stock flags and guarantees in the form of shares and their assets. Now here, four members of the government coalition propose that these loans may be extended by a state guarantee. If that was wrong and weird, it's perverted. Now we will give state guarantees to extend the loans that we all say should not be. Well, let's just say that if the bank can't get the credit back, it'll take these shares away, the companies won't go down for that, and it'll just be ownership by somebody else. The property will pass from the tycoon to the one who just gave credit. It's quite simple, even though it's trying to make things very complicated. When we consider the amendment you tabled, I think we can vote unitedly against it and finally settle it. Since the exception proposed is proposed precisely for these loans, not for the credit of Akrapovich, Buskarol or Jakopin. Because of these loans, there are dilemmas here. And that's why you want to introduce exceptions. If that happens, then, of course, all this rhetoric about putting things in the right place will have no weight. And it won't be just us. With what has already been said in the last days about the urgent need to release the credit crunch, I also have a question here about the operation of the SID bank, which we have recapitalised with substantial funds, hundreds of millions of euros. But when we walk around companies, we hear that this bank just doesn't have open doors, that it's a very difficult institution that doesn't respond to this need, and so far it's not done anything to relieve this credit crunch. And where they're supposed to have, by the way, leading substantially higher wages than government recommendations. I don't know if that's true or not, but that sounds like it. If we've introduced this institution, then let it work, let it help release the credit crunch. Allow me to conclude with the conclusion that, despite the fact that we have only received government responses to our proposals on the table, we are pleased that we have received them at all. At this rate, it's also a success. This paper says that our proposals for action are incomplete. That's what it says in the introduction. However, it concludes that 3/4 of these measures are already being implemented and implemented by the Government. Therefore, logically, we could conclude that the Government is then implementing incomplete measures. I propose that we start talking here about the real categories, we have detailed which of the actions presented by the Government in the third development package, we will support, we deserve support and it is good that the Government has proposed them. We didn't just go to some flat-rate evaluation. We propose that the Government use the same vats and that, where we have proposed each sex, we make a common effort and put in one law or joint action. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, as I have said before, we are pleased that something has come from the Government, which means that the call of this extraordinary meeting of the Government has already aroused and for the coming months, which will be crucial when we get the data on May unemployment, on June unemployment, you will see that the announcement by Mr Svetlik a few months ago, that it will be possible for 100,000 unemployed in Slovenia only at the end of the year, to be substantially too optimistic, unfortunately, and that it will be denied by practice in a few months. These months ahead of us will be crucial and we appeal to the Government that it is decisive not only in words but also in practice not to take them with a shaking hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Cveta Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u25	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Much is being said today, and also in the last days, about whether consideration of the proposal for measures is intended for sufficient time. There is talk of a lack of time for these measures to be presented in detail. Today we're going to talk about them for 17 hours. You're saying it's not enough. Only the SDS will be available for 7 and a half hours from this time, and I believe that anyone at this time cannot say effectively, compactly and meaningfully everything he wants will not be able to do so in hundreds of hours. Last but not least, the fellow Member carrying the proposal of measures was, in my memory in the National Assembly, maybe twice, three times, four times, not anymore. And the question is whether he deserves a salary here in Parliament. And if I were here repeatedly, I would have plenty of opportunity and time to present my ideas, proposals, views on anti-corruption measures when dealing with individual laws. Let me stress some key points in the presentation of the opinion of the Parliamentary Group. The opposition SDS led by former Prime Minister Janez Janša presented to Parliament proposals for measures and 5 laws to improve the economic and social crisis. For the starting point, Slovenia's written claim entered into the crisis in good condition, which SDS Members and also Janez Janša are constantly repeating. It is true that the period between 2004 and 2008 has been very successful for us and the world, and on the other hand, both in the world and in us, it has proved that high economic growth and prosperity are based on unrealistic foundations and that some huge inflatable balloon has been created, which has broken rapidly and infamously. Unfortunately, Slovenia, led by the government of Janez Janša, has made some major and irreparable mistakes that plague us today in the crisis. First time. It has not implemented any necessary structural changes in these favourable times. Not enough has been invested in knowledge, research and technological progress. For example, in 2008, Janševa's Government dedicated technology and scientific projects to small and medium-sized enterprises, listen to me, for millions of euros. Now it's 14 million. Another time. In other good times, she was in enormous debt. For example, during this whole period we built highways exclusively with loans. She didn't reduce the deficit. What's more, this one's even gotten bigger over the years. Gross debt thus increased by 161 % or 112 % of the gross social product in 2008 compared to 2004. In order to improve the balance sheet, the balance sheet of your mandate with the final account, you were prepared to make and trigger a crisis of international dimension, because we were not prepared to confirm a fictitious budget surplus. The new government and the crisis that took place right at the start of its work were waiting for an empty cash register, a hole, nothing. Moreover, the government of Janez Janša has left a new government full of unbundled accounts for the pre-election promises that had to be found only by amending the budget. For example, it is money for an extremely questionable wage reform in the public sector and thus an increase in wages in this area, which will give us a severe headache, money for a student diet, free kindergartens for another child and so on. Worse journeys than yours, Mr. Janša, the previous government could not let us. I see the president of the SDS would rather leave than listen to a critical word. Last but not least, the previous government allowed and did not monitor the granting of Taliban loans for managers' acquisitions in so-called state banks - NLB and NKBM, for which our fellow Member, Vila Trofenik, first warned, and you hid the data from him, and then Minister Bajuk escaped, and then just disappeared. A large part of high economic growth was based on loans financed by accelerated construction activities, which also led to higher inflation. Many companies, which the country had a more or less strong influence and were led by dedicated personnel, close to the then authorities, got in trouble, did business poorly and are now on the verge of breaking down. Parade horses such as Intereuropa, Luka Koper, Paloma, Elan, HIT, even Petrol is lost. Not to mention particularly controversial operations in Drava power plants; 21 million unsecured loans to the Maribor diocese; and in Eles, where many very interesting projects were financed, such as Canadian rowboats or Pavlin Olympics; or incomprehensible decision to build a new interior ministry building, unreasonable and excessive purchase of patriotic and military ships; 200 million incentives to build a block of 6 Thermal Power Plant Šoštanj for delaying the issue of consent and inadequate management of the construction of oncology, pediatrics, neurological clinics, new clinics. The sad and costly stories that I list with one purpose and one question: Do heirs and creators and bearers of all this really have the moral right to criticize, reason and offer themselves as great saviors? Isn't everything just a cover-up maneuver that they want to divert attention from their own guilt and responsibilities? The fact is that the previous government of Janez Janša is also clearly responsible for the difficult situation in which Slovenia is at the moment. Another time. For a long time, the SDS and the government of Janez Janša have not wanted and acknowledged a crisis that is already a government in the world. She was not concerned about the high inflation growth that we had warned about in Zares, especially our Member, Matej Lahovnik, and pointed to the first unhealthy situation in the economy. Last autumn you said out loud that the crisis in Slovenia is not that it will not be. You've done everything you can to reduce the public's public awareness of the problem. You have always argued that Slovenia will not be affected by the financial crisis. When the crisis was here, when experts, for example in Umar, had already opposed Virant's wage reform in the public sector, it continued to push forward. And this move is one of the things that makes the OECD the most critical of us. Third time. Before the day of the conference on managing the economic crisis in Brdo, Janez Janša estimated that the anti-crisis measures of the current governments were unwise. Those who rule do not know what to do, should rely only on others. Are things really as simple as all-knowing saviors, such as former Minister Vizjak, Grims, Chernač and so on. There's a whole world in crisis. National leaders are looking for various rescue measures. They type like that in the dark, some things appear to be appropriate and effective, others like gunshots in the blank. Nor are Nobel laureates in the field of economics united. Economists are thinking differently, governments are looking for different ways. Each country must find a suitable way to deal with the crisis. It is even more true that the resources we have at our disposal to deal with the crisis, even in Slovenia, are severely limited, so it is necessary to think carefully about what measures are being targeted. Is the current government’s thinking and thinking ability really harmful? Are the measures really foolish? Or is it just a matter of admitting that the opposition can really act and propose measures because it does not need to think about global finances, debt, sustainability of public finances and the like?Oh, my God! Or perhaps it is just too easy to suggest a reduction in taxes and relief in a variety of areas, while at the same time giving a whole series of "gifts", such as contributions to the purchase of young family apartments or a new car. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. But for example, it is not better to directly help our automotive industry in Revoz and many manufacturers of parts for the automotive industry in Slovenia, but on average the entire world automotive industry and, in particular, traders and sellers. The government has prepared a comprehensive response. We really support it in the Group of Members. We think she did the right thing. The first two sets of measures were designed primarily to stabilise the financial system for ensuring bank liquidity and providing funds for business normalisation. A number of measures have also been taken to better and more effectively draw on EU funds. The second part of the measures was aimed at preserving jobs by promoting shorter working hours and encouraging and increasing funds for development investments. The OECD assessed that the measures to help banks were appropriate but not yet in force. Certainly much can be expected of the guarantee schemes, but they have been blocked for a long time also because of the veto of the State Council. During this time, however, the measures have created 1,500 new companies and 15,000 new jobs with state aid. In front of us is coordination and adoption of measures from the third package. For the vast majority of these are a general assessment that they are good and appropriate. In view of its specifications, Slovenia needs to find the right mix of measures that will work on money supply, on demand for goods and investments, on entrepreneurship, and also on those that will mitigate the social consequences of the crisis. There is something else about the broader dimensions of the SDS client's operation and its most exposed members. It is a deliberate action in several ways. First of all, we monitor the increasingly severe and incomprehensible behaviour here, in the National Assembly, which is aimed at giving the impression that Parliament's work is an anarchic, irreconcilable, full of procedural acts, business exercises, creating an impression of an emergency, planned for an uninterrupted debate, blocking the work of emergency committees, etc. The government's performance is shown to be poor, inadequate, poorly guided, delayed, insufficient, based on internal friction and inefficiency. Such a Husca criticizing is a silent hope for the government to lose its compass and run into inappropriate and reckless solutions that would make people feel even more bitter. But in the Group of Members, we really believe that crisis times are precisely those that require a lot of talks, coordination, the drawing up of opinions and visions, and social dialogue. In times of crisis, we have the impression that we need a firmer and firmer authoritarian hand and the SDS is already offering it to us in a certain way. But such a hand can quickly become a leaded hand. What's going on? People today no longer believe in moderate and reasonable solutions. In distress they are not satisfied with small steps, they require swift and radical action, they demand the search for the guilty, they demand convictions and punishments, barbaric reckonings, more order and discipline. And it is not difficult for such people in distress and trouble to invite the streets, to protect them against the true and perceived culprits, for their tribulation. And this is a beautiful warm beam, as Boštjan M. Zupančič says, for various forms of fascism, chauvinism and also for the operation of psychopaths of all kinds. Crisis times have long been known in psychiatry as a paradise for psychopaths. These are already very dangerous things that I hope will not be overplayed in Slovenia. In your proposal for measures, you have also set up your crisis analysis and said that capitalism from the crisis will come out better in a valuable sense because of its adaptability. It's a very old-fashioned and scrupulous thought. For many of us warn that the economic growth and the model of prosperity that it creates and has so far guided as a neoliberal financial model for global economic growth does not produce good results. The benefits come only to narrow privileged groups. The rich are getting richer, the poor are getting poorer, the privileged are capital and ownership, and the work is deeply undervalued, humiliated and excluded from codecision. Such models were close to most of your government's mandate. Finally, in your mandate, you have substantially reduced taxes on the richest, you have not been able to tax your property and so on. And only at the end of your term did you begin to advocate a slightly more social model of the market economy in the light of the near elections and poor public image. The current model of economic growth, according to our assessment, is socially unfair, due to limited natural opportunities and goods and to ignoring nature, is also environmentally unacceptable. Politics also bear great blame for this, as it was deeply responsible for unethical and immoral conduct, where the only holy power and money, the rapid earnings without work, and corruption became socially acceptable and an escapeible rule. Unfortunately for us, too, and unfortunately this has been particularly enriching in recent years under your government. Let me close by presenting the views of the Group of Ambassadors on actions with a direct assessment of the proposals. A number of measures are good, useful and appropriate. We're sure and we'll try to make sure the government takes them into account. The whole range of measures you want to present as your own are only prescribed, younger ones would say overcrowded, and are literally summarised by the government's already announced or published. However, many of the measures proposed are clearly unrealistic, populist and ready to achieve the rapid effects of likeness. While the measures were rejected on the Committee as inappropriate, we would like to point out that for two reasons in particular. Firstly, since it is only a matter of considering the conclusion that the National Assembly supports the package of measures, but does not have the power to substantively cut them, it is not possible to amend them and to supplement the conclusions are as they are. They shall prevent the treatment and definition of each of them. So somehow take it or leave it, all or nothing. Is this really what the proponents say that they want to cooperate and help the government, propose to it, but their proposal is such that it is, in fact, untouchable? A very self-indulgent, all-knowing move, so to speak. Another time. It is an unstoppable and inappropriate method of mixing normal and displaced powers between the two branches of power, between the powers vested in Parliament and those vested in the government, as the executive branch of power. The measures are not only a determination of the principle of direction, but rather specific guidelines for binding action, which are within the power of the Government. The government must remain the country's policy-maker and the measures must be linked to the frameworks set by the National Assembly. What the proposers propose would, however, seriously affect the role of the Government, even restrict it and make it impossible. This also suggests that it is, however, a deliberate dismantling of all three branches of government, which also indicates some of the proposed amendments to the Constitution for the so-called second republic. These are already things, and we can say, dangerous game. Therefore, we will not really support the actions of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u27	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. I think, and I appreciate, and the entire DeSUS Group also, that it would be good for a way out of the crisis to look for measures with optimism, not with such a dark atmosphere as I think, has now been established, at least in my own House. It would be good to look for moves for cooperation and as little exclusion as possible. That is why neither I nor other DeSUS Members are going to put ourselves in a line of those who will wait at the tennis table, when they will get the shovel in their hands and start passing the ball over the net, and it will not matter whether we hit it accurately. It will be more important whether the impact will be strong and whether we will be able to express some very receptive words. We would simply like to say that we feel that our support, when we weigh everything the Government has prepared, is appropriate to these measures. So that these measures, although we all do not support all of them, although we believe that there is a lack of some kind, even though we think that some is bad, but when we weigh the whole, and this is not just about individual parts, but about the whole, we consider that the measures that have already been implemented and the measures that are in preparation are worth our serious support. This does not mean that I would be opposed to the measures proposed by the opposition types. Many of these proposals have already been implemented. This government is already doing some things. Many, I am sure, will further encourage reflection and possibly contribute to a nuance of change. And in this direction, in my judgment, I think we should go to the debate to look for measures that we can all support as much as possible and measures that really would be as early as possible and as effective as possible. In doing so, the authorship of these measures is not as important as the measures themselves. Let me remind you that in this year, last year, the year before last year, as well as before, many individuals, economic and other associations have made many proposals that have been more or less taken into account. Many have also written brochures on this subject. If we want to load them now, just the ones that were presented last year and this year, there are a dozen of them. And this extra package we're getting right now is one over a dozen. The question is whether it is right to lose ourselves in entropy of different proposals, whether it is better to focus on what we can create into a strategic whole, which will be coherent, which will not only be a sum of different thoughts and ideas, and for which everyone would be bet that we should also implement. We in the parliamentary group believe that this method of work that we are proposing, that is to say, this cooperative, this way that connects, which would bring about some optimism, and it would make a lot of sense to us, even if we don't like it, to give up not to perforate the whole so that it doesn't sink, so we're willing to support it. Of course, it is true that the Government will not be able to take all the measures proposed. And it is also true that she will not be able to adopt a policy of designing measures that will be, in other words, octroated, but that she will have to formulate this policy herself, for she will probably have to take all the responsibility for what will be missed. We are happy, however, that we somehow sense the predictions of a smoothing of commitment to some of the maastricht criteria. We are pleased that if we understand that the policy of budgeting for public finances will change considerably, we are pleased that we are somehow inclined to do so by everyone in order to change the economic structure in Slovenia, and that we do not forget that it has to be behind [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] a social network in which we will catch and depreciate those who slip in between. [[..]] We do not reject the debate on the measures, but we reject the proposal for a decision as drafted by the SDS and support the proposal for a decision as drafted by the home labour body.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Srečko Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, few ministers, ministers - a, she's not. Good. We cannot say, my fellow Members and colleague, that the Government is not responding adequately during this crisis period. We cannot argue that this meeting is convened simply because we are in a pre-election period. Today, those who look at us expect to receive some answers to the questions that are for them, of course, for citizens and citizens of a very important character, and are existentially dependent on survival tomorrow. They expect us to get clear answers about how we will get out of this crisis and when the sun will come back for them, because they are currently in the big darkness. And there aren't many. We're approaching a hundred thousand. The government was counting on that result to be the end of the year. Over 80,000 unemployed are already strong, and this number is likely to increase. It is true that in this time dimension, which we know to be an irreversible component, we can do more if we combine knowledge, head and listen to one another. Now we're acting very uncoordinated and this orchestra doesn't play the same tunes. It could be more constructive and willing on the one hand and on the other hand to make less bargaining and do more in this short time, which could be disastrous for Slovenia. More particularly in the area of those problems which, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, are the biggest problems for us. Usually you're dealing with the biggest problems. And these are social problems. The measures must be immediate, effective and, above all, should not be bureaucratic. And if we listen a little bit, I'm the last speaker today, there's going to be another one behind me, probably not effective, but bureaucratic ones are too much, at least as far as VAT is concerned, for example, we can see that the country is unjustifiably holding back what is not hers, we could immediately return the money to where it is now bloodyly needed. And probably this money, which has been overpaid to the state treasury, would be more quickly repaid, including by opening up a possible new job. The law we adopted, for example, on subsidisation for reduced working hours, has also been corrected because it was lifeless, because we have introduced a subsidy for the company as a whole. However, parts of the companies, which have a structural division of jobs that have been ordered, have been declared in this programme because they have not completed the orders, and have also had to pay the penalty, because workers simply should not have been allowed to carry out full-time work, and overtime has also been prohibited. So what are we doing? As part of the solutions adopted, there is also a great deal of confusion. Okay, well, whoever's doing this can be wrong. I can accept that, too. I believe we're correcting these mistakes quickly. At least that's the last of us. But where do we see, in the Slovenian National Party, a greater impact on the outcome of the crisis? Above all, to limit ourselves to funding from the state treasury for the week - these are the so-called laws that are well-intentioned and keep businesses in good financial condition - and to give more energy, will, money from the state treasury to open new jobs, to find new added value, because this will be in a causal link, also in close causation with social sustainability. We know if the worker has a job that somehow social dialogue can be possible. But if the crowds are in the institution, without work, then it is probably hard to convince the hungry one that he still has to seal the belt. And if we have the opening up of new jobs that we see in several segments, we can also count on the financial sustainability of the country, because from this tax field, from which we also collect for these programmes, money is getting smaller. The government predicts that because the coming crisis may be even greater at some point, it will have even less financial inadequacy. Where do we see the possibility of additional employment or job creation? Mostly in construction. See, two years ago, the National Assembly adopted guarantees for a thorough rehabilitation of rail infrastructure, and projects have not yet begun to be implemented, although we know that the railway project of the second track and the comprehensive rehabilitation of the rail system in money is almost as difficult as the whole highway programme. Second. We think that we should be doing intensive housing construction now, because construction is more affordable and young people need housing. This is also an investment through a housing fund that will be able to be paid tomorrow. And this investment for the country is not a waste of money. If we find that this multi-application factor in construction can be even greater, then this is another reason to start right now. In the area of the introduction of public works, we are also dead, and just to mention one area, the use of biomass, which could be properly sold in quality due to the growth of Slovenia, is also an untapped area. And if you want, I spoke to the Secretary of Defense earlier; the military has a very well-fed human resources structure. She too would like to see more employees in this segment, and somehow we cannot obtain new ones who would be willing to enter into a working relationship with the military. More investment should be made, more efforts should be made to find new jobs and less efforts should be made in bureaucratic complex matters. I have carefully read, as far as possible, this programme for the implementation of the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the first page, you have already stated that the worsening economic outlook will also have an impact on the significant increase in the public-financial deficit this year. That's what I'm talking about right now, that's this tax field that doesn't fertilize it, and if you don't mature it, you're gonna fertilize it, and you're gonna sow it right, you're not gonna have enough tomorrow to pay the government and the police and the military. We'll have a strike there, too. If forgiveness follows and unemployment increases, if indebtedness increases, indebtedness, by the way, Slovenia is greater than Slovenia's former indebtedness, we must adopt more than social laws and we must give the opportunity to those who are ready for this knowledge acquired in our colleges to leave here in our economy. Nor is it appropriate for us to think about extending our working time at this time of crisis. The extension of working time is out of the question, as this will neglect the sophisticated knowledge of young people and prevent the first job. With the first job of young people, those who come from college, we can create new added values. I come from Primorska, I would focus on the problem that I see and is very large in the area of all Slovenia. The maritime sector has the highest unemployment rate. Instead of being a government, as a parliament, as an institution that has a potential impact on the economy, the state as such, instead of treating those companies that can still be cured, I will give the MIP a case and cut out this tumor when the time is right, we are reviving the dead. We allowed, let's say that the MIP with a good brand goes bankrupt, the workers are on the road, even in Prekmurje there are a lot of workers on the road. Today, we have a problem when we are looking for a lost brand of opportunity and instead of the country reaching in with fresh capital, giving new people with a new name of the company if you want, and new managers, and the old ones being treated as criminals and asked for responsibility, we are watching, we are silently observing what is going to happen. Tomorrow, when there's only ashes in the burning ground, we're gonna want to save this company. Too late! This is the resuscitation of a dead man with electroshocks. It's a pointless act. Finally, I would like to say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in another context, for example, is a successful entrepreneur with a failed result. Look at the example of a government plane when we go to a rental car and rent a plane, behind are millions of stories, in losses of course, and no one will be responsible for it. If only that money we lost on this portfolio of buying and renting aircraft were to be put in the economy, in the revitalisation, in the new jobs, today we might also have some more factory. I welcome these measures. I believe the government will have to try. However, I am not satisfied with the fact that the government does not want to seek responsibilities with others, knowledge with others, and that it does not know how to listen to the wise counsel of others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u30	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, the position will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a package of measures to improve the economic crisis and social situation in the Republic of Slovenia prepared by the opposition party, the Slovenian Democratic Party. The content and purpose, the goals, the reasons, the international recommendations have already been widely discussed by the speakers before me. In fact, I do not really know how to respond as a representative of the Slovenian People's Party's Group to the material prepared for this point. Why? In the whole story, if we read the material correctly, there are only two presidents of Vlad, only Janez Janša and Borut Pahor. The package of measures is read as a Slovenian fairy tale or fairy tale in a battle between good and evil or as a document for the divorce of the marriage of two offended spouses. And a couple of cases. The government of Janez Janš has achieved this and that, and the government of Borut Pahor has failed to achieve this and this. The government of Borut Pahor responds to the crisis too slowly, and the government of Janez Janša has taken most of the anti-crisis measures. The government of Borut Pahor has not yet proposed; the government of Janez Janša has already proposed. Such a black and white story can be traced through the entire material. Ladies and gentlemen, may I remind you that so far all governments have been made up of several political parties. And that was the quality or added value of the work of all coalition governments so far. The Slovenian People's Party was also part of a coalition of the former government, as some other parties are part of this coalition. So we do not accept such a vocabulary in the Slovenian People's Party. The government of Janez Janša without the Slovenian People's Party and the other two political parties, New Slovenia and DeSUS, in such content, and we also believe in efficiency, would not exist. So much for the battle between good and evil. Indeed, the global economic crisis has caught up and is also affecting Slovenia. We join the criticisms of the slow response of the current government, or we can say quite responsibly of the current government. All the time we have been dealing with the economic crisis in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we advocate measures that would have a direct and immediate impact on the liquidity of business operators, the promotion of investment, technological development, the development of research and so on. So far, no measures have been taken to give the economy the opportunity or the conditions for them to come out of this crisis with as few scratches as possible. The measures that promote the reduction of production and business activities and, on the other hand, translate into an assessment of financial effects are subject to our constant criticism. Unfortunately, Mr President, it is true that you are reacting too slowly and inadequately. You have taken over the government's leadership and thus the responsibility for the fate of the Slovenian state and its citizens. Looks like you can't decide what to do with it right now. You are forcing opposition parties to act in position with your inactivity and overslowness. You invite us to cooperate, but on the other hand, our Members and your Members and Ministers in the Cali have suppressed all our constructive attempts to help resolve the situation. You've offered a partnership for development, except for the nice words, which unfortunately we're attracted to with disappointment, there's nothing left. Dear colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we respect your efforts and your constructive suggestions and attempts to defend the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenian citizens and citizens against the worst consequences of the global and economic crisis. If we monitor activity in the National Assembly, one might think that you are leading the Slovenian state. But sometimes you overdo it in your performances. Not all the bad things that the current government is doing, and far from being the best thing we have done together in the previous government. And if I go further back, it wasn't all bad in the previous governments. If everything were as simple as reading from the material and your suggestions, we would have estimated that many could have been done by the time of our common previous government. Many measures are not directly related to the crisis, according to our estimates, but rather to what is said to be the state's current operation, which is not, but measures that are a permanent task for all in public administration. This does not mean that they are not necessary and that they would not be supported by the Slovenian People's Party in the Group. Let me reiterate, we are assessing the proposed measures positively and will also support all the laws under consideration today. They're concrete and determined. To you, Mr President of the Government, we appeal, take on the responsibility that the electorates have given you and that has been voted upon you in the National Assembly. The devil took a joke. And far away is the situation when it was enough before the TV screens to say some nice words and accompany them with a smile. We look forward to concrete action, Mr President-in-Office of the Government. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support all proposals for laws that we will assess to benefit Slovenian citizens and citizens and citizens and Slovenian countries, both governmental and opposition laws. We're available to you if you want help. An in-depth dialogue between the coalition and the opposition would be needed at this time more than ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u32	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Before moving on to the general debate of MEPs and Members, he asked the mag for a debate. Mr Mitja Gaspari, Minister for Development and European Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u33	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In this opportunity, I would like to say two things in the beginning. It's impossible to mix the two papers you have on your desk today. One paper is a proposal from one of the opposition parties, which is legitimate, which is otherwise written in such a way as to distinguish between what is enshrined in the proposal of the five laws and what is written as an idea plan of action. That's one. These are not measures, this is an idea plan for the preparation of measures that might then turn into a legal act of the National Assembly or, if supported, a legal act of the Government, such as a regulation. Another time. The Government's material is not a response to the document of SDS Members or of the parliamentary group, but is a description of the activities carried out by the Government since December of last year. So it's not a document that deals with or wants to communicate with documents that are the basic document for an extraordinary session, but it's simply inventory, showing, I hope to say, a little more systematic than has been assessed, what the Government has done so far in this area of crisis management. This is merely a methodological remark, since the debate has shown that certain things are getting mixed up. Mr Janša even misrepresented both documents twice or three times when he spoke about what the document contained, but it was only a lapsus. In view of the things that have been said mainly by Mr Janša, who was the introductory speaker, I would like to comment on something and then move on to the substantive side, that is what the concept of dealing with the crisis is. That concepts can be different is clear, but that can also compare and identify which one is better. For the first time, some marginal comments, because Mr Janša also started with them, about Lehman Brothers and the rigidity of the banking system. As regards Lehman Brothers, the Bank of Slovenia, as far as I was aware, informed the relevant committee of the National Assembly that the two bonds of this financial company were purchased at the end of 2006 and at the beginning of 2007. So at a time when we were able to listen to one of the Slovenian celebrations of the statement that the sea is quiet, some small clouds and a lighthouse somewhere in the middle of the sea. So no expressions of concern or any expectation of worsening economic trends. At that time, this society, of which today there was a lot to talk about, was a company with the best rating, as some other international institutions had, that is, a so-called triple A, which was granted to this company by the rating agencies, not by international institutions. This is also confirmed by the official statements made by the European Central Bank at the end of last year or March of this year that the investment of the central banks that are members of the euro area in the Lehman Brothers papers is several billion euros that the Chinese Central Bank currently has investment in this institution goes beyond $100 billion, I suppose because it is invested in dollar form. Therefore, it was not the irresponsible conduct of the Bank of Slovenia at the time, nor was it the Governor, who, of course, did not decide, not then, nor before and not after it, which concrete papers would be purchased at a particular time, but were engaged in the relevant services of that bank. However, they have an appropriate strategy adopted by the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, the President of which is also the Governor. The Governor shall not sign any documents relating to the purchase or sale of certain financial instruments. Like I said, those papers were bought back then. This institution went bankrupt at the end of 2008. There are more than one year differences between January 2007 and October 2008. In 2007-September, no one said that there was any problem in the financial system or even a crisis. So much for that. Now there's something else about the rigidity of the banking system. By the way, the consequences of what has been stated will not be for taxpayers, since Banka Slovenije has adequate reserves, like any other central bank, which also covers potential losses from its investments. If you had no reserves, it would mean that you would serve badly. Apparently, this institution has served well in the past to create adequate reserves. Now for the banking system and the rigidity. The way in which the bank of Maribor is recapitalised, the privatisation pardon, and the way in which the Bank of Ljubljana is recapitalised are very controversial from this point of view of the quality of the financial system and the problems that may arise in the future. In the case of the Bank of Maribor, only privatisation took place instead of recapitalisation. In this way, the bank has been deprived of an additional capital injection, which in these times would still have come in handy for its solvency. The same is true for the New Ljubljana Bank, where the recapitalisation has been discussed for more than a year, and this recapitalisation has finally been carried out in such a way that today the New Ljubljana Bank has no use. Not to mention how procedures were followed to resell the shares of the Bank of Nova Ljubljanska Bank to a provider that I cannot officially appoint. So much for these parallel or less important extra things. Now, about the concept and how Slovenia came to be in the area of crisis. It was said that the situation was extremely good and that Slovenia even obtained the first budget surplus. I am pleased that today it has been said, not in the entire history of independent Slovenia, but since it was said that since it has been measured statistically according to the so-called ESA principle, because this country has had some budgetary surplus in previous years before this event. The surplus was 0.3% of the social product, in growth which was slightly less than 7% in that year. Those who want to search the euro area statistics to limit themselves to the euro area alone will find that countries that had twice or three times less growth than Slovenia had one or two times more budget surpluses in that year. This is a good result, which is not exceptional in nature, given the circumstances in which it has been achieved. If the reserve were bigger, it would be so much better. A deficit of the same size as last year's surplus has been achieved since 2008, which is still mainly led by the government of Janša. This is said to have been 0.3% deficit and economic growth has halved from more than 6.7% to 3.5% this year. These are, say, objective circumstances. The balance sheet deficit has increased significantly during this period. And this is the basic reason why the debt of the Republic of Slovenia, not the country, the whole Republic of Slovenia, has increased so dramatically in recent years. This debt is not, of course, problematic from the point of view of having a currency of its own and this currency could be threatened, but because it will lead to significantly greater restrictions in the economy on the repayment of these debts. This was a few good and relatively average starting positions that Slovenia had at the time of entry into the crisis. Now some of those who have not been very helpful do not care who we attribute them to because they have had an objective impact on the situation Slovenia is in. This is about, I will just count, the majority of fiscal measures in 2008 that have brought about a reduction in fiscal revenues in Slovenia by about EUR 500 million and an increase in fiscal expenditure by about EUR 250 million. If we add this up, it's 2% of the social product. The measures adopted in 2008 run counter to the basic concept of tax reform, which was carried out in 2006 and 2007, which was good because, for the first time, it reduced the number of tax burden rates because in some cases it increased the tax base because it eliminated selective tax reliefs and in this part it received support from the general public. However, we can discuss whether he was completely fair from the point of view of individual social groups, but this is one of the problems that any tax reform has. However, the measures for 2008 have, I don't know why, gone in a completely different direction. The crisis was not yet in Slovenia until autumn 2008, not officially or informally. Free kindergarten for another child, student food subsidies, abolition of a tax on a payment sheet that would not have been commented on because it was good and a reduction in the rate of tax on the income of legal persons. The tax base was tightened, the number of exemptions increased and the general tax rate decreased. These three just don't work together. I'm sorry, Mr. Tanko, it's not going together. There was no reason for such a change in the tax system as you carried out in 2008. Third thing, about pay policy. I think that now we can all admit no matter what anyone thinks about reform itself, that its consequences are relatively negative. 200 million euro of additional costs in 2009 so that we do not have any better situation in the pay area in individual sectors in the public sector: health, education, research, culture, higher education. We have a rigid system because we have classified people into classes, and we expect them to be innovative, independent, autonomous and productive. In this way, the public sector will not be more productive and innovative if we consider the state administration, and it will not be more self-sustaining, because people are not stimulated to behave this way. This is the main problem of this salary reform, not some of its details and the classification of individual professions into individual classes, which is something that is difficult to achieve with the hand of an administrator or policy. As regards public finances in 2008 and the transition to 2009, where there is a very interesting issue, namely that now is the time to increase the responsibility to resolve some vital issues of the Slovenian economy. Currently, there is a deficit of over 5% in Slovenia. By decomposing this deficit, some more than two points contributed to the 2008 measures, which have consequences in 2009, an empirical fact that cannot be denied. The second effect, when we accumulate this 5% and a few percent, is simply stated by the so-called automatic stabilisers, and the loss of tax resources and the increase in tax expenditure due to the crisis, because the tax base is simply narrowing down and the need for social care and normal social cohesion require additional resources, which are enforced by laws, are not available or unwilling by the state. These measures mean, as you saw in our tables, an additional 2% of GDP, that is to say, we came up with just over 4%, the difference of up to 5 and a half are fiscal measures taken by this government. Now there is something about this free will that is needed, desirable, or necessary. None of these deficits, which will be more than 5%, is the will of Slovenia anymore, and is no longer a matter of our own judgment for a simple reason, because there will be no external funding for such forms of increased deficit. Take a look this year, this year will see around €3 000 billion additional demand in the European best debt market in Europe, the best rated countries and the best rated companies. In such a case, of course, it is questionable whether there will be sufficient financial resources for all those who will appear with individual claims such as Slovenia, smaller size and what rating Slovenia has at this time. This is why it is no longer the free will of Slovenia, so we cannot decide for ourselves which deficit is suitable or inappropriate for us. This is why we are in a situation where we choose between different, not always among very good, options, but we are talking about so-called "second west" or other best solutions. And this is the basic dilemma that we have with you in these various proposals that appear as proposals that can solve all major problems in Slovenia. I hope that with regard to the entry into the euro, and what benefits this has brought to Slovenia and to its economy, we agree and we hope that not all credit is given to the Government, when the euro has also been adopted, at least some say empirical facts show that this merit can be shared. It has been said that we have relatively well-developed small and medium-sized enterprises that will, of course, solve the problem in Slovenia. The problem of the Slovenian economy will solve all companies, not only individual ones, not only small ones, not only medium ones, but also large ones. Without the big ones there are no small ones, and without the little ones there are no successful politicians. So this artificial segmentation, what someone will bring, is very relative. At a certain stage, it employs more in small jobs, comes the stage when more will be employed in large ones. At least hope so. And another note when it comes to unemployment. You know, everywhere in Europe, this unemployment will continue to grow when the trend of economic growth is already on the rise. Because it's a phenomenon, a mechanism that comes with a delay. I'm sorry. And Slovenia, when it has been said what Slovenia can do alone, with its own consumption, is quite clear that the economy, which has 75% of its own social product in international trade, with its own domestic consumption, cannot replace what is occurring in external exchange, with no fiscal measure, because it is too weak a fiscal sector that could actually do so, unless the country is in a situation like some of our neighbouring countries in recent years. Why the debt? For development and things like that. Yes, but I can show you one document - unfortunately we don't have any screen here where it could be - we're in the process of preparing a document called "To the goals of a targeted budget", which the Government will start implementing for the 2010/2011 budget, even the blind can say, it's important to show, only one table you will see and it will be very interesting. This is approximately the result of the year 2000 to 2008 - the share of development policies that we have not invented, but we have taken them from documents that now officially exist in Slovenia, the Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. The development strategy, the National Development Programme, the Development Plans Resolution and the Lisbon Strategy for the Purposes of Cohesion, which are recorded in one other document. If you look at a picture of the operation of these documents on the state budget, the lines are equal in nine years. Is there something wrong with the development documents or with the implementation of the national budget? Something must be wrong. The share of these policies in the social product is more or less constant, even with some decline to 2005, about 18%. So much for facts about how to invest and invest in development. Without the state budget changing in its logic, the method of thinking in the methodology, there will be no change as regards development priorities and their application. If the budget is based on items and ministries, then we will not talk about programmes. If we don't talk about programs, we won't talk about development priorities. And if we don't talk about it, we won't know where to invest the money. It's very simple. And that's what's happening to us. If you look at the priority dilemmas we have at this moment in energy, in transport, then you will see that nothing is helping us with the resolution, but that the lobbies are usually working. All the last years and even now. And we're going to spend a lot of money on individual big investments that aren't necessarily developmental, even though they work developmentally. And we're going to have environmental problems along with them that we can't solve, and we're going to spend a lot of money on individual big investments that aren't necessarily developmental, even though they work developmentally. And we will have environmental problems that we will not know how to solve, and we will pay for them in the various policies that the EU has. I hope we are aware that this moment has not yet calculated what the Copenhagen meeting of December this year means. Slovenia doesn't have it yet. She didn't have it last year, and she doesn't have it right now. A similar assessment is that the other countries that are underdeveloped should transfer around 100 million euros annually. This is not in any development concept, it is not in any document actually written. I must say that I think that what Mr Janša said at the beginning of the debt and development must be somewhat more fragmented, justified, and then we will have a debate which, in my view, can be debated at the time of the rebalancing, but even better at the 2010 and 2011 state budget, because in the form of a budget presentation, it will be possible to talk about development priorities, not about curves, sidewalks and similar things, which is usually the most interesting debate in the National Assembly. Developmental axes, railway infrastructure, these are projects that are supposed to raise domestic investment consumption in order to also acquire some start-ups, although the multiplier is a relatively small economy, such as Slovenia. No document has been prepared for the construction of the railway track, no document for the third development axis has been prepared. How do we start building and when? The documents currently in existence for spatial installation of the facilities need about five years for each facility. This is the current situation in this area, which has not been the situation since yesterday or before. We've had this situation for years. All changes in the law in this area have not done anything about the priority placement of facilities in the space. Nothing. We're where we were. However, we want to have some stimulating investment policy in the area of two, in my view, of the main Slovenian priorities that we have because of the strategic situation that we have only geographically at present, I hope that it will also become an economic one. This is traffic and energy. The third strategic priority of Slovenia does not have the size to be defined as a high priority. However, we cannot agree on which energy facilities we will build and we cannot agree on how we will train transport infrastructure without stopping, but that traffic will run through it and that traffic flows will fill those infrastructure facilities we have. Something about concrete actions or philosophy. I agree with what was said at the outset, that the crisis in Slovenia came through two channels, namely the financial sector, to block the credit system in Europe, not Slovenia, and, secondly, through individual industrial branches affected by the crisis in Europe and not Slovenia. This is about banks on a European scale and it is about the automotive industry in the European scale. These were two channels through which we felt the crisis in Slovenia, somewhere since last November. I hope, however, that the first measures already taken on the deposit scheme and on guarantees have already been adopted in cooperation with both governments at the transition. We have been very much involved in this, even though the final version of this legislation is as it is today. However, we do not consider this to be of particular benefit to ourselves. The first measure had to be adopted, depository, for a simple reason, because such a measure was taken by the neighbouring state of Austria. Otherwise, the deposits of the population would begin to disappear from Slovenia across the border to Austria. It's very simple. We accepted it a little late, but we obviously accepted it in time. Some accepted it in October and September of last year. Secondly, with regard to the guarantee potential, there is no better measure to depreciate the initial shock of the crisis if it comes from a financial system such as a reduction of uncertainty. There is no fiscal resource, no subsidy, no transfer that could replace the reduction of economic uncertainty. Economic uncertainty is not reduced by fiscal measures, but by measures to reduce uncertainty in the financial system. Massive damage can happen if the financial system does not work. Not because someone would want to defend the banks, but because it's a vital part of the system, which is also based on credit. That is why these measures were supported and adopted on both sides, if that is what you want. The third measure, which was necessary and still necessary, is a measure to bring liquidity from the banking sector to businesses. In Slovenia, banks have sufficient liquidity in the short term. That's not a problem. The problem is that they do not have medium-term resources to be able to borrow small, medium and large enterprises in the medium term. Not for three months, but for six months, one year, two years, three years. That's why we went to the SID bank recapitalisation. And it is not true what Mr Janša says, otherwise he says he has heard that this institution works poorly. I have here papers that I will not read about what has already been done by this bank this year, that the situation is better than it would have been without the functioning of this institution to such an extent and in such a way: the basic source of funding for a car cluster through the European Investment Bank was organised through the SID Bank and now, in June also effective to help this industry, not to keep employees, but to invest in new products so that it can be included in the next phase in its main customers in the new technological products that are embedded in cars. Over 100 million euros will be made available for this purpose and will go through this institution. This institution carried out two or three important measures in January, February and March that even credit activity at this time ran as normal in Slovenia. I therefore do not agree that the result of the operation of this institution is uncertain or even poor. If you ask most economists, by the way, how can they guarantee this moment their export transactions, your export risks in risk markets, you will get an answer via the Bank's SID. As regards the opinion of the international institutions. Here I think that Mr Janša has quoted certain things incorrectly enough or biasedly. If you want, I could even read to you in English what an assessment of the International Monetary Fund about Slovenia is on one and a half pages. And I'm not going to read it because you know this document. So you will see that the reference to this document, in the way it was said, is incorrect because there is a document that anyone can read. I cannot quote the OECD document because it is not official, it will become official when Mr Gorija presents it as an official document in Ljubljana and will then also be able to comment on this document, at least on my part, it can become what it is now by some others. However, I also agree with Mr Visiak that there is a lot of good in this document that should be taken into account, but in particular think about it. The same applies to documents of the European Union that have recently come to the public. This is mainly a document that assesses economic policy measures in Slovenia. And there is no criticism in this document of the measures taken so far. However, if I comment on the line of action taken with regard to temporary full-time financing, you will recall that the social partners in the phase, when the Government has proposed another measure, which, by the way, the International Monetary Fund is very much in favour of, and this is a reduction in the rate of contribution for pension insurance by enterprises by about 3 percentage points, temporarily, until economic activity has recovered again, the social partners on both sides have rejected. And this measure, which is now in force, was the second best measure, which currently protects about 60 to 70 000 employees in Slovenia. Whether this is merely a short-term and non-solid measure will prove to be when it is no more. I doubt that the employees employed today through this measure will agree that this measure was macro-economically blind. This measure cannot be permanent, this measure can only be temporary. And you know that. The extension, if it comes to him, will only be one thing. The government will once again propose a measure called a reduction in the contribution rate for the economy. Whether the social partners will accept it, and respected, in the National Assembly, we will see when it has to be accepted. I also comment in a way on the need for 75% of all measures to be used for unloading and 25% for social measures. I have to say that this is some very strange logic that I don't understand how someone can calculate that 75% of some measures need to be taken to relieve and 25% for social measures. All measures at this time help the economy in different ways. And if you think you can make a proposal now something about the laws that are proposed. [[...]] If the law, say value added tax, proposes to raise the threshold for paid realisation to €7.5 million, in which case in Slovenia, 92% of all entities liable to VAT would enter this extraordinary regime, then I do not know where that would lead. Are you aware that the Value Added Tax Act is based on an account, not an instrument of payment? How will you then exercise control over who will carry it out? It doesn't matter if it's 7 days or 21 days or 60 days, it doesn't matter. And that's the basic taxation of this country. There is no other person with the scope of VAT. If you think this is the wrong instrument, then let's go back to the Transport Tax Act, which was exactly what you're proposing as an exception to this law. We cannot go back because the VAT law is a European law. And Europe provides an exception for a paid realization of €7 million. Do you know why? Because it is oriented towards large countries, where 7 million is something other than Slovenia is 7 million. Also because the added value of the employee is about twice as high as in Slovenia. We should be careful, therefore, when we are vehemently proposing measures to relieve the economy, which in the next step can represent a relatively high burden on the economy at the other end. This will not continue, we can adopt this law, we can also do so, just then make a proposal on how the expenditure side of the state budget will also start, not only in the short term, but structurally reduce. There are no proposals in your document on a serious pension reform. A few clues, by the way. What you're reading to us. There are no references to health reform, by the way. Nothing serious. Currently there are 23 hospitals in Slovenia with a loss. Kumulative amounts to more than €40 million. It's cumulative. Over the years, because it's cumulative, it sure is. There's data - look at them! Look at them, Mr. Visjak, you'll see. There's no reason for me to lie to you. It's data. It's not my judgment. I don't think some dialogue is bad if you want it. So I think there are other measures, three measures that are old. Three laws are old. Three tax laws are from January. Tell me, what a relief this is at this point, a further increase in investment relief, when the problem of private sector investment is even to decide on investment?Oh, my God! It is not a problem that he lacks the profits to invest, as this is the uncertainty that deters him from investing and tax relief does not help him. Nothing at all. We've reduced the general tax rate to 21, the second year is probably 20. At the same time, you propose to continuously increase exceptions, selective reliefs. Have you looked at how many entities have entered these selective reliefs? You have in response to the material that you have prepared, the numbers written down, how many entities have entered these selective reliefs. Do you have proof that they meant some generally good influence for the Slovenian economy?Oh, my God! However, we have spent €185 million on this. What is the impact of €185 million?Oh, my God! That's probably what you'll say in your own explanation. After all, measures should be assessed in terms of their effectiveness when they are adopted. We think it is necessary to combine measures that increase the possibility of investment in the public sector, which you will even read in the documents of the International Monetary Fund, has been cited. We do it where it's possible, where it's even ready to invest. And it will invest in 13 Slovenian hospitals for their energy savings. It's a project that started to run. When we wanted to do the same project with the University of Maribor, we found that the projects were not ready. They're not ready for projects, they're just not. You can't start doing something like we're doing at the Clinical Center ER when we're designing with the construction. This is how the investment in the Clinical Center is now running around, and then we are surprised that the costs of such investments are enormous. Public sector investment. We'd like to start working the second rail track if anything was ready. The implementation plans are now being drawn up, and now the law will be changed to place it in a room so that this unfortunate track may even be built. And it won't build in one year, but it'll build in a few years. The same applies to energy objects. We have an offer to the state for two gas plants so that we don't continue what we're all talking about. About investments that will go over a billion euros. And we don't have any money for her, by the way. But this has been agreed upon in the past. Regarding corporate lending and guarantee schemes. The guarantee scheme was prepared with one very logical basis. This is not a law for rehabilitation or for banks or businesses. This is a law for normalising credit for good businesses in the country. When the marriage came to Parliament, he left it as a law for the rehabilitation of businesses. Mr. Visjak knows that. Not mainly because you have increased the amount for the worst committees from EUR 200 to EUR 400 million, which is why we now have problems with the European Commission, which does not understand and does not want to give consent. And he doesn't want to give consent because there's been a reprogramming of credit in the law. And I'm asking you, who did you think you were reprogramming for at the time, which is why we have problems now, which is why the bet is being drawn. We will go forward with the scheme, even if we do not get permission from the European Commission, because it is too important a measure to stop it because of such trifling. However, this is a warning to Parliament, when you are changing certain things, you should also keep in mind European legislation on state aid. Do not forget these restrictions, which exist there, that then we will not be doing what is now happening to us on highways because of vineyards when we cannot use either 30 million or 80 million euros Yes, Mr Petan, unfortunately it is true. [[...]] There's documents and evidence for that. And Mr. Janša said this morning that the problem is now with excise duties. I would ask you if this is an advantage for Slovenia, what we experienced when we built a highway cross, that we now have such a bologna from Kopra to Prekmur, all kinds of trucks, bad, good, whatever you want [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Yes, yes, but at the same time we are talking about how Slovenia will be an environmentally friendly country. [[...]] [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Yeah, they're driving, of course. [[...]] I'll tell you. You weren't worried about last year when you established the vines and lost your sense of money for that same purpose that you're now reading. You lost your money. Dars has less money this year than he did last year. Less. Why was it necessary to introduce guilt in such a way, why not in such a way that money was more than that? Who raised the essential price of transporting trucks across Slovenian territory. What government? This one, a month ago, not the previous one, while lowering the cost of passenger cars over vignettes. There's something wrong with logic. But what you're saying about excise duties, by the way, I agree with you. The excise duty in Slovenia must be an anticyclical measure. When prices go up, excise duties must be reduced. When they go down or the other way around. In order to remain the same price of petrol, when the price of petrol rises in the external markets, excise duty decreases. When it's the other way around, you can pick it up and get some extra resources. Is that how you did it? Go look at the data and you'll see. Do you know why you brought her down? Inflation. With this I would slowly finish this part and finally say one more thing that will be interesting to all of you on Tuesday, even with regard to these loans, I would just give some numbers to make the discussion a little easier. In 2004, investments in non-monetary financial institutions were generally financial holding companies in Slovenia, and I will not deliberately comment on which holding companies are Taiwanese and which are not, I also leave this to Mr Visiak to suggest this in the course of the debate on amendments. In 2004, it was €700 million, in 2005 it was 1 billion, in 2006 billion and a half, in 2007 it was 2.3 billion and in 2008 it was 2.8 billion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u34	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Župevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think the minister who just performed has made excellent starting points. To begin with, let me ask the opposition proponents of the marriage package one question, we can call it a million-dollar question. How many million are your suggestions? How much would it cost us? This is a key issue. Why? Because one is likeness, and the other, as Minister Gaspari has just explained, is reality. And then these are public finances and our debt and the burdens that we impose on future generations. It's right that we're honest with each other. Members of the coalition can, for example, introduce a law proposing that all citizens and citizens be provided with a minimum wage of EUR 2,000. But unfortunately we can't do that because there's no money for it because there's no resources and because that would be irresponsible. And I have no doubt in my mind that you would call our doing so even unconstitutional. I am sure that one of your proposals is also good and that we will accept it in the coming days. And instead of wasting everything today for about 20 hours, we could use these hours more constructively. I admit to you, we can't tell you that you're not trying to make any proposals, but you're in no position to do so. You ruled in times when economists and bankers call them so-called "bloomy years," this is a period of conjuncture, rise, flourish. And the international organizations and institutions to which you refer today recognize one thing, and it is that those who have been "bloomy years" warned that the so-called "gloomy years" are coming, that is, the dark, dark times were then overheared. They were labeled pessimistic, pitiful. And these same international organizations, which you will refer to today, unfortunately ring the bells, but point out one more thing: that during these "bloomy years" countries have carried out major structural reforms, today in this financial crisis, a little better than other countries that have not done so. That's a fact. It's not my political observation, it's some sort of observation. That's the conclusion of the others. And if we're building on a balance sheet that's not good today, on a bad basis, it's different than building a house on solid and good foundations. And no final bill that we have adopted under duress in this House changes this picture. Since this was not a statistical operation, as was said today, it was a political decision. And the minister who spoke before me gave some concrete information. Let me do the same. Economic growth has been based on increased indebtedness since the beginning of 2005. The most pronounced increase in gross external debt was in 2007, which means that the growth of 6.8 GDP was based on unhealthy foundations. The total external gross debt increased from EUR 15 billion to almost EUR 40 billion in the previous government's mandate. With the record economic growth you are talking about, and I am pleased that we have had record economic growth, it is also true that we have had record inflation. And if they were active anti-inflation measures, they could have lower inflation than they were. The reckless tax reform abolished the investment relief, which, according to the Chamber of Commerce, increased the efficient taxation of companies. These companies, however, also transferred the costs of higher taxation to end-users with higher service prices. With tax reform, you have abolished 4% of the tax relief to solve the housing problem. For this relief you have deprived 145 thousand 825 taxpayers. And the claim that with this tax reform, everyone was better, not holding, not drinking water. The highest level of income became the most burdensome, while the middle and lower ones were significantly less burdened. And tax reform has also underburdened wage taxation. Due to a change in Dars' funding, Dars was already in charge of 3.77 billion in September 2008. The changed mode of debt-based financing threatened the financial stability or sustainability of Dars. We have also been extremely poor in drawing on European funds. That's what the data is talking about. That's not my political judgment. In 2007, the revenue generated from the European Union's funds was 40% or 234 million euros lower than the budget planned and so on. That's the data. These are not political judgments. And today it was talked about creating new jobs and data and what the international institutions are saying, both left and right and up and down. This graph says "unemployment rates". Here is the European Union - the EU. And that's where we are. And to talk about it and to make comparisons that we're out there somewhere, we're weak, we don't know anything. When specifying the data, please also indicate any data showing any trends, any analyses. You, from what you read, excite what you most value for your argument. Be right, be honest! So are we. And it is right to tell ourselves what kind of fundamentals we build on. And when you talk about consensus and cooperation. I am experiencing this consensus and this cooperation in this Parliament on my own skin every day. I can't say, it's a wonderful, fantastic collaboration. And those who say that really mean it? So the call to work together; I absolutely agree with it, but those who say so are unfortunately not honest. You need to be honest about these things if you want to be credible, because otherwise you're not. And when you give data, you have to give the whole picture, not just peel one data. And I'm sure when it comes to talking about how we didn't know certain things, ignorance didn't excuse them. Ignorance for someone who ran the country is no excuse. It's a matter of responsibility. Ignorance does not excuse the bad decisions made by someone else because the government that runs the country has a responsibility. Just as this government now has a responsibility to run this country, so have you. And if you are serious, then stop wasting valuable time in this House and be constructive, but in a way that is truly constructive. And if I ever hear about the closing bill again. See, if a political decision has been made in this House to confirm something for another purpose, then there is a completely different topic. I did not vote in favour of this final account and therefore do not recognise it. And all the terrible economists who are about to come after me, one has swallowed up all the economic knowledge in this world, I am sure that he will be able to shed light on many aspects of these stories and that he will tell us that this government has indeed done absolutely nothing good, and he will be able to illuminate other salaries, propose phenomenal measures. Be honest with yourself first and then with citizens and citizens. For the last four years, you've been running this country, and if you're constructive, then show it by action, not just by words. Mr. Janša came, said his words, and left. He doesn't care what anyone else has to say about it. So this is the pear before the election? I'm talking about the proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u36	Thank you. Mr. Visjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Chairman. I regret that neither the President of the Government nor the Minister of Development can hear me, because he is not in the Chamber, but, however, it has been said that we should present any trends. These are trends of increasing unemployment in Slovenia. On the ninth month of last year, there were about 60 thousand, now about 85,000. These are trends. Nice curve. This means that the situation in the country is more than alarming and requires action. It does not require action and measures to be taken in five years or four, three years from now, I do not say that they are not necessary, we must take action immediately and must act immediately. This is why we have proposed decommissioning the economy, reducing taxes, selectively, especially for those who invest, invest in development, new jobs. However, since we have very little time, Mr Janša has already spoken, I will be talking about some other measures, which are also not mentioned, so-called, tax holidays. We propose that the newly established companies be exempted from paying the tax for a period of three years. They will pay contributions, they will hire people, they will hire themselves, and, honourable Member, here is the result of the loss for the state of zero. Because they're not paying you anything today, either. And if there's a new company that starts paying employee contributions and pays people's wages, it's going to be more positive. As far as taxes are concerned, it'll be the same thing. Second. We are proposing VAT after a paid realization, that is to say, raising the threshold to a European comparable level. We have previously listened to the Minister of Development that the larger countries have set this threshold so high. The VAT is not paid by the state, it is paid by companies, the structure of companies is important. Small and medium-sized enterprises are owned by Germans, Austrians, Sweden, French, Italians and Slovenians. And for this reason, it is right that small businesses that feel the most now also the extension of payment deadlines pay when they actually get the money. But not when they have to put out an account and then wait for a payment that's not there. Therefore, we propose in terms of decommissioning these companies with such income, 22% of these companies are to be allowed to do fair work in some way as well. They're not bad companies! These companies made their own, they put out invoices, they had to pay the tax immediately when the invoice was issued, and the money is not and because the country is also extending payment deadlines, large companies are extending payment deadlines. And small and medium-sized companies don't get for a decent, quality job of money. And that's not fair and that's not right and we need to react, and that's why we're proposing this. It's a credit crunch. The biggest problem is that small and medium-sized enterprises also find it more difficult to obtain credits, development credits and credit reprogrammes. A company has invested in development and needs a reprogramme of credits, as it needed five years ago, for a development project. Even for, let's say, running business. He can't get it. And this was proposed in the Guarantee Scheme Act, but this law has not yet come to life. Six months have passed since we established, through the Public Finance Act, a basis for the State's assistance to the banking sector and the resulting economy, and nothing has happened until today. They're talking to Parliament. I must say, we got the regulation on the table as an implementing act just before, I don't know, 14 days. It's crucial, and the interesting thing is, there's no money. How? But for the Taiwanese loan reprograms, it's money? All four coalition parties have signed an amendment to the guarantee scheme law, thereby giving state guarantees to the so-called Taiwanese loan reprogram. So it's money for them. For small, medium-sized enterprises that are struggling with the economic crisis, however, there is no money. When we talk about infrastructure, investment in infrastructure projects, these investments are necessary. For example, we welcome the direction of the Ministry responsible for electronic communications to accelerate investment in the construction of a broadband highway or broadband network. These things are "ready to go." These things can be done very quickly, you don't need strong state spatial plans for them. We need to speed up the construction of highways. I really don't know why it takes so long to bear with the construction of the lower leg of the highway, for example. We don't even know when he'll be made. They're all documents, all state spatial plans. You have to make out with one car carrier to get you another piece of land. I mean, wherever there is will, there's a way. And please start working. An important measure that we are proposing is a very important measure, but nothing costs, respect, nothing costs, is that it stimulates savers, subsidises interest rates for them, for the so-called long-term austerity schemes. Our portfolio of deposits or savings of citizens in banks is relatively poor, from a banking point of view. A lot of money, but short-term deposits. Why not encourage this in the long term and provide funds to the banks to service the economy? These are measures that can help. And there's one more thing. It is not true that measures, all measures or most measures are bad for the Government. I would like to stress once again that the measures that have been prepared for long-term restructuring and technological progress are good. The calls that go in this direction are good, but they will only work in years. There are also good schemes to help preserve those jobs that have temporarily lost their contracts. These are good measures, we welcome them. Also announced measures, some, this is subsidisation, waiting for work, are good, and some other proposals are good. The lack, however, is felt in measures to stimulate economic activity and to prevent credit crunches. And the number of our actions goes this way. That is why we wanted an open dialogue, so we wanted to propose and we will propose it in the future. And a number of these measures are useful. And I hope you'll take them into account. And then there's something at the end. More cynicism is that the development minister, who was the Governor of Banka Slovenije, who had 38 million, is saying that there will be no consequences for this. So, 38 million euros have disappeared in the Bank of Slovenia portfolio and says nothing will happen. How is nothing going to happen? Somebody's gonna pay that 38 million. The bank’s directors will pay them or all the banks because they will be charged through services.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u38	Thank you. The word is Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I personally look forward today to listening to my colleague, John Janša, for at least an hour in the National Assembly. He evidently responded to the call to be in the National Assembly and to work in the National Assembly. That's a step forward. But for an hour we listened mainly to a political pamphlet. It is clear that this extraordinary meeting, due to take place until three in the morning, is intended primarily to be discussed or to be dealt with by the current government without valid, valid arguments. I hope that the opposition has followed Minister Gaspari's explanations carefully. I warn you that years ago, I think that in 2005, this same Mr Gaspari warned that inflation would occur. At that time he was branded as a national traitor, and then inflation happened, and that is why I still advise: listen to the people who get to know each other on these subjects. In this one-hour debate there were many ideas, many critics, many initiatives. It would be impossible for us not to find something positive in the one-hour debate, something that I would sign immediately. For example, transparency of management contracts. I'll be right there. And I hope that the government will also quickly arrange this and make it possible. But the fact is that we forget that this government has taken over the state of public finances, which was not jealous, and we have also heard why. Things were happening that offered the new government an empty state treasury and also the beginning of the crisis, not because of the opposition or the previous government, but because we were hit by this crisis and this recession at that time. The fact is that the core of the opposition's initiatives stems from a purely neoliberal logic that the economy needs to be unloaded at the expense of the public treasury. This is easy when we have something in public cash registers, it is a little harder when these public cash registers are empty because of the conduct of the previous government. And that's exactly what happened. But not just that. Human resources investments in the economy, political investments in the economy, were also taking place in the previous government. Today in Primorsk we have a black hole, the parade horses of the coastal region are there, we have them in the media, Luka Koper, Intereuropa, Hit and so on. Does Mr. Janša know Mr. Lovšin? Does Mr. Janša know Mr. Timer? Do you know that these are the loyal personnel of the SDS that led to the catastrophic situation of these public or state-owned companies? Well, these are the questions we need to clear up. And if we're talking about the closing account, I'm glad I voted against it. And I will never admit that imposed final account, because I believe in the Court of Justice, I believe the Court of Auditors, and I believe those institutions, including the Europeans, who have told us the truth. Let's stop fooling around. I think that the only initiative we can take is that the dialogue must continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Minister! With these measures, it is certainly not clear to me how this is possible that there are always more people on the road in such an intensive economic policy. Every day, small and medium-sized enterprises are closing down, for which there has always been a lot of talk to help them. Help me out of nowhere. They need to get to know each other as they know and know each other. The meeting of bankers with the Prime Minister must, of course, be welcomed. However, it did not bring immediate action. The banks promise to release credit at the end of the second month, and for most of the companies in crisis, it will not tolerate anything good and it will probably be too late. Banks promise, promises repeat and no epilogue. He's pulling, pulling, and none of that. Borrowing the cramps is still taking time and thus also prevents the resuscitation of the guarantee scheme. The very high overheated demand for credit was fueled by the fear of bankers, including credit crunches. The Bank's activities are ongoing, but the Bank's interests are business cash flows and liquidity. The banking system should work now and immediately, as only a quick reaction to the release of banking services and the short payment deadlines save the liquidity of businesses. Government measures should apply to all banks operating in Slovenia. The government should react quickly, at least in those companies that have programmes and are linked to exports. Social transfers are only one of the plans to alleviate poverty. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u42	Thank you. Your time is up. Mr. Kres. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Saiovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. All together a friendly greeting, including to ministers, coworkers from the Ministry! When the house is on fire, firefighters fight over who will take some part of the fire, it is always difficult. In the countryside and in the farmers, they can meet such things, and, of course, the master who once lost the land, and in the good part of this story this has happened to the previous government, hard to fix and save it. But more than guilt, we need to talk about solutions and cooperation. And I am glad that both the coalition and the opposition are alone, that we are part of the anti-crisis measures, and some of them are certainly going in the right and right direction, done and gathered together, that this is not about ours, not about your actions, but that measures must be for the benefit of all Slovenes and Slovenes. There's quite a few of them, and we've already spent quite a bit of money on them. Let me mention the millions that were the most important: free kindergartens for another child, 10 million, student food subsidies, and this also had to be paid, surprisingly, 32 million, the elimination of the wage imbalances that the Minister of Development said with these millions that we have invested in the public sector instead of investing in the economy, that we have not achieved what we have committed ourselves together, the number of the shaking 204 million. Greater emphasis and greater importance and appreciation would be given by direct action against the crisis. When deleted, the computer stops at 576 million, additional compensation for the unemployed €57 million, and significant money, commends the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, 230 million, restructuring subsidies for companies 17.7 million, tourism support 32 million, technology centre subsidies, competitiveness 60 million and additional EU investments 178 million. That's why it's hard to say that the government hasn't done enough to do it. Something you don't have, never, never in your life, not in politics, not in the economy, not in your private life, you just can't share, because that's not how it works. Even those who build a house do not go on a good and expensive vacation and do not buy expensive cars. In times of crisis, what is most necessary and most urgent is being done. I am interested and pleased, but I have read with respect the SDS party's package of measures. I would like to say that if we had money and if we saw it in public finances that it was definitely necessary and good measures. However, if there is no money, it is difficult to implement them, especially because a large part of these measures were focused primarily on the expenditure side - what to give, what to share, how much for cars, how much for apartments, how much for businesses, and, of course, he forgot that the budget must be actually balanced and harmonised, and in particular that these measures are fiscally possible. It is also certainly necessary to consider how, on the one hand, these measures would help all Slovenian and global economists to agree that the action in this crisis would encourage greater consumption and thus maintain a certain level of activity and employment. Since I also work as mayor in the local environment, I must say that certain measures taken by the Government concerning municipalities to invest in municipalities have certainly been positive and well received. We have received municipalities and we have a solid average, and I must say that the crisis in the municipalities is smaller precisely because with the solid average and the support we have from the country, we can make a large part of the investment in the municipalities. And by doing so, we act in a favourable and countercyclical way. As mayor, I also have to make a strong point of the country's actions towards drawing on European funds, although the anti-Burocratic programme is moving slowly in the ministries, but it is moving forward. If we are able to adopt spatial plans more quickly, and I must say that we have interlocutors in the ministries, then investments will be faster, better and more effective. Of course, everything can't be changed overnight. However, I am convinced that we will all be more successful and better together in the country if we give more emphasis and more importance to cooperation than to cheap and demagogic points-gathering at, say, meetings such as this week, where, of course, the more important impact on the public, the politicisation of the problem, than a united and coherent search for solutions. Recession and difficult situation is this moment in Slovenia for all, both for those who are in coalition, and for those who are in opposition. If we are aware of this, we will certainly be better and more successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u44	Thank you. Mr. Puksich is not here. Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u45	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, Minister and Ministers! Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I must say that, of course, the former economic minister is the last one who can call on the current government and everyone else to work because they are doing bad or nothing. The first two years of his term were not heard and not seen in the National Assembly when the former secretary of state was sitting here. Half his term was in the shadows and he survived somewhere else. That is why he is the last one to be moralized in this regard. For this reason, I believe that the policy that you are doing in the opposition in the way you are doing today, when you say 24 hours a day how good you feel about yourself and how bad you feel about others, is a bad way of looking at politics. Throughout the entire session, trying to see how incompetent and incompetent this government is and how brilliant the previous government, Janša's government, is just a little excessive exaggeration, is killing an auditorium that tries to listen to you for meals. However we turn things around and convert them, the fact that the present is a result of the past and is at the same time a cause for the future. And if you are already critical in the opposition to the present, then note that this criticism is also the result of past practices. I would like to remind you that there was already a great difference in the election of the current ministerial team's mandate in this Chamber at the end of last year, a great difference between the view of the current situation by the current government and the opposition. I would remind you that the then or today opposition leader has said about this speaker, the recession has not yet been that wages are higher than ever in Slovenia, not to mention all the other things. This was said as early as last November. He wanted to do this, and we hear today after five months that the legacy is such that it cannot happen to us and should not happen to us the things that are happening to us. But it seems that the desire for power, political power and authoritarianism of all passions is the worst. Maybe she can only be equal to envy. This is a trademark, unfortunately, of us who live on this side of the Alps. And these two things, these two characteristics, are the characteristics of today's opposition and also of today's debate. She is passionate about every move of this government, and at the same time she envys it if there is a successful move in view. If the previous government were to respond more seriously and more responsibly to the warnings of the economy, and also to us in this House, which we were sitting in the opposition at the time, the current government would probably have several more options in a set of measures than it can do today. More money than it was available in 2005, 2006, 2007 and the first half of 2008, will be gone for a long, long time. And since nothing happens and happens overnight, neither could the financial crisis happen and happen within six months. If, of course, the economy stands on a solid self-sustainment and not mainly on stock-market, financial speculations, the question of the causes of today's situation is also needed whether we want to or not, to be extended in the past period. And since I have sat for four years in this House and have participated in some decisions and laws, I will today make one parallel to the package of laws proposed by this government. To begin with, I must say that the situation is very, very serious and perhaps even worse than we all think. Unfortunately, Slovenia has not entered the financial crisis in the best condition you are trying to convince us because the previous government has not implemented, and if necessary, I will repeat and also argue 10 times, structural reforms for the competitiveness of the economy. There really was a lot of talk about this, a lot of words, a lot of sentences, but very little or almost nothing has been done in this area. The economic growth, which is so many words in the previous mandate, was also based mainly on debt. The most pronounced increase in gross external debt was in 2007. And that's for a good 10 billion euros. And here I just want to remind you of what we had to do a few months ago, in a blackmail and forced manner, we had to change our decision on the final account for 2007. That's it. That's it! In the year in which this country or this Slovenia is most indebted. Let me just remind you that the total external gross debt under the mandate of the previous government, which started at 15.343 billion on 3 December 2004, is 30. 9. 2008 rose to 39.828 billion. Slovenia is said to be in charge of almost the same amount in the last four-year term abroad as in the period from independence to 2004. This is only a response to what the previous President of the Government said today, how they viewed the future and future generations with actions, moves, strategies, development programmes. It is therefore not possible to rule out the assessment and finding that the previous government has significantly deteriorated, including by borrowing, the long-term sustainability of public finances. That the pro-cyclical consumption of the country during the previous government has significantly increased the inflation of the time and thus impoverished it has reduced the long-term competitiveness of the exchange sector. This is a fact and it can be backed up with a lot of data and also, if you want, trends and graphs. It has also contributed to reducing the potential for long-term economic growth. What is the "headline", which some Members repeat day after day - in 2007 was growth of 6 and something, today we have negative growth. One of the reasons, not only is the global financial crisis, but also these measures and what I have stated is that we are experiencing negative growth today. And if we then listened to the opposition in the National Assembly, the Bank of Slovenia, the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and a number of local experts, active anti-inflation measures would allow for lower inflation than we had in 2007 and 2008. And today we could discuss the resolution of the financial crisis, perhaps at different, more positive starting points than we are discussing today. Also, some of the proposals in the package proposed by the opposition are quite interesting and I will point out two. I would like to mention the proposal to subsidise the first resolution of the housing problem for young families. In the wake of the former government's proposal for tax reform, with the abolition of 4% of the tax relief to solve the housing problem, the opposition then pleaded, argued on the arguments in this Chamber and suggested to the government not to stop it for God's sake. Arrogant, aggressively rejecting them. And what happens after two, three years? It comes with the idea that these things need to be changed and complemented. And the same has happened in the area of reckless suspension of investment incentives. Today also comes with the return of this. So if the opposition really wants to be constructive, then I suggest that it builds up some of the proposals that the Government comes with, and then we can say that we are working together to resolve the situation that we are in.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u46	Thank you. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the monitoring of the work and conduct of the opposition in the National Assembly, I allow myself to assess that the opposition, with the proposal for this extraordinary meeting, wants to achieve, in particular, the impression that the Government and the government coalition are not acting in an unfair, unprofessional manner and therefore do not contribute to the effective resolution of the financial, economic and social crisis. It wants to create the impression that government measures that are proposed and adopted do not produce any or minimum results and that, as a result, not because of the world situation that we have not created ourselves, the crisis is further deepening, the closure of businesses, the loss of work, the reduction of production, the increase in the indebtedness of the country and so on. And she wants to create the impression that she alone has the only and the best solutions, and finally -- perhaps the most significant -- she wants to create the impression that if she won the elections alone, not that the voters voted for the current ruling coalition because of fraud or the wrong decisions, she has already solved all the problems. To eliminate all the weaknesses that she has helped to cause herself. Therefore, again and again, not only today and at this meeting, but, as a rule, always in every debate, in every explanation of vote and in every procedural proposal, repeats one thing and the same, repeats that this Government is inexplicable and unsuccessful and that only this opposition has a solution. The opposition therefore wants to make a constructive impression on the new proposals that have already been addressed in the National Assembly, but in fact it proposes solutions that cannot be adopted in terms of real possibilities. And in this work it goes so far as to create the atmosphere, as if it was the power itself, as if by its way of work it would achieve what it lost in the elections, and in particular in order to regain the power that it is going on, not to solve the problems, but especially for the people it is talking about. The problems are not solved by speaking, but by working, not by unobjective accusations and insults, but by cooperation, not by unacceptable proposals, which are incomplete and financially not sustainable, but by concrete proposals that solve the problem as a whole. Therefore, I say that this meeting by the gentlemen of the opposition is not intended to solve the problems. I submit that it is intended only to make political accusations, as we know from every item on the agenda that we are talking about. I'm not going to list them, because then I'd need all the time a member group has at my disposal. So let's not force ourselves to change roles, monitor the government's work, be critical of it, be critical of it, and also help it when it takes good steps and proposes good measures, and then we will achieve success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u48	Thank you. Mr. Rozej has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u49	Respectable present, lovely greetings! When I listened to the reasons why the applicants were supposed to lead us to sit at this meeting today and the reasons why they should support the conclusions they have proposed, I wonder whether the applicants might live in the same Slovenia where I live and which is a member of the European Union or are already living in another republic! In fact, the measures proposed are largely or already being implemented in the area of social, administrative obstacles - and when we are in these projects, "Everything in One Place", perhaps another minister instead of Minister Krebsov should take over the prize, for example, Minister Lahovnik, who started it all together. The following measures, many of them in the field of taxation, were contrary to the European Union's acquis, the World Trade Organisation, the OECD recommendations and more. Now, for example, to tell someone that it does not save enough in the public sector, after the government has taken over 5,000 more employees from the previous government in the field of the public sector in employees than the previous government does, I think, inconsistently. In addition, to report the government's failure to save, for example, on the intervention of the Minister of Public Administration in the field of public administration employees, it has already saved EUR 100 million and 300 will also seem inconsistent in the area of public procurement. This, talking about empty apartments, after the Ministry of Public Administration has already transferred 175 apartments to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and after doing so with 500 more apartments, is completely inconsistent. To talk about a subsidy for young families of 10 000 euros for the purchase of housing - as mentioned earlier - after we abolished the housing allowance in the previous term, I think it is an unprecedented farce. I am also one of the recipients of the current subsidies granted by the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular credit for being able to buy an apartment without permanent employment, so that the indications of Mr Janša are completely without a real basis. Talk about a subsidy for kindergartens, after, say, for those of us who don't get a place in public kindergartens - even for ourselves [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u50	Thank you. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u51	Thank you very much. It's a nice greeting to the coworkers and the coworkers. When I saw a series of measures and set out to their content, I was disappointed to find that the proposal for measures does not have real contact with reality, so it is a requirement that day and night, somewhere by dawn, we discuss proposals that we have discussed most of the time, and that once or even more, we do not have the support of the National Assembly, irresponsible and balinian. I believe that we have been elected to the National Assembly, in addition to discussing, also to do something. Today, apart from producing many kilograms of excess carbon dioxide, we will not do anything useful. However, if we are already forced to sit here, we will be most useful so that the proposals on the agenda are not supported. Point 2. The economic crisis is global. However, each country is in a minor or greater situation, depending on how it behaved at the time of the economic start-up. Today, those countries that have filled their grain warehouses with fat cows have significantly more opportunities to deal effectively with dry cows. In Slovenia, when this government began to operate, cereals warehouses were empty and fat cows were already slaughtered for the most part. Point 3. It is highly cynical that the proposer of measures has allowed and in many cases even led the slaughter of these fat cows. Those in whose office the agreement on the injurious sale of Mercator fell; those who allowed the classification of the tycoons; those who led to today's situation when companies that were once pearls of the Slovenian economy such as Intereuropa, Luka Koper, Istrabenz, Hit, Mura, LTH, Myp, the Vrhnika leather industry and further and further, in severe trouble, are in debt or have even failed. The highway construction program is seriously compromised and is in charge of the door. Congratulations. It is cynical that the applicant calls for us to work together after he has blackmailed Parliament and has been willing to put even the international credibility of the country at stake due to the requirement of adopting a complex financial report. Point 4. This same candidate did not set up important policies at a time when he could do so when they were health, pension, school. Instead of stimuliing the tax system, he has abolished a number of tax reliefs, including housing and investment, as well as reducing taxes to the richest and thus reducing the budgetary revenues available today to implement effective social development policies. Point 5. If we look at the content of the proposals, we see that most are focused on lowering the tax burden on businesses, but nothing about improving the situation of workers. Given the recent years, we have seen that the equation, which is good for the company, is also necessarily good for the worker, does not hold the company's leadership too socially responsible and too greedy. The only proposal aimed at direct assistance to people, housing and vehicle subsidies is flawed in its essence: it does not provide for a source to finance these subsidies. So I wonder whether we want to accept a toothless subsidy tiger or if we want to completely disable the state budget. Be consistent if you propose new expenditure, tell us where you will find the source, otherwise it is all just an unrealistic proposal. And one thing is, buying a ten thousand-euro apartment does very little to help. We prefer to use available resources to reduce the total rent level in Slovenia, which is too high because it is always thought only in the direction of purchase. The latter, however, is financed in essence only by construction companies and foreign unskilled labour. Point 6. If the applicants really wanted to roll over their sleeves and work to create new jobs, to revive the economy and to consolidate the state budget, they would not always be proposing new measures offering tax relief to those who are least in need, causing an explosion of the budgetary deficit and not creating new jobs. That's what Nancy Pelosi said years ago about Bush's administration and interesting how exactly it comes in this case. Point 7. The solutions I support are different. The solutions that the Social Democrats support are different. They are based not only on the conclusion that the only true social policy is development policy, but also on the assumption that without social solidarity there is no development. We therefore support the Government's proposals, some of which will already be on our tables on Wednesday. These include the intervention law on part-time remuneration, which will maintain at least fifty thousand jobs; already adopted the Law on Part-time Co-financing; active self-employment policy where unemployed, if self-employed, for example, is obtained from the country of five thousand euros; increased Fund for Subsidisation of Technologically Advanced Entrepreneurship Projects; regulation of the financial situation in the area of health balance; more scholarships for students and more. This is a socio-democratic policy and I particularly support it. But it doesn't end here. A fundamental universal income is a measure that will innovate into social policy and represent a step forward at global level. I expect this measure to become meat. Point 9. I also expect that the many words spoken by the Minister of Economy will soon change into action. Ideas are good, it is time to become meat and further strengthen the impact of a number of measures by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Point 10. I will conclude with the words of the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and the Organisation for Economic, Cooperation and Development, the OECD: "Slovenia responds well to the crisis." He added: it is time for us Members to discuss a little less and we are a little more useful to this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u52	Thank you. Mr. Črnak Meglič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Well, hello to you on my behalf, too. With the package of measures proposed by the Social Democratic Party, you are trying to show that the government is incompetent and that the action is too slow. Excuse me? [[From the background-SDS?]] SDS is me. Excuse me, excuse me. A solution in the form of an alternative package of measures to address the social and economic crisis should therefore be needed. The new government has not even gone well beyond the threshold of its offices when it has faced three key problems. First, of course, with the global economic crisis, which you have argued just before that there is absolutely no such thing as public communications. Another time. It faced a large budget deficit of at least 2% of GDP due to the many benefits received by the new government and the pre-election promises - an account for which you have put forward a new government. Moreover, what we are talking about is significantly less, this is the redistribution of the social wealth that has occurred in Slovenia during your term of office, which has been the largest since the transition. I am not saying that this is solely the result of tax reforms, but it has also been combined with other aids, bank loans, etc., and the fact is that we are facing this big breakthrough. And what is most worrying to me and, in fact, the essence of your further reflections is that, in fact, this great burden on one side of the economy and on the other side of the economic elite did not lead to what you actually promised. You promised new investments, restructuring, productive jobs, etc. It is said that self-regulation does not lead to what we are expecting and on which the whole package of your actions is based. You say the new government has taken action too slowly. That's just not true. She took action right away. The first package was adopted already on 11 November 2009, and the second package began to be implemented gradually, immediately at the beginning of the following year. There is already a third package ahead of us and you say there is not yet any action from the third package. On the contrary, two days ago, at a meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, we had already examined the Law on partial subsidisation of partial remuneration, which will be dealt with at this meeting, and you all said that such a measure was a good one. It will be followed by a new complement to this measure. I would like to highlight the two essential features which are embedded in the essence of the measures taken by the current government; the coherence of economic and social measures. In short, it is constantly seeking a balance between encouraging further development and protecting the most vulnerable groups. Social communication is a tool for this achievement of development objectives. And it is true, sometimes social communication is a little bit more, I will say, too late, but it is a European norm. And this government is consistently committed to this European standard. The second is the developmental orientation of the measures. Even though we are in such a deep crisis, this government is investing heavily in restructuring opportunities, spending 150 million euros on science and development, while yours spent only 3 million euros on fat cows in the time of fat cows. In doing so, I would also like to point out that it has also dramatically increased funds for active employment policy and also through pre-qualifications, the retraining of the labour force trying to influence that the Slovenian economy will come out of the crisis better prepared. Social SDS measures require more selective regulation of social measures. I would like to remind you that Slovenia has been warned on several occasions that it has an extremely well-targeted social action strategy. In Slovenia, social transfers reduce the risk of poverty by 54%. You are proposing a series of measures and when I have tried to analyse them - and you know for yourself that I am not automatically and apriorally negative against what you are proposing, but on the contrary, every so long I also commend you - I can see that actually demystification of these measures shows the following. Measures 6, 5 and 9 are already being implemented. I don't have time to explain them more precisely. Measures 1 and 8 are already being implemented and the intentions of these two measures have already been implemented. Measures 4, 6 and 7 are in preparation and will appear in the form of laws in the National Assembly on the basis of the implementation of the Government's normative plan. Measures 8, 9, 10 and 11 relating to pension reform are already indicated in the government's plan to prepare the pension reform. When we remove everything together, we find that some innovation on your part in social policy is a social card. But, my fellow Members, I would like to remind you that this is a measure used by the countries with the worst-developed social policy and that this is a measure that deeply stigmatises those who are already already handicapped because of their socio-economic situation. We have a better measure to implement. It is already stated in the Government's mandated normative programme that we will develop more objective criteria for the granting of monetary social assistance, re-examine the level of minimum income and draft a law on the enforcement of rights from public funds. You know, you were preparing him, and you didn't bring him to the National Assembly, and you didn't want to do it. We'll do it! However, to clarify that the matter will not lead to any ideal situation. The fact is that the intention of the law on the exercise of rights from public funds is also based on an instrument that we have already used in Slovenia from 1984 to 1990. This is a self-administrative agreement on the common enjoyment of social protection rights. The fact is that we have unified, placed on the same criteria all social assistance and certain service subsidies, and this has led to a fairer distribution of the resources available to us for social transfers. However, I would warn you that on the one hand, we will step on many of those who may abuse it, but on the other hand, there is a huge crowd of those who, not in their previous or present system, still do not satisfy the right social situation and, in fact, do not have sufficient insight into the situation of the so-called invisible poor. Therefore, it will be necessary to make sure that we also establish a network connection between official services, on the other hand NGOs, in order to reach all those in need. So now I wouldn't drag things forward. I would say myself that I would really like to believe in the good purpose of the measures you are proposing, but I simply cannot. For when we remove a nebula over your actions, we find that the struggles of those who are really useful and what is even more shocking is that they are actually building on the hole that a country with an increase in public debt could fall into. This means that, in fact, you want to transfer the burdens to the next generation, and that's in contradiction with what you're actually saying. In short, I am convinced that if we work more constructively to deal with the measures that our government is preparing and less nudging and using less demagogies, this will lead us to a quicker solution to the current crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u54	Thank you. Mr. Campus.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u55	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! Honorable representatives of the government! However, I appreciate the re-negotiation and further positive proposals from this debate to improve the conditions of management in Slovenia. It is also appropriate to show once again the work, care, activity, advocacy of the current government of Borut Pahor to control this reaction to the global crisis, which we also clearly feel in Slovenia. All the measures taken by the Government, whether in coordination or in preparation, are and must be well thought out and professionally prepared. In the economy, it is not possible to change the situation for better or better work overnight, but even small adjustments, rather than restructuring production, are a process that takes years and years. I therefore estimate that government measures are timely and are a response to the crisis situation affecting our economy in Slovenia. Counter-crisis measures are comprehensive and link development, restructuring companies with great concern for employees, education, and the possibility of retraining by returning to working capacity as soon as possible. Not everything is as black in Slovenia as some want to paint. Most positive businesses are even those that are re-employing, modernising and investing. Usually we run into great leaders, responsible owners, good relations within companies, build belonging to honest work and fair pay, which is also a foreign currency that companies in Slovenia should be commended. So all those who do so congratulate them. There are, of course, some who, with their reckless decisions, with greed for quick earnings, the irresponsibleness of owners, the pressure of a firm into a position from which there is a difficult exit to a positive business. Such a crisis is most affected. Even in Mura, owners behave very irresponsiblely - not just in Mura, but elsewhere. Now, of course, on the SDS package. The Committee on the Economy was followed by a high-quality debate between the Minister and, of course, the Ministers. They provided comprehensive answers and touched on all the sets that were included in the SDS proposal. I admit that I left the committee calmed down because we've come to the important conclusions that I'm defining here. Firstly, most of the proposals described in the SDS proposal are already in the implementation of the current government of Borut Pahor. Secondly, that a small part of the SDS proposals is in repairing the current government. Thirdly, that a smaller part of the SDS proposals is irrelevant and must be rejected, which of course are not feasible. But the most interesting view or debate was in the labour force, so I discussed from the debate that the SDS package of measures was simply copied or summarised from several years' proposals by employers' organisations. It was also noted from the debate and it was clear that most of these SDS measures had been incorporated into a sweet programme by the former government of Janez Janša, but they failed to implement it. As a result, my assessment is that the SDS proposal is relatively unrealistic, and it is true that such a proposal is inappropriate for further consideration. In the end, however, I must agree with the opposition that the time for the material we received on the table was too small, because it is apparent that they are not well aware of all the crisis measures taken by the current government and those in coordination with the social partners and the third package that is coming and will be welcome for our economy at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u56	Thank you. Mrs. Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Well hailed, distinguished representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues. The excellent and clear and very concrete facts presented by Minister Gaspari regarding the economic and social situation in Slovenia for those who may have been in doubt to date and even requested an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, probably at a time of economic growth, at a time when the economists warned us, especially those who are also representatives of local communities, that it was difficult to get workers to work in production. At that time, the competent ministries should turn even more effectively, since we do not care today that we have never done such a good job or even done a better job. For example: Why didn’t the deadline for VAT refunds come to an end at a time when they would do so with ease? No problem, as we say. On 7 November, in the National Assembly, we voted and confirmed Mr Borut Pahor as President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and at that time, after only three weeks of convening this National Assembly, I stressed and drew attention to the issue of the redundancies of workers in the White landscape that we had moved into a crisis and so on. At that time, some were very determined - someone even said to me one day, almost vehemently, that the crisis was not at all what I was talking about. And in January, the record turned. These same colleagues warned Mr Borut Pahor, representatives of the government, ministers, ministers on the issue of forgiveness, the difficult social situation of the unemployed, the sick, the disabled and the elderly. This could have been done by the time they had scissors and linen in their hands, and the water was flowing to the mill with high economic growth. Something was also not very well thought out, not for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, for example, the debate took place on the committees on steel industry, rail infrastructure, road congestion, then also the way the country is indebted, and the use of European funds did not go in the direction of equitable regional development; at least those living on the outskirts of Slovenia can unfortunately be attached to this. Well, not to be guilty of anyone, it was in the White Land. The presence of the government has also been discussed today, whether the government is on the ground or not. It is true that some are better to see with glasses, but for example, Dr Križanič, Minister of Finance of Dolenjska and Bela Krajina, President of the Chamber of Commerce and the President of the Administration and Director-General of one of the most successful Slovenian companies, Krka, responded to the invitation of Mr Jožet Kolarić, and immediately met with the economists of large companies from this area and the mayor and discussed the issue and what needs to be done. Likewise, the Minister of Health, as well as transport ministers, for education, agriculture, the environment and space, higher education and so on, that it would not be possible not to list anyone - but we are talking about the area where I come from. So, ministers, ministers, government representatives are still working on the field. Also on June 6th, when we celebrate the 140th anniversary of the fire in Slovenia, in Metlika, where the oldest Slovenian firefighter society is, I believe that we will meet all representatives of the Government, the President of the State, firefighters, representatives of the units of protection and rescue - so to conclude - under the authority of the Minister of Defence, Dr Ljubice Jelusic. Let me conclude: The attack is the best defense, they say. Such attacks hurt our heart not because we do not know how to listen, hear and understand, but because we cannot believe that all of us who have run for elections have had to face the fact that the results of the elections will be the results of the will of the people; so the people have given us the opportunity and decided who they trust. The people have decided to make changes, so let us be good fellow workers and work for the welfare of the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u58	Thank you. Mr. Levanic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u59	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I must say that the proposals for measures proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party have been scrutinised in detail and, unfortunately, I have found that many of them are obsolete in view of the situation in which we are in; some of them proposed by the Government, some of them very incomplete, and very few of them that could have become concrete measures with some corrections, but the question is whether they would have any effects. Nothing is easier in essence than to write down a few measures that mainly burden public finances, so that the crisis can be solved by everyone and every government. I am €10 million, €15 million there, €100 million for something else - nothing easier, then we can actually take all the measures that they are proposing. And the question is -- and this is a bigger mystery, given the time we're in, and this is the time of crisis -- where we're going to take this money, which unfortunately, this moment is not. It is in such situations that we need good and innovative proposals that will work and will be in the context of the financial resources currently available to us when we need to perform miracles without funding. This is lacking in the proposals of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group: there is no added value; proposals represent a great burden on public finances on the one hand, but have no concrete impact on the resolution of economic shortcomings. Those measures that you have proposed and are going in the right direction are found in government proposals, the difference is that they have been much more developed and taken into account by the Government in some segments, in particular the financial ones. But most of all, it angers me that in the opposition, you insist that the government has done nothing to address this crisis. If that were true, it would be a situation today, and we can all be sure of it, much worse. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Look at the list of measures, even if you don't look at them and know them, see how they affect the economy and what other comparable European countries are doing in this area and how they assess Slovenia's face-to-face with this crisis. You will find that we are not yet at the finish line, but that we are doing very well in this area. Measures in the area of credit market, tax policies, active employment policies and social transfers, promoting economic competitiveness, technological development, promoting investment, drawing on European funds and so on. All these measures prove that things are moving in the right direction and that they are moving for the better. Empty state apartments - if you remember, they cost more than €3.5 million annually - will now be used in this government's mandate for the purposes of young and young families. Nobody thought about it in the past. That is why I find a little funny when we see at some point in the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposals that he wants to give something to young people, now that he is in opposition while you are in power, you have done little for them. This government also adopted a correction of the scholarship law, overcoming the shortcomings when 17,000 young people remained outside the door to obtain a scholarship, because children's allowance, pension and other social transfers were also taken into account in the quorum of the censorship. So you basically made it impossible for young people to get a scholarship, and on the other hand, you promised 10,000 new scholarships. The price rose from 65% to 68% of the minimum wage, which means that 5,000 more recipients of scholarships will be in the new school year, and positive discrimination has been introduced for single-parent families, for children with special needs and this price has gone to 70% of the minimum wage. So another 2 or 3 thousand scholarships. Slovenia did not have such a law. And it must be acknowledged that this has been adopted within the mandate of this government, in times that do not allow any funds for higher social transfers to be raised in the balance. Such initiatives, measures - concrete - will be even more. There is a need for political will and, unfortunately, you are not helping the opposition or the Slovenian Democratic Party. In your term of office, we have also asked you to change the system when young people who are employed for a certain period are in essentially a worse position because they cannot rent a long-term loan for renting or buying an apartment. That many young people work as trainees for very low wages or even many of them for free. When we warned you about these things - nothing again. Today, however, there is a lot of courage in the proposals for action, especially in helping young people. We are pleased, however, that the measure that talks about subsidising the new vehicle completely copies the initiative that we have given together with fellow Members a month ago. In this way, we can probably agree on some points. The question is that we all need to look together for where this funding will be found. And the fact that the government does not cooperate with the opposition, unfortunately, dear colleagues, does not. All readiness has been from the beginning on the part of the Government to establish as wide a consensus as possible among all involved. And what did you do? At a time when the economic crisis needed to be resolved, you were blackmailing the coalition in this National Assembly by voting on the balance. And then should the government or the Members here believe in sincere intentions on your part? No, dear colleagues, because unfortunately you don't have any. Sometimes I even get the feeling that you're having fun guessing, and you don't care about solving the situation. Moreover, in your arguments you even cite the untruths that the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Janez Janša, said in the National Assembly today when he said we were innocent. Only within the mandate of his government have we committed more than 100%. And not only has the new government inherited this heritage, we have also entrusted many young generations to the future who will have to repay these sins. And you've managed to make such mistakes in just four years, but they won't be paid in ten years. And when you talk about the urgency of swift action by the Government, you have to accept the fact that within six months the Government has already taken more than sixty concrete measures, these have been considered, analysed, had a clear objective, in particular to preserve jobs and start further development, as regards the economy and, of course, all its segments. However, I agree with you that this is not enough that we still have much to do, that we are far from the goal, but we are on the right track. That the economy needs help, that it is injured and that we have to do what we can to help it is clear. That is why I expect more engagement from the economic ministry in this place, which is also the most important responsibility. However, the crisis must not be measured only in numbers, dear colleague and colleague. What about the values? Can we argue that the GDP crisis was caused by the value crisis? The value of people always being last or not important has grown since independence. In the time of the government, however, Janez Janša only deepened. The fact that capital has accumulated in the hands of a handful of individuals and that it has exhausted well-standing companies has enabled this country’s system to be turned in any way you wish. It was stealing, it was stealing a lot, and so far all governments have allowed it. From this point of view, you are also responsible for the crisis because you allowed it, but if you knew about it, it is even worse. Paloma, Glass Nova, Leather Vrhnika, Mura, Elan. Look at the company papers and see where the individual money went. Shameful and sad. You have opened the door wide to neoliberalism, which has caused many woes, and especially pushed people into great distress, even during the great economic conjuncture. And people need to be told that Europe has been run by conservatives for the last five years, for ten years, most in the European Parliament and in the Commission by the European People's Party, of which you are also members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. That is why I know that your policy for the current situation in which Europe, the world and, above all, Slovenia is not good, because you are always forgetting the basic needs of people. Together, we must be aware that we will not overcome the crisis if we are to return to the situation before this crisis. We will not truly overcome the crisis until we have created and established new social units. This is respect for work, responsibility for the common good, cooperation and co-responsibility of all in the regulation of social matters, long-term social stability and the coherence of economic, social and environmental development, and in particular we will have to share justice in future good. No one expects more than he owns, but he expects a fair pay for honest work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u60	Thank you. The word has Mr. Do you have a procedural proposal? [[..]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u61	Mr Vice President, there has just been an outrageous attack on the Slovenian Constitution in the closing act. Perhaps you have not listened, a fellow Member who, as far as I know, has been positively discriminated against since kindergarten, and he has said this to others, said that the value of not being important to people has grown since the independence of Janez Janša's government. So, he condemned the Slovenian state not to comply with the Constitution, which states that it is in Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u62	Mr Jerovšek, this is his opinion and you are controversyizing, this is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u63	Such attacks on the Slovenian constitutional order are unheard of in that people are not important in this country. [[....]] And I ask that, Mr President, the Member of Parliament stand firm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u64	Everyone here has the right to express his or her opinion. Mr. Blackach has the floor. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here it was said that it was stealing, and it was said, "That's what you're responsible for." I am not responsible for any places in previous and previous mandates. And please, if those who say so serve it with evidence. The only evidence I can give here is that the worst move by the government of Janez Janša is much better than the best move by the government of Borut Pahor. The procedural proposal is to alert the debaters when they say that it has been stolen and that we are responsible for it, to warn them to provide the relevant evidence. However, let me continue my procedural proposal to further substantiate it. In the last term, the government of Janez Janša made very few mistakes, very few bad moves. On the other hand, the government of Borut Pahor has not done anything good so far, and this comparison is in some ways indeed very difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u66	Mr. Friday, many times in the National Assembly, these and other charges are made. And unsubstantiated accusations speak more and more of what it says than of what it is intended for. That goes for everyone. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u67	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Everyone else is present! Today we are once again witnessing in the National Assembly some abnormal situation when the opposition, in this case the Slovenian Democratic Party, proposes measures and the government criticises them. Moreover, the opposition is being attacked by Janez Janša, and there would have been no change of power in that country six months ago. It would be normal for the government to propose and the responsible opposition would criticise if the proposals were bad or supported if the proposals were good. What else is normal in this country after September 21st or after November 21st last year? Is it normal that at a time when 200 to 400 people lose their jobs each day, the priorities of this government are lawyers? The question is whether the first police officer is going to be a political puppet or not and so on. Is it normal for the vines to tease? At the price of half a year's vignette, we'll get a month's vignette, so it's six times the price, and the government says we'll still raise less money. It is normal for the political director of the largest state bank to resign after 106 days for the extension of the Taiwanese loan and for the Government to send us to the National Assembly a law amendment just in those days, which will allow for the extension of such Taiwanese loans even with the State guarantee. It is normal that in the material we received from the Government today, on the one hand, it says that the measures proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party are incomplete and fiscally unsustainable, so the Government completely rejects them. Hereafter, where opinions are given on individual measures, many can be found that they are in preparation and some that they are already being implemented and so on. Unfortunately, the government works as if it were not for this country and citizens, but for the continuous creation of some divisions, some artificial divisions to yours and ours. And why were we forced to go and propose these measures? Slovenia has entered crisis situations in good condition. We were the second least indebted country in the European Union. In 2005, we recovered the pension and health allowance. In 2007, we had a surplus of all public cash registers, and apparently some of you still do not believe even the Minister who said here today to Mr Gaspari: "With tax reform we have achieved population and economy relief and have provided more appropriate opportunities for its further development. The number of employees in public administration has decreased." Page 41 of the government material that we received today on the table: "The number of companies produced good results under favourable conditions, including Luka Koper, where more than 10 million profits were made. It is true that conditions due to the global crisis began to change in the second half of 2008. Thus, as in other countries, he threatened to break the banking system, which on 8 October, with a clear and unequivocal assurance from the then Prime Minister Janez Janš and Finance Minister Andrej Bajuk on unlimited guarantees for all bank deposits, we amended the Public Finance Act and allowed the country's additional guarantee potential to banks amounting to EUR 200 million. Of course, the economic recovery was proposed and so on, which was not accepted, and Slovenia was one of the few countries forecasted by the European Commission for a positive 0.6% growth this year as of December 2008. Why did we go down? Because there were no other new measures. They would be urgent, they were too small, the credit crunch does not drop, we have them on the table today, but it appears that the government is waiting for the measures taken by other countries to take effect in Slovenia. The opposition cannot be responsible for what is happening to the country, but unfortunately we cannot take responsibility for what is not happening, and you will have to take responsibility for that. Let's at least stay in this part a normal country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u68	Thank you. Mr. Fishich has the word, he's not here. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u69	Thank you for your word, Mr Vice President, the House of Respect. The global financial and economic crisis started on the other side of the Atlantic. Its introduction was the collapse of the mortgage market in August 2007 in the United States. According to Minister Krizanič, the financial system is so intertwined that the collapse of one major financial institution has overwhelmed the entire world system. The Slovenian finance minister also says that the U.S. administration acted contrary to the textbook logic of saving financial institutions and left the famous Leman Brothers Bank bankrupt. The stock exchanges around the world were violent, but no one imagined that the process, which began two years ago in America, would overwhelm the whole world. Even Slovenia could not avoid this, so it is appropriate to look at the economic balance sheet of the Government of Janez Janša. Our country was heavily indebted to the interbank market during that period. Here I am referring to most of the loans for disputed managers' buy-ins and DARS loans for the construction of motorways. After the elections and the appointment of the new government, it soon turned out that there was no money to help. In fact, the budget has lost four hundred and eighty-six million euros due to a number of tax advantages at the annual level. In addition, according to the Ministry of Finance, Janša’s pre-election mints, as they were commonly told, have added to the €300 million budget expenditure. The Ministry also estimates that the budget deficit was almost three per cent before the start of the new government. In addition, the change in tolling, the real shift to vignettes, the revenues from this title have decreased from €10050 million to €80 million. Inflation could also be lower if Janša's government listened to the opposition and domestic and foreign financial institutions and experts. In addition, the tax reform, by abolishing a four-percent relief to address the housing problem, caused one hundred and sixty-six thousand taxpayers to end the housing allowance and, by income, to relieve the higher class, while the rest significantly lower. The so-called economic growth has been based on an increase in indebtedness since the beginning of 2005. The most pronounced increase in gross external tax in 2007 was for the incredible EUR 10 billion, which means that little less than 7% of gross social product growth was based on unhealthy foundations. The total gross debt, as we have heard last time, increased from EUR 15 billion to EUR 40 billion during that period, according to the government of Janez Janša. Due to the change in funding, the Company for Motorways, Dars, at the end of September 2008, was already in charge of almost EUR 4 billion, so that financing for the construction of motorways was mainly based on foreign debt and almost threatened the financial sustainability of this company. Since 2005, we have also seen poor European funding. Thus, in 2007 revenue from the European Union was realised by 234 million less than the year before. We also recorded a very small share of foreign direct investment in the previous period, adding to this the untransparent sales of Mercator in 2005, then we can find that the former government has not left a good heritage; in short, it has left a catastrophic balance in the economic field. Slovenia has entered the crisis financially, economically and technologically. The fact is, the previous government was without a clear vision. While the project goes on to mention the motorway cross towards the end, the previous government had no prepared projects, no prepared projects for new investments. Let me mention here the complete stalemate in the placement of new routes of developmental axes. For example, the third and fourth development axis has no prepared spatial plan. Therefore, a number of measures will have to be taken for the new investment cycle, which can only drive the Slovenian economy forward. By amending legislation in the area of spatial planning, it will be possible to ensure faster construction of state infrastructure facilities, of course also with a view to maximising European funds, thereby accelerating the investment cycle and ensuring positive multiplier effects on society as a whole. Recently, Minister Križanič expressed optimism about future events. Government measures such as issuing guarantees, bonds, guarantee schemes are slowly adopted. Only through a full-time co-financing measure is there today 45 000 jobs in 400 companies, including companies in my environment such as Kolektor, Hidria and Eta. We are also promising much from subsidising waiting for work and, of course, from a number of other measures. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has therefore responded to the challenges of the financial and economic crises relatively early and has already adopted two sets of anti-crisis measures. The largest part was aimed at stabilising the financial system and ensuring the liquidity of banks in order to provide funds for business operations. Measures have also been taken to improve the absorption of European funds. There is also a third package of measures to adapt economic policy to the new acute situation in the domestic and global economies, as already discussed by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u70	Thank you. Minister Svetlik spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u71	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I'd like to go back to that introductory magic word - jobs. In the crisis situations in which we are now facing a crisis of underneath, we are constantly faced with a dilemma, which is more important - to create jobs or to preserve jobs. And if there is no demand, then job creation is extremely difficult and extremely risky. As a result, general measures for facilitation and similar measures are extremely risky and also ineffective, as it is very difficult to find niches where demand can be stepped up in these situations. It is much more important to keep jobs. Nevertheless, some of our measures are going in this direction. Finally, we have created around 1,500 new companies with self-employment subsidies and have also helped to employ about 15,000 workers in these times of crisis. However, as we say, it is more important to keep those jobs, in those good companies, those exporters, especially those that keep our economy healthy. Therefore, the subsidisation of shorter working hours and the measures prepared to subsidise waiting for work are so important. But these measures are very often also evident that we only support the work through it and the like. I would like to say that these measures also have their own development dimension. It is developed to maintain contact between the employer and the worker, so that workers are immediately available. And once new orders are made, these companies can react immediately by accepting these orders. In the event of forgiveness, of course, that is not possible. And here is the advantage of such a measure. And another advantage is that through these measures, space is also created and employers are obliged to train and educate those people who are waiting. And that, of course, is the development dimension. And I must say that with these and other measures, if so many of these measures have been exposed to how these measures work, we have maintained the level of employment at the level of unemployment, which is still the fourth best among the 27 Member States in the European Union, regardless of the fact that we have difficulties in maintaining jobs. In addition, I would like to add that developmental structural change is a problem. And what is the main problem is that the instruments to promote these structural changes have not worked in the past. Because the main activity of the company management went in the direction of ownership and games on the stock exchanges. We must find, and now we are also looking through our actions, such measures that will indeed lead to restructuring, already Minister Gaspari has indicated a different way of drawing up the budget. And this is what is our main development challenge in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u73	Respected and respected. Janez Janša is right. We are facing two different concepts of crisis resolution today. The first, the opposition, is betting on the causes of the crisis that it has exceeded and survive a pattern of invisible market hands that wants to increase, cross-border, the transfer of public funds in the economy, thereby also increasing public finances and putting Slovenia in a position of impossibility. Without a single assurance that these funds will not be intended for accumulation instead of spending. The second concept, which the Social Democratic Government is trying to implement, is based on as critical an assessment as possible of the causes of this crisis and follows two fundamental objectives. Firstly: the mitigation of the social consequences among the population, including the increase in social transfers, the announced guarantee scheme for crediting the population. Both basic measures in the labour market, i.e. subsidisation of full working time and waiting for work. Secondly: targeted restructuring of the economy towards technologically developed production and services, not only will we work existing products with new technological equipment, but we will do more technologically demanding and innovative products. This is followed by a number of measures. Some are selective and some are also selective, such as a guarantee scheme that provides the economy with convertible capital for new investments and realisation of business. Both objectives, I am firmly convinced of this, we are also achieving this in our best efforts and in the tightening public financial consequences. This is what we are doing, and I want to underline this, at the same time as other European governments and in a similar way. This is reflected in both the opinions of the European Commission, the OECD and the International Monetary Fund. I cannot shake the impression that the red thread between the government policy of John Janša and the anti-crisis proposals of John Janša said: The objective is to devote resources. I am convinced that, at the time of the rule, this objective was to establish its own capital and economic elite with imprecise ownership, the exhaustion of a type of good business and allowing, if not even through the implementation of tycoonisation, all to the detriment of the public interest and the health of public finances. Today, however, this objective is to destabilise the Government and Slovenia by populism creating an impression of an extraordinary situation in the interest of regaining power. Everything else is folklore and a show for the people. During the past four years, when Slovenia was in shape to restructure the economy strongly, the power was obviously obsessed with ensuring a monopoly over the economy and the media. If it were different in the last four years, the Slovenian economy today would be less vulnerable and vulnerable to the effects of export markets. Instead of a development restructuring, we have 2.8 billion Taiwanese loans in 2008. And the fat lie is that you didn't know anything about it. You were a screenwriter and director of these processes. The logic of these proposals that you are facing today is based on a reduction in revenue and an increase in expenditure. In the final phase, this is nothing new, and such a recipe we have been able to monitor for four years during the previous government. As a result, in four years you have indebted the country more than 15 years ago to the independence of the Slovenian state. What Slovenia needs today is in particular a good assessment of the opportunities and dangers posed by this crisis. Today, we know that climate change will change the map of the world, values and way of life. Ecology will be at the forefront of the economy, and all plans for the future must do so today. We know that the future global economy will be based on four innovative product and service directions: nano, bio, neuro and information technologies. We know that we will have to be significantly more self-sufficient than individuals and the community in meeting our needs for water, food, space and energy in the future. This, Your Honor, could be catastrophic changes. These may significantly change our way of life. But there may also be good changes. If we know today to capture these trends and as a policy, economy and as a community to adapt to the enormous opportunities that can be the source of the prosperity and security of Slovenian society, we have every opportunity to become a green and ecological oasis of Europe. We need to recognize this primarily as an economic challenge. This crisis has finally shown that motivation for good work is not fear. A new time behind the horizon must be a time of more just society, which will provide good work and the results of people from their security, prosperity, and not fear. And here's the time to start looking for good changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u74	Mr. Alan Bukovnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u75	Honourable President, Honourable President of the Government, Madam Minister, Ministers, Fellow Members, Fellow Members and Fellow Members. In October of last year or if you want the autumn of last year, economic growth forecasts have been steadily declining. In eight months, and from October to now, we have witnessed an incredible turning point, and if my memory does not deceive me last year, although this was the electoral year, then the president of the most opposition party, Mr. Borut Pahor, has always warned that there is a crisis that we have not witnessed since 2. World war ahead. And despite the fact that it was not like speaking before the elections, voters and voters voted in favour of the programme presented by Mr Borut Pahor, who was also prepared to deal with the situations in which we are today. Following the appointment of the government last year, the president in his speech here before us, also because of the awareness of the situation that is not pink, the next day, along with the team, sat at the table, rolled up his sleeves and started working. The first anti-crisis measures have been initiated. And so they were presented as soon as possible, as far as possible, the first anti-crisis measures. They were followed in the second package, and today we are in the middle of the adoption of the third measures or the third package of measures against the crisis. All measures have been carefully prepared and, above all, financially sustainable. Since the beginning of this government's mandate, the measures have been taken and we can also talk today about the successful conflict between the Government and the Republic of Slovenia with the greatest recession since World War II. I trust Mr. Borut Pahor's government. Just as I trusted her on her appointment in October, and I believe that Slovenia will come out of this crisis with the help of these crisis measures as a winner.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u76	Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u77	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today's session and the current debate by the proponents remind me of the story of the Red Hood, where the wolf changes into a nice girl. Even today, the biggest opposition party has changed into a kind and constructive group that is supposed to be trying to help a seemingly incompetent government find solutions from the crisis. My colleague Janš described in dramatic words the bad results of our country as if Slovenia were a lonely island. Our economy is crucially linked to our economic partners. In Italy, one of the most economically successful European countries, gross social product fell by 5.9%. It is shocking that Japan fell by 15.2% and Russia by 23.2%. Ladies and gentlemen, the global crisis, but unfortunately also after the enrichment of some of the owners of the companies, has left some 30,000 people unemployed in Slovenia today. However, it is less known that at the same time 15,000 workers were employed. With the aid of subsidies, a total of 1,500 new companies have been set up, and, of course, new jobs as well. However, many workers have not lost their jobs because of the government's action to subsidise working time. And what does the opposition offer us? Since its defeat in the elections, he has been referring to the National Assembly proposals that would have emptied the state treasury if they had been accepted. That doesn't surprise me. This client also did so in the time of the fat cows, when it was not the time to be indebted. When the SDS took power in 2004, Slovenia's gross debt amounted to EUR 15.34 million and finally almost EUR 40 million. As far as he knew ladies and gentlemen, the debt of Tito's Yugoslavia. In short, if we look today at all the results we have inherited from the previous government, we can say that the most important thing is that this government is preparing new development measures. Not for the construction of amusement parks and new islands. [[Turn off the microphone.]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u79	Nice greetings, respectable colleagues, colleagues. As we have heard many times and we know well, the crisis has not happened in Slovenia and it is not only in Slovenia. That is why I think it is necessary to stress this and acknowledge in this part that we share a broader destiny that the economic system has experienced on a global scale and in some ways an hour of truth in the classic liberal doctrine of the economic system, which prevailed in the 1990s and also in the early 21st century. The measures taken by the former government last year, including measures in the last year of the mandate, which are usually in part also subordinated to a partially pre-election period, while at the same time the circumstances in which it adopted them were based on the assumption that this year will be an essential economic environment different from what actually happened. That is why I think we can all be smart today to know that it was probably inappropriate for us to have a new wage system in the public sector in September, based on the starting point, in order for future economic growth in Slovenia to be 5, 6, 7%, which unfortunately can no longer happen because of the macro-environment. Also accepted were some, as you said today, some pre-election mints in the form of snacks, I think our students need them and free kindergarten, which is also necessary. Unfortunately, however, this situation, which has in some way enabled such a policy, has changed significantly and I therefore think it is necessary and is responsible for all of us to look into the situation in the eye and to act responsibly and also to take measures that at first sight are unlikely to be very attractive, sometimes also painful for any of the groups, but will be measures that will ensure some sustainability in the finances and in the Slovenian system for future. I suggest that those who play the most important role, in the coalition and in the opposition, get back to the Development Partnership, check once again all these measures together, and also take together those who are financially sustainable and will give Slovenia the opportunity to a better tomorrow, not just to hear a debate in parliament in recent months, which is a normal form of work, but I do not think is very constructive for what the situation is in Slovenia today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u80	Mr. Miran Jerič has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Milan Gumzar. Not at all. Mag. Radovan Žerjav. Not at all. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that. So far, we have heard a lot of criticism about how the opposition acts, how the Slovenian Democratic Party acts. I would like to remind you that if you examine the voting so far in all the anti-crisis measures proposed by this government and discussed in the National Assembly, you will find that we have supported all measures, all except one. We did not support the 2009 budget rebalancing. For this act, the President of the Government came to the National Assembly and said that he was composed and prepared at the wrong starting points so that they did not work at the base of the starting point. Therefore, this act could not be supported. And that is why we are now facing a new, third package, the key component of which is the 2009 budget rebalancing, which may only take account of other macroeconomic starting points. We have also proposed a series of anti-crisis measures in the parliamentary group. We have proposed, in addition to the package we are now discussing, we are 11 laws. We still have five laws on the program today, which is 16. They were proposed by the Government during this period, including Rebalance 6. It is sad, however, that all these measures have been either rejected or gravely mutilated. We believe that Slovenia needs measures, it needs such measures, which will have immediate effects, and we can do a lot at this point quickly. Change in VAT refund, change or reduction of payment deadlines for public contracts, way of paying VAT for small businesses and so on, change in the tax environment for companies. We have also implemented many of these measures in the previous mandate. None of these measures have been criticised. Nor do I see any reason why we should not continue these positive changes in these areas in this mandate. As far as rationalisation projects are concerned, the previous term of office has been extremely good. Let's just remember the programme to remove administrative barriers. Many, many great steps have been taken in this area. Much more specifically, so that the economic system can be organised, set up, functioned better, acted simpler, and many of these matters are also set up automatically. For all this information, what should be done, is collected at an appropriate electronic address. The minimum effort is to verify these activities and to try to implement them. Something with action, and some through legal proposals. One such measure, which we have heard has already been implemented by the Government, is the simplification of the payment of the obligations of companies to the State. The claim that all these measures are already being implemented, at least at this point, is certainly not true and it would therefore make sense for these and other proposals to be examined, reviewed and supported in a rational manner. Not just that one. And so are the others. We have seen many initiatives for the modernisation of systems, for the modernisation of social rights, for pension rights. I do not think it is very credible that these modernisations are discussed by someone who, as a responsible person, has allowed the EUR 38 million to disappear for an unprofitable investment, but today he is the leader of the anti-crisis group of ministers and this anti-crisis group of ministers is also dealing with, say, eliminating or modifying the diocese's diet. The loss of Lehman Brothers by Banka Slovenije is exactly the same as the cost, the annual cost of the student food subsidy. Exactly the same. Exactly the same, and when you talk about these matters, then a lot of people should be asked about responsibility. As for the credit measures that are somehow at the forefront of this mandate. General measures which are applicable to the entire economy. But you proposed two laws. The Government of the Guarantee Scheme Act and the amendment of the Public Finance Act and both laws have a special provision which regulates in particular against either tycoon servicing or servicing obligations or loans by tycoons. Special. And everyone else is covered by a credit crunch. However, those in the Taiwanese ownership process are subject to specific measures. I don't think that's appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u82	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Respectable, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely thank you for your proposals for action in the public sector. Unfortunately, your actions are mostly too late, since we have already fully implemented them in the Government or are already implementing them. In the review of the implementation of the anti-crisis measures of this government that we have presented to you, I have presented them to you on page thirty-three to thirty-three, going in two directions. In order to reduce costs for businesses, i.e. to improve the business environment for businesses by reducing administrative barriers. Mr Tanko, we have done the analysis, these measures have been chosen, but in most cases they have not been implemented, even those you are proposing, one payment account you have put into the 2007 agenda, you have not changed the laws. We haven't been able to do that in five months either. Entry point for social benefits, single, in the 2007 Agenda. In short, public spending in the public sector will be reduced. We have been forced to take austerity measures quickly, effectively, decisively and in cooperation with the social partners. As a result, expenditure is reduced in the area of salaries, labour, material and investment costs with more rational procurement. Crisis measures or aid to the economy and workers in 2009 would not reduce expenditure without this reduction. We have reduced the cost of salaries by EUR 100,3 million, material costs by 20%, i.e. EUR 100,50 million and investment costs by two hundred and fifty million [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Janša has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u85	Thank you very much again for your word. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Public Administration, who said that most of the measures that we have proposed are already being implemented. I hope that this has also been heard by the coalition Members, who previously said in one voice that these were incomplete measures that would embody Slovenian public finances. And I would suggest that the government coalition align somewhat with what is good and what is not good. Otherwise, as one of the candidates, I can say that the debate of the government coalition did not particularly surprise me. A lot of talk was over, even because the material had not been read at all and because you gave us only five minutes of time to present the measures, and there was also a half-empty hall. In this debate, I was most surprised by the criticism of the former Yugoslavia of Titus, who is said to have been weak and highly indebted, while at the same time setting up a monument or naming it as the main city. In fact, this was the only surprise from this debate. I am also pleased that the Government or representatives of the Government themselves have demented some of the statements made by the members of the government because they insist here that there was no public financial surplus. One of the ministers acknowledged honestly what was said in the government's paper that he was. I am also pleased that Mr Svetlik has denied statements about the bad legacy of the new government, which says that we are still, as the country, when unemployment has increased by more than 30,000, the fourth highest in Europe. Before this increase in unemployment by 30,000 we were still significantly better, it is said, you did not get into the hands of any social dispersion. Unemployment in October last year, after the elections, has been the smallest in the last decade if we look functionally since Slovenia exists. Despite the fact that the number of unemployed has increased from 68 to 83 thousand at that time. I will not comment on those debates in which there has been some sort of conceptual confusion. Some Members spoke about the fact that they were involved in the validation of the balance sheet, they were probably referring to the final account. At least that should be separated. He constantly mixed the country's debt with household debt and business debt. The government is responsible for the country's debt, for the lending of businesses, for the loans hired by companies without State guarantees, are the responsibility of companies. Credits taken by individuals or households are the responsibility of these individuals and households. They decide on their own to hire these loans and they are also obliged to repay them without a guarantee from the State. If they cannot repay them, then those who have given credit will cash out the guarantees that these individuals have given. This does not burden public finances. Nor is it true that the indebtedness of the population and businesses at that time has increased so enormously that we are some recorders here. In total, households and public finances and corporate indebtedness in the European Union are three times the European Union’s annual GDP. Slovenia is still a part of this responsibility, even when we talk about it. But this is not important; it is important to manipulate it by mixing public finances or public treasury debt with household and business debt, which are two different categories. No government has direct tools to influence this in times of high growth, growth in wages and pensions and so on, credit activity of the population or households is also growing, when people are solving their housing problems, entrepreneurs are investing in further development and, of course, they are also hiring loans. There was nothing unusual about this. And to compare this debt to the indebtedness of the former state is ridiculous. This is a comparison of apples and pears. Nor will I comment on those debates in which Members or Members have mixed millions and billions as if it were the same thing. Sometimes I feel that in some of the measures that are or are not, some really mix millions and billions. There was also some poetic inspiration with which, of course, the economic crisis could not be solved. These allegations, too, of how capital has accumulated in the previous term in the hands of individuals and that we have therefore been in crisis, or how the previous government has created tycoons, quickly fade these accusations if we look at where these individuals are sitting in the forums and where this capital has been concentrated. I do not know any of these individuals who would be a member of any opposition party in the National Assembly, not the SDS, not the SLS and not the SNS. These individuals, who have accumulated a lot of assets during the transition, are sitting in forums that support the current government option, among the mayors who celebrate the current political options and are among the media supporters and media owners who support the current government option. However, some have or have had government client cards. So much for that. My fellow Member and the leader of our parliamentary group, Mr Tanko, has previously stressed that, as an opposition in this mandate, we have supported exactly all the anti-crisis measures that this government has put into the National Assembly. Everything. The balance that might be counted in part in this field was not supported, and this was because you yourself said that it would need to be fixed immediately and because you yourself found in this government paper that it does not solve anything, but that it only increases consumption, state consumption. We supported all the other measures, as well as the measures previously discussed by the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We have already announced our support for some of the measures in this area that we think are good, but it is not enough to work only in the social field and it is not enough to make any artificial dilemmas or to preserve or create jobs, because both are necessary. It is a fact that all jobs cannot be maintained, even if we take all the measures we propose, that certain jobs cannot be maintained, or that it does not make sense to maintain them, because this crisis accelerates some processes which, and because of the economic dynamics in general, make some jobs redundant, uncompetitive and disappear. And it's not the biggest problem with someone losing their job. The biggest problem is that someone loses a job and can't get another, equally paid or more paid job and a job. That's the key problem. And as it is necessary, and these measures we have supported, help businesses to maintain productive jobs, which are expected to function fully in a relatively short period of time, so it is also necessary to invest in opening up new jobs or reducing the burden of the economic crisis on the part of the economy that is capable of creating jobs. We heard earlier debates, a few bruises, swearing here at the omnipotentness of the invisible hand of the market and that this should be neglecting people. We do not swear on the almightyness of the invisible hand of the market. However, we believe in the common sense of Slovenian entrepreneurship, the Slovenian economy. We believe that Slovenian entrepreneurs who have once proved that they can replace lost markets are more able to judge where certain funds need to be invested than a commission made up of bureaucrats in different ministries, who first collects money from the company and then divides it according to their own judgment. In short, it's not that you wouldn't trust me to trust me too much in the invisible hand of the market. This isn't about an invisible hand. It's the known hands of people who have proven themselves capable. It's about people who have saved everything in the last four years and created them for a new, 45,000 new jobs. There were so many new jobs in the 2004 and 2008 periods, and not just low-value jobs. They even declined in sectors, in very intensive industries, where employment fell in some places. The innovation of Slovenian companies has increased during this period, according to international research, and investment in research and development has also increased. It is therefore pointless to discuss whether all the money is spent on preserving or creating new jobs. It is reasonable to discuss what are the jobs that can survive and where it is necessary and meaningful to help and where it is necessary to know that there will be nothing out of this, that it will only prolong agony and that it is better to use this money to create new jobs with the help of those companies that are capable of creating them. An active employment policy through state bureaucrat institutions is just a phrase. It's just a phrase. It's something that eases the problem, but it's not being solved. Sounds good. Then when you come into some employment office and you see species in front of the counters, you become clear what that means in practice. So, don't make illusions that the government won't make illusions, that through the Ministry, it will create productive jobs through bureaucratic procedures. This has not worked for anyone, and our government will not, if this could be done, then socialism would have flourished even further, not if it had collapsed more or less everywhere. To substantiate the explanations in which we have made it very clear that the measures we are proposing have not been caught on some public opinion polls or in newspaper articles, the basis for these measures is essentially a very realistic assessment of the situation and assessment of the needs of this time coming into the Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship economy. Let me quote some of their direct evaluations; it is difficult for the Chamber of Commerce or Economics to read politics, especially in the direction of the current opposition, because one of these institutions was recently led by a member of the government's party. And let's see what the Chamber of Commerce says about the Government's actions on April 21st, says last month, the Chamber of Commerce adopted a position which was also published on their website under the title Great Disappointment of the Government. And it says, at the meeting of the Management Board of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which was this time in Velenje, members expressed great disappointment at the government's past. The small economy proposals are not well taken into account; the perception of the decline of small craftsmen in the public is, of course, not the same as if a large company falls in a region and many workers remain unemployed. However, small entrepreneurs and craftsmen also shut down their activities and also forgive, since their reserves have been slowly exhausted, the members warned. They are now plagued by great payment discipline, fewer orders, pressures on price cuts. The government overlooks us too often, we're afraid that it will notice that it only misses us when we fail. This is the position of the Chamber of Commerce, the board of directors, not the position of any of the opposition parties. And then the Chamber of Economics, which brings together major economic operators who say, employers' organisations and chambers are alert and are concerned about the economic events as well as the government's attempts to limit the decline in economic growth. Due to the extremely critical situation and the lack of social dialogue, we have adopted a common platform for development dialogue and action as quickly as possible. There are many measures following this platform and among them, which are still in this proposed package today. This is a summary of the voice of the economy. These claims cannot be said to be political, based on a realistic assessment of the situation made by those who have to resolve the situation. In addition, I could add quotations that speak of a credit crunch and that, with all this strong guarantee that we have accepted, the real economy is actually very few. Now, when it comes to the discussion of what legacy the current government inherited and whether the measures were right or wrong, it is necessary to know that the end of the year, at the end of the following year, will be known official statistics. There are some key macroeconomic indicators to determine whether or not a period has been successful. And there are also relative indicators to determine whether the development of a country is really just the fruit of some conjuncture around and the boom of the global or European economy, or whether it is some national added value. We have heard earlier how the situation should be exacerbated in one of the most developed European countries, that is, Italy. Italy has long not been one of the most developed European countries. If Slovenia continued to develop over the last four years, we would catch up with it within a few years of development. Italy is the European country that has not recorded more than 1%, 1.5% in the last five, six years of European conjuncture, which is not yet an economic growth year, despite the fact that the environment has been favourable, despite the fact that Europe or most of Europe has been economically flourishing, that Italy is part of this area, that part of the euro area, has not flourished there, has, after all, been reflected in a visit to Slovenian casinos, which Italian guests, due to the economic situation in Italy, have been increasingly less and less visited since there was no income. Italy is a very visible proof of the country, which even in the time of the fat cows was unable to catch the wind in the sails and pull the development forward. Only countries that have taken account of the Lisbon Strategy's guidelines have made good use of this time, and Slovenia has made good use of it and there are indisputable indicators to this end. A key indicator of development performance is, of course, growth. Economic growth is not the only objective, but without economic growth there is no key basis on which prosperity can be built. If you don't create anything, you can't share anything. He may be in debt in the short term, but one day he'll have to return it. In the long run, you have to create as much as you divide. Slovenia's economic growth has been on average 5% over the last four years; the average economic growth in the European Union has been around 2% at this time. Despite the fact that Slovenia met the Maastricht criteria at that time, it had to lead very cautious policies and that it had met and entered the euro area. As has already been said, some European countries that had significantly better starting points, accumulation from the Roman Empire, have progressed significantly slower because they have not implemented structural reforms. Slovenia has been implementing structural reforms during this time, and all reports from international institutions are talking about this. We didn't do everyone we needed. For some there was no political consensus in the coalition, for some there was no political consensus between the social partners. Even before the government's formal proposal on tax reform, even before we proposed a change of tax laws before the government knew what it was going to propose, several 10,000 members of Slovenian trade unions protested on Slovenian streets, against something that had not yet existed - only predictions were there and different ideas about it. Someone said there was no protest earlier. I would say, the protest was, four years ago, also politically motivated, obviously, because employment grew, wages grew, pensions grew, but a few 10,000 people protested. Nobody's actually protesting today. Some union officials gathered at a convention. With 30 or 35,000 people out of work and the forecasts blacked out and hundreds of businesses bankrupting and an increasing social problem. So there was no consensus among the social partners to implement some other reforms. As far as the current government is concerned, on the basis of the situation I have described, it is obvious that, in a significantly better political situation, it may be easier to talk to the people who conduct this part of the social dialogue or this part of the social partnership, sometimes sitting in the same Member States or councils and at the same meetings of the executive committees of the parties, this time would be a good time to take advantage of this closeness in order to carry out some structural reforms. A few months ago, we listened to the late announcements from the Congress of the largest government party, where it was said that historic reforms would be proposed in a short time. We would welcome at least some very concrete anti-crisis measures, as well as some more sophisticated concepts of these historic reforms. Another indicator of success at a time of development is employment. If economic growth is high and unemployment is also relatively high, it means that many people do not take part in the fruits of this growth. We've had high employment at this time, I've talked about this before. I am pleased that the Minister for Labour recognises that employment in Slovenia is still high and that after unemployment Slovenia is the fourth best country in the European Union. Before we said 35,000 unemployed, it was probably even better. The next indicator is duty. Clearly, the more you have your own bases, the more you can owe yourself, the more cover you have, the easier you get credit. At the time before the previous term of office, the share of the debt in the gross domestic product was several % higher than at the end of the mandate. We can talk about high economic growth and so on and that this share could be even smaller, but it is also necessary to take a comparison with other European countries that had even higher growth and had a higher debt. This situation is certainly one of the key good routes to coping with the economic crisis, as it represents a very wide margin of manoeuvre in the adoption of certain measures. The next performance indicator is salary and pension growth. In the last four years, wages and pensions have grown in Slovenia for a quarter, which means that this growth was not only for the benefit of some, but for the benefit of others. In the previous term, there has been harmonisation, harmonisation of pension growth with wage growth, which means that pensioners have not been deprived. These are the key indicators that give an objective picture. Of course, we cannot prejudge this mandate, or this would be very ungrateful and even unfair, because we do not know what the situation will be in the end. We can set some objective criteria here today, by which we will judge. In fact, these criteria are already placed in the development strategy of Slovenia. This strategy has been prepared to some extent in the previous mandate, it is said before ours, still applicable because no one has cancelled it. And this strategy states that the strategic objective of Slovenia and its development is to capture the European Union average within ten years of the average of development. It also says how we can achieve this. The strategy states that, on an annual or average basis, there is a need to achieve faster economic growth or faster development on the average of the European Union by three percentage points, and this will be achieved. During the 20 years, Slovenia grew on average for a good percentage point faster than the average of the European Union, and we did not go very fast towards the average, but we were slowly falling behind. Over the past four years, we have been rapidly falling behind and coming to 92% of the European Union's average development by purchasing power. The challenge for the current government is the same, for three percentage points faster growth with other solid macroeconomic indicators, employment, indebtedness and so on, than the European Union average. Then you, honourable Members of the Government, will be able to say how good it is now. You won't be able to say it's better. However, if this growth is above the European average, more than 3% of the point, then you will be able to say that you are significantly better or you will be. I hope that this challenge will be achieved because it will be good for everyone, for position, opposition, the population, entrepreneurship, pensioners, students, students and so on. This relative objective or indicator can also be implemented during the recession. If this year will be a negative year of growth or decline in the European Union and this decline will be 5%, then Slovenia must be better by 3% and can fall only to 2% if you want to maintain the same trend, the same pace of catching up to the average of the European Union as achieved in the last four years with similar employment, debt and so on. These are objective criteria; we have not defined them; the Rope government has written them in the draft development strategy. We have accepted this challenge and the same challenge lies before you. We will be able to discuss this in the closing account for 2009, 2010, 2011 depending on how long this mandate will last and will be very objectively compared. So, even at the time of the recession, during the economic crisis, these relative comparisons are objective. It's possible to use them. I suggest we have the same vats when we measure these things and then there will be no problem in communication. However, despite some very different views and despite seeing that the Government is somehow insisting on a concept that has been drawn up in December that has so far failed to deliver results. I hope that this debate has been sobering, that we will get more effective measures at the table in the future and that the government will write them with a less shaking hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u86	I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a decision is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up with this day-to-day thing. We're moving to 2. POINT OF THE DAY - This is the right-of-law proposal for a law on amendments to the law on the tax on the income of legal persons within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the proposed Marjan Bezjak Act for further explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. At the beginning of the year, the European Commission and other distinguished international institutions classified Slovenia as a rare country that could avoid recession. The government of Borut Pahor announced, at the time of taking over the mandate, that it would maintain a higher growth of Slovenian gross domestic product than the average European Union, or that the possible decline in gross domestic product would be significantly lower than the fall of the EU average. It also stated that they are aware of the seriousness of the financial and economic crisis. Unfortunately, it turns out that's not the case. Slovenia is in a deep economic, social crisis. Not only have we not managed to keep the gap between the growth of Slovenia's gross social income and the average of the EU, but even more so, Slovenia has been among the countries that record the biggest economic decline among EU countries. The main reason for this is that companies were not encouraged to invest in new programmes, to open new jobs, but were encouraged by such laws as the Law on Partial Subsidisation of Working Time, which was also referred to as ineffective and harmful by the International Monetary Fund and the OECD, to reduce its production and business activity. Now is the chance to correct this mistake. The recession is a decline in economic activity, and it is therefore imperative to adopt a law that will encourage companies to invest and thus increase economic activity, which is the only real measure against recession and social problems. This is no longer the time, so it is necessary to immediately adopt the amendment to the Law on corporate income tax proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. This amendment brings lower tax rates, higher investment incentives, higher incentives for investing in research and development. This amendment of the law was tabled by the SDS Group of Members of Parliament a long time ago, and it was rejected by the coalition or changed until it was unrecognizable. The price for this is a crowd of people who lose jobs every day. However, it appears that the ruling coalition has learned nothing from this, even worse, because now the ruling coalition has begun to restrict and prevent even a debate on how to find the way out of the deep economic social crisis that reigns in Slovenia. I do not mention the rejected partnership offered by the opposition ruling the coalition. Obviously, the package of economic and social measures proposed by the SDS has been mirrored by the government, which should not be implemented. Of course, the government and the ruling coalition will not acknowledge their mistakes, and that is not our purpose. Our aim is to open a constructive debate on economic and social measures to get out of the crisis, to engage the Government and the ruling coalition, to constructively join this debate and to take the best measures for Slovenia together. In the SDS Group, we will, of course, also support the amendment of the law that we have proposed. I call for you to do so, too, dear Members, especially coalition members, to catch the last train for the exit of Slovenia from the deep economic and social crisis and that this crisis would not last longer than necessary. My purpose is not to separate between us and you, because in Slovenia I live and create, so I don't care what happens to Slovenia in the future, because we will live here for longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u88	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Dr. McKinley. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u89	Your Honor! Allow me to address you with regard to the proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. Initially, I should like to state my opinion on Bezjak's assessment of why Slovenia has become further vulnerable in this financial crisis. It has undoubtedly become vulnerable because we have had extensive economic growth, growth which has brought relatively small added value to the employee. We have looked at this at the time of the conjuction, especially with low wages, but now at the time of the recession it shows up by job losses. We're still in debt. We have committed ourselves, not to the capital equipment of the work, not to the improvement of equipment, but to the ownership consolidation and result, there is now a severe crisis in which the Government is still engaged in the developmental conversion. If I answer the very problem of the law, then I would say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has so far taken a series of measures to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis and to improve the business conditions in the changed situation, including in the field of taxation. With regard to the proposal for a law currently under discussion, it should be pointed out in particular that in the area of the tax system on legal persons' expenditure, the law governing the tax procedure has been amended in the field of taxation. These have adapted to the lower level that was in force in 2009 and is still in force in 2009, from 2008 to 2007, which represents an immediate recovery or positive impact and on the liquidity of the debtors, whose volume is estimated at around EUR 50 million. An amendment was also adopted in January, which provided for a higher investment relief already applied by the debtors in the 2008 accounts, for a small economy. The Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank in its proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons proposes a number of measures, which are more favourable incentives for investment, higher incentives for investment in research and development, reduction of the tax rate and elimination of the tax evasion from the loans they hire by legal persons with the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. These are identical proposals for action, as already tabled by the Member of the Magi. Andrej Vizjak with a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, for which this assembly decided in March this year that it was not suitable for further consideration. However, these proposals were already rejected by this amendment assembly in January this year at the time of the first proposal by the Magi Member. Andrej Visiak, when only his slightly amended proposal for investment relief was adopted. Thus, for the third time, the same proposals that have already been rejected twice in this esteemed congregation have been addressed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that the measures already taken to tax the income of legal persons are still within the scope of the public financial possibilities, but that further burdens exceed the limits of public financial sustainability and therefore the proposals for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are unacceptable at this time. It should be clarified that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, inter alia, has been following a greater effect of relief in small and micro-enterprises, through the introduction of an investment facility with an upper absolute amount of EUR 30,000, which the group of Members and Members proposes. With regard to the proposal to reduce the tax rate, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the corporate income tax rate has been declining since 2007. In 2009, the general tax relief or tax rate on the income of legal persons is 21% and is also appropriate, as international comparisons show. If we mention only a few countries, according to 2008 data, the tax rate in Austria - for this tax, is 25% on the income of legal persons, 27.5% in Italy, 26% in Finland and 28% in the United Kingdom and 21% on small businesses. With regard to the proposal to eliminate the tax evasion from the interest on loans to legal persons with the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia, it should be clarified that the corporate income tax system is also designed on the principle that the Republic of Slovenia taxes the income or capital generated in Slovenia. The interest paid is income in determining the tax base and, if the taxation of the interest on the source is abolished in Slovenia, these interest rates in Slovenia would not be taxed at all. In Slovenia, the adoption of this proposal would also exacerbate the negotiating ground for negotiating solutions in agreements to avoid double taxation of property income. On the basis of preliminary data from corporate tax accounts, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that 17.1% of the corporate income tax was charged in 2008 compared to 2007. About 300 million. Further notes that we have lost from this title - that the new macroeconomic forecasts also worsen the public financial picture for 2009. There is a significant decline in revenue, totalling 907 million euros. This is also because of VAT and others. It's not just that tax. It is not insignificant that all solutions would be used according to the law [[...]] [[Warning for the end of the debate.]] So that, in our opinion, this change is unacceptable. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u90	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u91	Respected and respected! The motions for this law state that the purpose of this law is to relieve the economy during the global financial crisis and to promote investment and consequently growth and development in difficult and changed circumstances. With these objectives, we fully agree with the Social Democrats. However, we are convinced that these same goals can be better achieved in a different way. Government analyses show that the effect of reducing tax rates is minimal to all elements of gross domestic product growth. We therefore attach to the Slovenian Government's position that the desired effects and the desired objectives, i.e. the promotion of a new investment phase, can be better and more effectively achieved with direct incentives for investment in technology equipment and with calls for company development needs. If we use such a mechanism, we give the economy that intends to invest a fresh and irreparable source of resources in a way that will achieve the impact of investment and thus launch new economic growth. In acute situations, it is our shared responsibility to choose the best ones in a palette of ideas that will give the best effect and confidently run on a new investment cycle while ensuring the sustainability of public finances. Responsibility for public finances has been the point where we have already met to deal with the SDS proposal and the Social Democrats in a number of these proposals, and they have assessed that these responsibilities have not been understood. The public financial situation, in particular, requires selectivity and a decision for those measures that will best target the goals that we are setting together. The proposed measure costs the country an estimated EUR 350 million to significantly reduce the impact achieved. Instead, the Social Democrats would like to draw attention to those measures that the Slovenian Government has or will continue to implement; it is said that direct co-financing of the purchase of new technology equipment, guarantees to secure bank loans with a subsidised interest rate, co-financing of development investment projects where the applicants of the group of companies and the developmental research institutions, increased funds to promote technological development and research development projects in enterprises, could also add a guarantee scheme for access to credit resources. We argue that in this way we are achieving a better impact in achieving the objective of promoting investment and resulting in growth. To put it simply, the proposers would like to disperse one hundred units among 100 entities, and we want to divide the 100 units on the basis of a call for implementation on the basis of the transparent criteria of these 100 units for the best development impact that will create as much growth as possible while at the same time creating as many jobs in the interest of restructuring the Slovenian economy even during this crisis. Since we are confident that the common objectives can be better achieved and that our common objective is stability of the financial and macroeconomic environment, preservation of jobs, but at the same time solidarity with those affected or affected at that time, the start of economic growth either through the infrastructure development of the country or through the direct promotion of investment and the simultaneous planning and implementation of structural reforms, we will reject the proposed law once again.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u93	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! It would be good for us to end the manipulation of how the former government entrusted this country. We have data on the table that, with zero euro deficits or budget surpluses in recent years, we are moving to an astronomical billion EUR 800 million deficit. The measures proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party are neither intended for the opposition nor for the position of the people and businesses in that country. One of these measures is also a change to the law before us. This change is about a concept dilemma, a gap between the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which advocates tax cuts and thereby the promotion of economic activities, and, on the other hand, between the position of the Government which advocates an increase in taxes. On the other hand, it is also the elimination of unequal treatment in terms of investment incentives. For example, after the current regulation, the natural person is as s.p. the possibility of applying a ten-fold higher facility for investing in investments than someone doing so in the framework of d.o.o. If someone buys a million euro worth of pellet making machine and it's a s.p., they'll be able to apply a 300,000-euro relief if they do it as d.o.o., and it's 30,000 euros. This is unacceptable, which is why this has to be resolved. The second thing is even more important. The government of Janez Janša started structural movements in the field of population and economic burden in 2005 with a tax reform that reduced the tax and other burdens on everyone, including in the economy, thereby allowing for at least 3% higher economic growth in the former term than the average of the European Union, with 75% of the average development rate in the European Union. And this way of reducing burdens should be continued; in these circumstances, much more so. For only an increase in economic activity, despite lower taxes, will bring more taxes to the state treasury. What good will high taxes do us if no one has to pay them? Business falls day after day, there are fewer and fewer contributors to the state budget. As a result, the Ministry of Finance's forecast to increase the tax on motor vehicles is completely over and contrary to some sound reasonable logic, as the already reduced sales will decrease by 40% this year and will also reduce the inflows to the state budget. On the other hand, at this point we cannot pass the number of unemployed, which has grown from 60,000 to almost 85,000 in a very short time, indicating that by the end of the year, by the middle of this year, there will be a forecast of 100,000 unemployed. This is an alarm and requires immediate and urgent action. The government is concerned about the benefits of this law. I don't think you need to worry about this job. This law, if adopted, will benefit the best. But we all want them to be as many in our country as possible. We will support the novel in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Lojze Posedel has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u95	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we will not really support the amendment of the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. The explanation that I will give on behalf of the parliamentary group will not be long, will not be detailed, will not be exhaustive for a simple reason, because we would repeat ourselves in those words, arguments that we have already twice, three times in this Parliament with similar or similar proposals of the law, and the proverb also says that only in the mill are things said three times, but in Parliament it would probably be right if they were considered to be said once and then we all understand them. I am more convinced that those who repeat proposals are not in such a state that they do not understand it, but they do not want to understand it and therefore repeat proposals that are acceptable to all those who are in this difficult economic crisis and who want any assistance. However, on the other hand, the responsibility of the Government is such that, in addition to the proposals and measures that would certainly help in this severe crisis, it must take care of the state's public financial framework as a whole, and I think that it has already been said three times by the Government and the Group of Members, indeed, that is why we respect this position of the Government because we are aware that we would also want more such measures, even more assistance to the economy, to legal persons who are certainly in crisis, so that this could jeopardise the public finances system as a whole. It is therefore incomprehensible why these proposals are constantly being repeated, not only do they repeat themselves as individual proposals that we will continue to consider today, but that we have previously considered the whole package and that we are listening to how the opposition is now called upon to set up its own or the real business strategy of this government with the whole package. Last but not least, the Government has assumed responsibility by taking over the leadership of this country. Their views should therefore be taken into account, especially when it comes to finance when it comes to what a measure can bring if it is implemented. That is why I think that all these attempts are intended for everything else, rather than for the economy to be better, that this negative climate created by opposition Members, including the opposition champion at the head, certainly does not contribute to the positive climate that is so necessary in every crisis situation and at that time of crisis that it is even the worst that can happen to us, and therefore it would be good if such proposals were not repeated again, but that the well-intentioned proposals would be mediated to the Government, not in that way. Therefore, at the moment, we will not really support this proposal in the Group of Members, as well as any other proposals that will be on the agenda later.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on corporate income tax is not suitable for further consideration by the Government. Not for the first time and probably if such a proposal were to be repeated soon, not for the last time. In the DeSUS Group, we have so far been in solidarity with such an assessment of the government in relation to this law, but it is also necessary to say why. The proposals introduced by the law - i.e. the proposal for amendments and additions - are not in themselves wrong and it would be a mistake to understand that we are those who do not support it right now, against the fact that the economy is burdened - possibly more than now - and that we are against the promotion of development, technology, research and what else is proposed in this proposal. However, it must be said that in recent years the slide of these options, as far as it is possible to help the economy in the circumstances in which we are somehow saturated, has already been filled. There is no longer much option, if, of course, we are thinking about the whole that we need to think about with the back of these proposed measures. Last but not least, we have already heard a comparison today on the case of general tax rates in comparable countries, and we do not need to be particularly flushed by the heights of general relief as we know it. However, if we accepted all of this, it would seem that our lower revenues from taxes in this year would probably reach over a billion euros. We can't afford all this. Although the ambitions proposed by the proposers are purely correct in our judgment, they must be placed at the time and in the place in which they are proposed. They are proposed after years ago, and after years of interruption or at least a slowdown in the general and tax reform forecast. And then the reform also brought a lot of good things into the economy; they appreciate a lot of change, of course they would still want. It is true that that tax reform has also brought another happiness - that it has not been fully carried out as it was intended to. Probably significantly greater problems would have been both public and public health if it had been carried out to the end and the social consequences would probably be even more difficult to manage than they are today. However, this tax reform, of course, also had some weaknesses with the abolition of some reliefs, but with some other measures, which were not yet taken with the favour of the economy, such as the reduction of some of the burdens, the abolitions of housing reliefs, which the population felt, as well as other negative effects. And all of this has brought about a set of circumstances in which we estimate that what is now being proposed is already more than we can handle. Targets. If the objectives of decommissioning the economy, accelerating development potential and preserving jobs have indeed been taken into account, of course, they are the objectives of all of us. Whether it is only through these proposed measures that we are now talking about or not, it is, of course, possible to ask questions. The government and with it, the government coalition estimates that other ways, other means, other instruments and these government proposals could have been seen in coalition parties. Since the Government's proposals and the opposition's proposals go slightly to each other, the conclusion is therefore quite clear, the DeSUS Group will support the government's position on the proposed law, which means that we will vote in favour of a bill that says that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u99	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President, colleagues, colleagues. Obviously, the objective of today's session was probably only the first point. But now that we're talking about concrete content, I guess I won't be interested, although, as far as I'm concerned, I don't think that's right. As regards the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Income of Legal Persons, each person has the right to have an opinion. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe and assess that it would be right to support it. If you want just for a little while, go ahead why. You can also read this in an explanation of what the article brings. Who does not want the benefits of investing in science and development to be increased? Who doesn't want that? I can't imagine, even for the government I can't imagine he doesn't want to. I don't know who doesn't want the taxpayer to enforce a 30% reduction in the tax base in the amount of equipment invested, because more will come to this account that they want to invest. I don't know. This article hurts the most. Article 3. Who opposes having a general tax rate as set out in this law, 18%? If I had been involved in the drafting of this law, but I didn't, I would have written 15%. I'm going to give you a comparison to Article 3, but why do you think the Valentino Rossi, or Michael Schumacher, or someone else has applied to Monaco? Why do they live there? Why do they pay taxes and bring money? Because there's a tax oasis. Why wouldn't Slovenia, for example, have a 15% tax rate and be a tax oasis and I'm sure the flow of investment and capital would be great. Big! Because you can make up the number you want, but that's the truth. Tell me, why are they going to Monaco? Why is Rossi in Monaco? Can you answer me? You'll probably tell me I'm wrong. All right! You have the right to your own opinion. If we move on. Who doesn't want to, or what I would tell you, because you can read, and I hope you've at least read paragraphs 4 and 5. Article 5 speaks of the reduction of the tax rate from year to year. I understand the Government's claim in response, which I have read precisely, which states: macroeconomic forecasts make the public financial picture worse for 2009, significantly lower VAT revenues, income and so on. Yes, dear people, who's gonna pay for this? Of course, they go down, they go down because everything goes down in francs, because people don't have work, and if there's no work, there's no taxes, and if there's no taxes, of course, the incomes that are planned are going down. And what you're going to do now when you say, "We're against lowering the tax rate to 18." What are you gonna do about it? Nothing, an even greater tax deficit will be, or the same as if the tax rate is reduced from 21 or 23 or 25 to 18. By making the psychological reduction of the tax rate more favourable to all those who have the desire and intention to invest. It's a simple economic logic that you can't deny to me or the doctors or the Master, but I know you have your own directions. Why don't we find a common language? Why do you just have to throw stones off the left bank on the right bank and wait for someone to hit? But in this river, when you throw stones, left and right, there are people in there who drown, that's the problem. The one and the other side only sees political fog and just some political hatred, who did something and who didn't. A smart consideration of what needs to be done - is lowering tax burdens the kind of instrument that might ease our recession? For I will tell you again, and you will remember in three years, the crisis is not yet, but it will - in any case, whether you adopt this law or not. If we don't accept it, there will be fewer investors, fewer jobs, even more poverty, no one will pay taxes, no one will pay, but if we adopt this law, lowering these rates, and maybe someone will remember and come to invest in Slovenia, and maybe we will get some new jobs on this account, and maybe we'll get some more taxes from this title and all the taxes we collect from people, back to the state treasury and then try to help them. I wonder what that's gonna look like. I have a practical case that I'm going to tell you some other time when a private person is, you know, the minister knows, too, because I asked him, despite the fact that the company is healthy, he threw 80 people on the road. And now I've found another potential investor who has the will to hire and work these people, but he expects help from the state. Or he'll get it, but I'll tell you later, from practice, not from papers and theories. The Slovenian national parties will support the proposal of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, as foretold and said, we agree with the proposed text of the amendment to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. Most Slovenian companies did not benefit from the new amendment adopted in January because the reduction to EUR 30,000 is simply a ridiculous low for a common craftsman, not only for a serious small, medium or large company. The situation for Slovenian companies and the economy has, unfortunately, not changed much for the better despite all the laws adopted. It is urgent and immediately necessary to remove this undue amount of relief. We agree with the proposals: for the first time, to increase facilities and non-departures of long-term resources; for the second time, to increase incentives for investing in research and development; for the third time, to lower the corporate income tax rate in 2008, 2009, 2010 to 18 percentage points. Only through such measures can we ensure the start of new investments in the Slovenian economy and, consequently, the opening of new jobs that will be replaced already lost. I wonder how it can be better and more effective to stimulate investment, technological development, research that will give new jobs, if not through direct incentives or economic facilitation. Are there any other options? I don't think so. Those who claim that investment incentives are not the right measure obviously had little to do with the economy. You know, cost reductions, optimisation of production or improvement of environmental relations - all of this is about investments, otherwise it's not going to work. And many managers have lost their will to think about new investments in the face of current business problems, as no one encourages them to do so. The banks do not lend, but the country, which could trigger and encourage investments through tax policy, acts as if everything is OK and in the best order. In these times of crisis, not daily, but from hour to hour, companies must respond to problems and seek solutions to manage the risks they face in times of crisis, to seek new business opportunities, to provide work and, last but not least, to pay. And the purpose of these measures is to help them overcome this difficult situation. The economy needs more motivation and more support for restarting, overcoming problems and finding opportunities that are also offered despite times of crisis. Just as the economy has to look for solutions to overcome the crisis, the government and the state will have to seek solutions and take measures to ensure their competitiveness, not all measures, but only the liquidity needs of the state budget. This is too small and this will not save the Slovenian economy. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will, as it is said, support the proposed law as a suitable basis for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u103	A kind greeting to all, thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Greetings also to the representatives of the Ministry. The proverb says that the path to hell is pressed with good intentions in the bankruptcy of public finances, and certainly with measures where only expenditure is considered and income is neglected, so, of course, in the introduction, I also say that in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we cannot support the law. In principle, we support the efforts to relieve the Slovenian economy and, at the same time, to promote the economy for investment and consequently growth and development in the acute global, financial and economic crisis. However, the Government must certainly have the right to choose those measures which are publicly sustainable and which take into account the current situation of the Slovenian real and financial sector compatible with the set of measures already in place in the field of financial and economic policy. Last time these measures have been taken by the Government - and thus the entire ruling coalition bears full responsibility. The measures taken by the bill under consideration are identical to the measures contained in the proposals of the first two laws, which were also tabled in the legislative procedure by the group of Members and Members of the same party and which the National Assembly has already discussed and decided on the basis of the reasoned, constructive debate this year. It is therefore essentially a repetition of proposals that have failed in the SDS with previous proposals. For the third time this year, the National Assembly is considering the same proposals. If we viewed the first and second draft of the law, at least in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia as well-intentioned and constructive, the third proposal is seen as an unrealistic act by the biggest opposition party, with which it wants to convince the public in particular how the government and the ruling coalition do not want to burden the Slovenian economy in times of crisis. However, the facts, practices, practices and measures speak differently. In the area of the corporate tax system, we are in the ruling coalition, for example, by the end of 2008, we have adopted a measure aimed at increasing the liquidity of the economy in the current situation and within the scope of the options. It is a matter of amending the law governing the tax procedure in the part which provides for the tax exemption. In connection with the gradual decline in the general tax rate, the measure represents an immediate decommissioning of businesses, not a small amount, but a EUR 50 million. With regard to the recast proposal for a reduction in the general tax rate, it is particularly important to stress that this year it amounts to 21% and that it is gradually decreasing since 2007. Let us give some comparisons to be found in European countries. The corporate income tax rate is now 25% in Austria, 27.5% in Italy, 28% in the UK and 21% in Finland. It is therefore clear from the facts that the tax rate in Slovenia is, of course, competitive. The effect of the reduction of the corporate tax rate is also discussed in previous data from the Tax Administration, after which, compared to the year 2007, the tax was charged for as much as 17.1% less than the corporate income tax, and this is certainly concrete, real and immediate aid to the economy. Maybe some more information. Last year, real statistics showed 3% more incentives for R & D investment than in 2007 and 137.5% more regional R & D investment relief than in 2007 and €109 million of investment relief. Why are we re-emphasizing this data in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia? Because certainly everyone who thinks positively and well-intentionedly shows the trend of decommissioning 77,461 debtors from the economy through the corporate income tax. This trend will certainly continue in the context of the financial opportunities and the resources of the budget. We are certainly united on this matter. Only the financial impact of the increase in investment relief will, according to a government estimate, result in a reduction in public financial revenues from corporate income tax of EUR 50 million. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we find that the current regulation of corporate income tax relieves the tax burden on companies, at the same time we still ensure that the total purchase from this tax source is appropriate. What does that mean in practice? That, of course, we can ensure fiscal sustainability and the most balanced public finances in the medium term. Further burdens on corporate income taxation are no longer ensuring the achievement of both objectives, and we will not, of course, support the proposal in the Group of Members. At the same time, we would also like to stress the difficulty of managing tax policy as an important part of fiscal policy. All together, we must be aware that economic policy is no longer available to monetary and exchange rate policy as two important instruments for dealing with crises and cyclical economic movements with the least possible microeconomic costs and that, of course, the burden of anti-crisis and anti-cyclical action, together with income policy, has taken on exactly fiscal policy. Therefore, in this area, it is appropriate to combine all the powers and competent people we overcome in Slovenia and to give up any populism or any experimentation. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support the establishment of the fiscal world as an independent professional body as soon as possible, which will contribute to the consistency of fiscal policy. I am sure that from our point of view of the LDS, you have been able to understand that our reasons why changes in the law cannot be supported are weighty, substantive and reasoned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u104	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor. Mr. Lois Posedel, he's giving up. Mr. Willie Rezman, he's giving up. Mr. Sylven Tiny, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The law adopted in the framework of the 2006 tax reform, as well as twice amended and supplemented, was essentially well thought out. The aim of the law was to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, as well as for greater technological achievements and greater employment. Tax reform has enabled investment in research and development, which is also one of the necessary measures to keep the economy on the demanding market of Europe. Complementing the law in 2008 resulted in a reduction of the tax base for all taxpayers. The proposed law aims at decommissioning the economy during the global financial crisis and encouraging investment in the difficult changed circumstances as well. Promoting an investment economy is just one of the effective measures that will help us to emerge from the problems we are facing. There is too much talk about austerity measures, which is only too little, since the austerity measure must only be one of the segments of accelerated development. Many companies are linked to exports, which means that they are explicitly linked and dependent on the economic and financial situation of the European Union countries in which they export, so that things need to be set up more broadly, as reserve potentials within the country need to be exploited - the example of construction, the construction of non-profit dwellings, roads and tunnels - and thus intensifying part of the economy within the country. This also opens up new opportunities for us to invest European funds in infrastructure development and to complete the projects already started. Higher reliefs in eliminating the interest on credit must be an essential component of the facilitations to speed up and decommission the economy. In view of the measures taken in the field of corporate income taxation, the State considers that the burden would exceed the limits of public financial sustainability, which is understandable in some ways. There is too much emphasis on charging the state treasury, and this is also the cause of the death of the small and medium-sized economy on meals.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u106	Mr. Franz Pukšič has the word - he is not here. Mr. Bogdan Chapich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Income of Legal Persons. There have been a number of debates about why the opposition's initiatives on how to resolve the economy and social distress are not worth supporting. Not because it was proposed by the opposition, but mainly because the assumption of the source of crisis resolution is wrong. In fact, we are taking measures as if the doctor were to treat patients with high temperature only with medicines that lower their body temperature, but would forget that the causes that led to this high temperature should also be treated. This assembly has already adopted amendments to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons applicable to the 2008 tax year, as well as others which promote development mainly in those areas which we want to relieve. These are measures that promote investment in technological development, investment in equipment, a guarantee scheme and could count on them, but I would not like to repeat myself too much. We have already dealt with and coordinated the law with similar content at the end of 2008 in this assembly and also adopted it. Certainly not in the form the opposition or the proponents of this law wanted, but in line with the Government, but in particular with the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for the sustainability of public finances. The reason for the rejection is also that the applicant did not mention in his explanation the positive effects of the law which had already been adopted and which was already in force for 2008. I believe that it has been difficult to write down the material, that the change in law at the beginning of the year has already enabled or left the economy more than EUR one hundred and fifty million, and that this has had to be saved in some other areas. This relief, however, is much more than it was in 2007, when in Slovenia there was greater economic growth and Slovenia had not yet known the recession or problems in both the social and economic fields. I suppose, however, that the proposal for a bill did not really mean anything. In Article 6 of the proposed law, the proposer proposes that this law be applied already in the calculation of the corporate income tax for 2008. He forgot, however, that part of the tax forecast had already been issued for 2008, that the tax accounts were already in progress, that things were already in the process and in return, in fact, no longer possible. I can also explain this by copying the law already tabled twice or three times, and actually the session almost forgot about this little thing. For this reason, of course, I will not support this law and will vote in favour of the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u108	Thank you. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted. There has already been quite a bit of talk about this today, as well as in recent discussions in some previous meetings. Let me also say that I will not support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u111	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Minister and all others present. The proposer of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons is trying to correct what he has taken in the past. Such proposals for investment facilities and others they have proposed are very welcome. All of these are proposals that are very popular with the Slovenian public, especially the economy, and we would also welcome them. I'd be happy to accept them myself if I didn't sit in coalition benches. At the same time, this coalition is also responsible for the revenue of the budget, but not only for the expenditure. Of course, the government has a particularly difficult task in this difficult economic situation. Because of the economic crisis, which cuts not only by the Slovenian budget but also by the budgets of other European countries, as well as the global ones, I cannot give support to the proposed law. Today we have a third, fourth, substantive identical novelization ahead of us, I think. To discuss this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on the Income of Legal Persons, and not only that, we used in the past, according to my opinion, hours and hours - easier to say in percentages, according to my opinion 80% too much time. If this energy were to be invested in the general benefit of Slovenia and everyone else, today we would be even more able to cope with the situation or economic crisis between us. To all those who have chosen to perform as a form of work in this National Assembly, however, I convey the opinion of citizens and citizens, at least I can speak for my constituency that people do not accept the performances, especially in these difficult times, and that they expect us to act more unitedly and that we together pull this wagon out of the mud in which the global recession swept it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u112	Mr. Rado Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u113	Thank you for your word, chairman. In times of crisis, companies should be encouraged to invest in new programmes and to create new jobs, not to encourage them to reduce their production and business activity. I will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, because I believe that there is a need to encourage those propulsive entities that have some more power, and above all some will to pull this wagon out of the mud of the crisis. By lowering tax rates and introducing incentives to research and development, we will be able to encourage new investments and thus new jobs. Each job means at least a double plus: citizens can work creatively and create added value and at the same time contribute funds to the state treasury. So it's health, pension, and so on. And a second time. Since they are not unemployed, the country does not have to worry about them through social transfers. During a smaller economic activity, the proposed measure means mitigating the negative effects of the financial crisis, while at the same time providing easier conditions for management. That is why, as I say, I support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u114	Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor. He's not here. Dr. Luke Yuri. Anton Anderlich. Joko Godec. Brada Roast. Miroslav Clown. Mr. Anton Kolarich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I will not support the law on corporate income tax. The law, as it is explained, is identical to what we have already concluded in the first months of this year, and at that time we have also decided not to support it. I don't think making the same laws is going anywhere, and it's wasting our time. In short, I won't support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Bezjak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u117	As a proponent. That's right. Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. After all, I see and I am very pleased that quite a number of speakers have confirmed and think that this law is actually good. Except for the fact that they decided not to support this law in the party of the Slovenian Democrats, they are disguising it. I don't see any reason why. Believe that the reduction in the tax rate - you say there will be less revenue in the state treasury. That's not true. Then Monk shouldn't have been long ago. Or Switzerland shouldn't have been long ago. Companies go to invest in those countries or transfer businesses to those countries where there is a lower tax rate and thus gain these countries at the mass of these companies much more than in fact to limit or burden them with high taxes and then these companies run away. Do you want to, or do we want these companies to actually leave Slovenia, move to these countries, as I have listed? Maybe that's the point! We may only want to have a country without citizens and citizens in Slovenia. That too may be the goal. But you must be aware that in fact the country remains and yet the citizens and citizens live from the economy, but not from an empty land, from a cultivated land that gives nothing. I'd like to tell you some of the goals why. The proposed law aims at decommissioning the economy during the global financial crisis, while at the same time promoting an economy for investment, resulting growth and development also in difficult and acceptable conditions due to the expected smaller economic activity in 2009. As a result of the previous financial crisis, the measures proposed will be a mitigation of the negative effects of the financial crisis. The aim of the proposed measures is to ensure easier management conditions, thus preventing the consequences - increasing unemployment. This is the purpose of this law. I am also very surprised that even at this time the economic sector insists on the Slovenian area. And by no means can I understand the previous speakers who finally said that this law would bring no good. But I and the economists certainly think and believe that it brings a lot of good and better. If we have a tax rate of twenty, this year's nineteenth, the second year's eighteen, it's the promotion of purchasing power, the promotion of the economy and all that stuff. I don't know why you're opposed to this - and then I'll come Monday with a red tie, maybe you'll back it up. I don't know. Would that be better? Just believe me, I'm the person who's saying what the economy wants, I'm not the person who should be voting here right now, what my group leader ordered me to do. Unfortunately I wouldn't laugh like that, you know, Mr. Frangež, you haven't even made a move for Maribor. [[...]] Believe me, in Maribor, it is Maribor that really feels the most about this economic crisis. That's why your smiles aren't good. When will you start working for that part of Slovenia, for Styria, to decentralize it from Ljubljana? Then I'll envy you, congratulate you. As long as you don't do these things, I'm afraid I can't congratulate you. [[...]] [[It's a bench ad.]] Did you sign up for the debate or can I finish? [[...]] Thank you. And that's why, absolutely, we've been talking to Minister Križanič for a while now, and I also kind of agree in the first phase, but the minister's somehow afraid of how this hole, the financial hole, will be patched up. And I stand for the view that if you lower taxes, then everyone comes into this oasis to dominate, act and bring more taxes to the state treasury than we have now. This is the path to success, not to destroy or actually increase taxes to the extent that the economy is running away. However, I can announce to you a number of economic operators already in Slovenia, who have moved their headquarters to other countries, precisely those countries. Isn't it a waste of money? This is the development of Slovenia. It's no shame about the money, because we raised the excises when all the transits of tank fuel in foreign countries are done in the parking lot. Isn't it a waste of money? Let us be aware of these consequences that we are actually causing, if you don't think about them at the moment, to our explorers. This is important! You're afraid to invest in investments, environmental investments, technology equipment. Why are you afraid to invest in this? If you're afraid he's much better than other countries. 19 years ago it was said that Slovenia could be Switzerland. Believe me, we were better than Switzerland by last year. Not that you could be like Switzerland. Just for that reason, because such a beautiful life and such a beautiful landscape as we Slovenians have, believe me, it's not. Therefore, I am surprised that you are not proud of this country to care for it, to reduce taxes and that in fact everyone would live proudly in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Frangezh. I have to tell you, if it's a replica, you don't have a replica because you haven't discussed it in the debate. However, you gave the opinion of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u119	Dear Mr. Vice President! I was clearly and insultingly named in the debate, so if you'll let me, I'll be very brief. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u120	No, I can't let you do that because, according to the Rules of Procedure, I can't give you a word or a replica. I have to be the same to everyone. Mr. Minister Krizanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u121	Thank you very much. However, it must be said that "tax heaven" is currently not counted for the most beautiful hours. I think that the "tax heaven" will deal with the regulation of the heavens by regulators from around the world and will eliminate it. I think this period is moving slowly. What I wanted to say about the corporate income tax, which is now under way, is that there is also our neighbouring country, which does not even have this tax and its results can also be known, that is Hungary. These things aren't that simple. However, as far as debt is concerned, there is a conceptual debate, whether it is a public debt or whether it is a macroeconomic debt at all for the stability of the current national economy. The main problem is, I apologize, it is a macroeconomic debt, because the country later, when the economy is in debt - the population has to enter it. And we have now entered the banking system with 3.7 billion, otherwise this is slightly changing, but importantly, we have not issued bonds at all to cover the budget deficit, we have issued them to defend credit activity at a certain level and to prevent a deep decline that would follow due to the contraction of this activity. We are now engaged in longer periods of service, so you will kindly or kindly support the law on the guarantee scheme. Now, let me introduce you to what are the results of this macroeconomic debt, which has led us to a very slippery terrain. Slovenia has started to become a structurally dependent region from 2004 to 2008. As early as 2002, we had a current account, from abroad - this is exports, imports of goods, services, factor services, wages, interest, licences for programmes and so on - overrun of EUR 247 million or one percent of gross domestic product. Then we slowly started to drift into deficits, and in 2008 only last year this deficit exceeded a billion euros, already in 2007 it exceeded a billion and in 2008 it exceeded two billion euros and exceeded 6% of our gross domestic product. These are already Greek results, this is a sign that we are becoming a'red relative', if I may say under terms, our trading partners, who will maintain it or not. At the end of 2004, Slovenia’s gross external debt resulting from these deficits amounted to EUR 15 billion; and at the end of 2008 it amounted to EUR 39 billion. It increased by 155 billion. In 2004, at the beginning of the previous government's mandate, it was 75% of the gross domestic product; it was ultimately higher than the gross domestic product; and it shows that the debt crisis began to receive some of its internal legality leading to the collapse of the economic system. We, who are middle-aged, have witnessed to him once in our lives. At the end of 2004, Slovenia was a net creditor abroad, colleagues, 882 million euros. By the end of 2008, Slovenia had a net foreign debt of EUR 9.5 billion or 26% of the gross domestic product. The most vulnerable part of this indebtedness abroad was not the State, as the State was not relatively indebted. This vulnerable part was linked to the increased exposure of our business banks, namely, in 2005 the business banks were a net debtor of EUR 2.7 billion abroad, and the net exposure of our business banks increased to EUR 8.8 billion by the end of 2008. Most of this increase, about €6 billion, was aimed at lending managers' buy-backs, saying that there was no specific capacity-building that would allow for a later return. Then, however, public finances were stable in this structure. Public finances have been relatively stable, taking account of economic growth. However, last year we had 0.8% of our gross domestic deficit product, mainly due to the indebtedness of municipalities, which is about 300 million euros. If we consider that this year we had to raise the budget with the first rebalancing of EUR five hundred and nine hundred million due to the various legal obligations already assumed by the previous government, in particular the reform of wages in the public sector, but also, for example, such attractions as those that have not been entered into the account at all, such as the remediation of the damage caused by the floods in the railways, and so on, that totalled EUR five hundred and ninety million, and then with the various tax cuts and tax cuts, it is said, in particular, the abolition of the tax on paid salaries and the reduction of the tax rates on the income of legal persons and several others, another four hundred million euro came. At stagnation itself, if the tide did not fall, it is almost a billion 300, a good billion 200 million euros in deficit and 3.5% of gross domestic product without even trying. In short, the instability was really great. And now to all of this to lower the tax rate, while reducing the tax rate, where some substantial investments will not be so, because there is no demand because there are no export orders. We can encourage export orders with some common standardised budget deficit, which is being implemented by all developed economic levels of countries in order to trigger economic activity and thereby increase economic activity throughout the European Union. And in this way, today's trading partners have also started to grow and that we will begin to grow. At the same time, we are recapitalising the International Monetary Fund to remedy a less developed part of the world. For us, Eastern, South-Eastern Europe, too, is particularly important. In this way, we will further strengthen our trading partners, who will start buying again. And here the measures are now being withdrawn, they are already being implemented, which, in the final instance, must nevertheless lead to conversion on this market and then to gradual recovery. From this recovery will follow the so-called exit strategy, the stabilisation of the strategy, which will require additional savings from us for about two years, and I hope that these savings will also be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that. When I listen to the debate, not only at this point, but in general, it is obvious that it is unwilling to listen to these well-meaning measures, which, together with all the five laws proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, wants to pay particular attention to the small and, of course, to the medium economy. No matter what anyone thinks about it, the only solution is to get out of this situation in Slovenia, as well as beyond the borders, by reviving the economy. In Slovenia, the economic climate is in the last six months, which has been shown by international research, which has, in fact, been three times more reversed than the average in the European Union. And I think that's a bad indicator. A lot of people who have the idea of potential entrepreneurs or even existing ones have no courage, no interest and, of course, no money, not to realize the entrepreneurial idea. And precisely such measures, where we promote knowledge where we promote development, where we also promote the possibility of simplifying administrative procedures, are measures that would give our entrepreneurship some optimism that would open up the cycle in order to make a more courageous, more determined decision to restructure either their existing production or even to open up businesses and even additional jobs. I know quite a few entrepreneurs myself. Some of those who have experience, however, can, Mr Minister, as well as other colleagues, if they were here, tell you that they have been disappointed over the Government's actions. But it is not in some sense of populism or some dissatisfaction, but mainly because of the greater expectation that you will listen to these needs of the economy, which of course it also has; let it be in the area of bank financing - our largest bank is in fact the most impossible, the least it has to pay attention to them, but they cannot get the necessary money; tax reliefs that would help them to overcome this situation, just as they, at least at the moment, do not allow any optimism for their development. However, I would expect these proposals to be re-heard of, tried or accepted, or looked for other upgrades that would, of course, also run this cycle. In the following we will have a debate on some additional laws, and I think that the set of all these laws can move Slovenia out of an enviable situation in which we are actually falling more and more from day to day. Let's make this effort here, not argue whether it's yours or ours; this is what our entrepreneurs, our economists expect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u125	Nicely greeted. Since 9 p.m., we've been hearing about limitless populism and how to help this country. I mean, dear colleagues, that Minister Gaspari has really been hacking into your data today, telling you what it was like, how it was planned, and that you know exactly where the government wants it. I think that these fantasies, how to save the country from the crisis, are already too much, and I hope that in another republic I will not have to pay my income. I would like to say that we cannot support this bill because it is not one that would allow further development of the economy in our country, without the fact that we do not have to mention in particular that we are all for not paying taxes, that we are burdened with certain expenses, but the Government must also take care of certain areas that we urgently need when we are in trouble. And that's the government's job. With such bill proposals, we will not be able to come out of the crisis that we are in today, on various grounds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u127	The Minister spoke earlier about credit exposure abroad and I think he said it correctly in his implementation. He referred, of course, to the previous term, because today we are supposed to talk about how it will go on, and I see that we are mostly talking about what was good back and what was bad. And it was said that the credit exposure of the State was not too high, that it was appropriate. We know that in recent years we have been even less indebted than we have been allowed to do with the budgets we have adopted in this country. But that the credit exposure of business banks was the one that was problematic - and now I ask you, who was the one who was watching this? Isn't that what Banka Slovenije is up to? Wasn't Mr. Gaspari until recently the governor of this bank? Aren't there still the same people that Mr. Gaspari has trained and taught in these times how to work? One of them was confirmed vice-governor yesterday. That's the problem! And if we want to talk about these problems - we can, but at one of the next extraordinary meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Maribor was mentioned earlier by the proposer. Some of the measures, the anti-crisis measure taken by this government, have also been adopted through the experience of the Maribor economy and for the needs of the Maribor economy. Any of these effects, by the way, have also benefited your company, Mr Bezjak. We are in regular contact with the Maribor economy. It is true, however, that the Maribor economy today is fundamentally different from the economy elsewhere in Slovenia. The 1990s in Maribor were such that Maribor had already restructured its economy in a significant part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Does the government want more? Mr. Secretary, would you like another word? Minister, Dr. Crusader? Does he want a proposaler? On behalf of the motioner, Mr Bezjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I have to thank the previous speaker for remembering my company. But I don't know if he helped that my company actually opened up or that the current Minister of Economy has somehow opened one of the two companies and the rest are just closing down in Slovenia. It's an honor to have Dr. Matthew Lahovnik here to open this company. But not thanks to my predecessor, who was saying that he did much to open up a company in Maribor. Unfortunately, then, on foreign titles, it's out of the question. Let them do their own work and create for themselves, then they can boast for themselves. I'll compliment them, too. Thank God. Mr. Minister, I absolutely agree with you quoting certain things. Yes, but once again, I stress that by reducing taxes, new businesses, more businesses, more people, civilian people, civilians, legal persons would have more money, more money would be spent, more money would be needed for purchases and so on. In our actions, there are many things presented to improve this financial crisis. The Secretary of State knows well, in the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, the sums of investments, technological equipment and so on have actually increased. Yes, I agree, I just ask if any other company has been given this, because something we agreed on, which we have adopted, is a law that is not yet in implementation. The third level of people in the ministries, if I may say so, is the one who implements these programs into life. Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance also said that they were already measures; unfortunately, these things are not yet in life. I agree that we have already proposed some things, but in life this economy has not yet felt anything or very little. That's the problem. It is absolutely necessary to reduce this part, these hands, so that companies will receive real money, development aid and so on at the right time. Because if that's not the case, then every day they just shut down businesses. On Monday, the Minister of Economy himself told me that, in fact, during this year, between January and April, seventy companies were closed and went bankrupt. That is why I ask myself whether we already have measures that are functioning, whether these measures are enough to mitigate or allow businesses to actually start operating again within the limits of normal. I believe that they will not be able to make as ambitious progress and create as they have been in the past four years, in particular in the last four years. Also with overpaid VAT - yes, indeed, we have taken action, but, you know, last night is a well-known entrepreneur or among the most successful entrepreneurs in Slovenia Boscaroli said that of this money - or this date for overpaid VAT 1.1.2010, will any company be able to benefit from it? I am aware, Minister, of how to now share this bag of money, how to fill this bag and how to actually take money out of this bag and where to give it. This money is the most important, believe it is the most important; if we create it in the economy and use it from this bag for the economy, for development, for technology equipment and for these things, then Slovenia will take a big step forward or catch up to what was in the last four, five, six years. This is important. But if we do not take this step or adopt this law, which I am actually defending today, then believe that I do not see any new opportunities, I do not see any new businesses, but I see fewer businesses in Slovenia every day. Economic operators and leaders in economic operators are badly injured, injured from this point of view, because they are being targeted instead of by development, rather than by sales, because economic operators now have to focus on southern, African and those markets, because the Slovenian economy has been all too attached to European markets. These managers have to deal with business liquidity, not with things to actually look for new markets, increase sales and so on. These are the problems. Thanks for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u133	Your Honor, I'd like to ask the Mag. Radić says that projects in the field of promoting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises have already been fully launched. For they were preparing themselves against the balance, and when it was accepted by this esteemed assembly, the matter was also glass.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Dear President! Dear Members! I think it is right to say it again today and thus reject the claim that none of the measures are operationally yet. The fact is, it's not like that. At the Ministry of the Economy, in the framework of the measures that we wanted to maintain the development activity of companies and also to help them in maintaining liquidity, we took the first steps in December. The first measure was to increase the funds by 18 million at the existing call for co-financing of the purchase of new technology equipment for SMEs and to support 100 projects, so that more than 200 projects that applied for the tender and would not otherwise have received funding, although they had good projects. So we wanted to encourage all those who had projects that had already submitted, we wanted to encourage them, and we also encouraged them to invest in technology equipment. We then repeated this call with new funds of €35 million. This invitation to tender received 491 applications, only six deposits less than in 2008. Which means that small businesses, regardless of the crisis, know and realize that they have to invest in new technology equipment. This call is now concluded, the applications are being processed and in June the first companies will also be granted applications and will be able to start investing. In addition, before the adoption of the rebalancing, another measure, a very important measure, namely, the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, in cooperation with commercial banks, provides guarantees for leased bank loans up to EUR one and a half million for investment projects and up to EUR 200,000 for operating assets. This measure is also operational, 250 applications, deposits are being resolved from the outside, companies can already benefit from these funds. Above this measure, I must say that, given that we have found that 90% of the deposits for guarantees relate to loans for the financing of assets, it is said that this also solves the liquidity problems of small enterprises, we have decided, and also given that the demand is large, that we will increase the potential there by another 32 million guarantee funds. This, we believe, will be enough for all small businesses, healthy small enterprises with a future with development, to be able to receive this support this year. And I have to say that here the bank contracts are signed, most of the banks are involved. Some, I will not say that they are all exemplary, but most banks are exemplaryly cooperating with the Slovenian Enterprise Fund in implementing this measure. Let me also mention that for new investments, it is true for new companies, for start-up of new companies, 2 million euros, 90 projects will be supported, according to those, new, high-tech ones, will be supported by these funds. These roles are also resolved and, in fact, they are still waiting for the contract to be signed. Risk capital, the venture capital fund we supported. Unfortunately, I have to say here that we have planned that this measure has already been prepared by the previous government in such a way that it will be operational immediately, that only money must be provided. When we started this action when we wanted to start, we found that the venture capital companies law would have to be amended to make this measure operational. This law will also be given to Members at the next meeting, which means that these funds will also be operational in the autumn. Then there is another measure, development and investment projects, which is intended for larger companies for development, new and innovative projects. This invitation to tender has also been completed. We have earmarked 50 million for this call and 68 groups of companies have applied. This also means that 68 groups of companies, given that large companies are also present here, mean that most of the healthy economy, despite this situation, invests, thinks about development, which I think is encouraging, and sometimes it is not wrong for such information to be accepted. In short, the measures are already underway. It will be very nice and wonderful to complement the measure when this guarantee scheme finally starts to work. We expect another supplement from this to all these other measures implemented through the Slovenian Enterprise Fund. At the same time, I must say that a small-value aid scheme will also be approved in Brussels within a few days, with which we will spend about 80 million more, this will now be in the balance, and there will still be debate about it, 80 million aids for companies that have already started with development projects, and are now unable to carry them out because of the crisis, or because the banks are no longer following them as agreed, or for other reasons. We will help these companies up to €500,000 in subsidies in order to be able to complete development projects. In short, things are ready, even for the automotive industry we have prepared, at the European Investment Bank a EUR 160 million credit line contract is signed to support car suppliers in Slovenia in order to develop new tools, new technologies, so that they can even be left with suppliers to car manufacturers in Europe. In short, it cannot be expected that from December to today - we all know what the procedures are - that all measures will be feasible or operational within 14 days or one month. However, I estimate that in this short period of time, we have done practically everything we have promised in the first and second sets of measures, at least as far as promotion measures are concerned or to maintain the development activity of businesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. All those who are Lord Bezjak, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Absolutely, Madam Secretary of State, I agree with that and that is very commendable. I know these things, we follow these things, don't worry. But I was gonna say, maybe I was a little inconsistent. For too long, you said yourself: in December there was an invitation to tender, in June they will begin to use. These hands are too long. Here I need to know that European legislation also dictates how, what. [[...]] But here, together with European legislation, we should harmonise and help shorten our hands. This is important. I hope that, as a proposaler, I will have a happy hand - not me, companies in Slovenia - to adopt this law, which we have actually proposed, the proposal for a law amending the Law on corporate income tax, which will mean a lot to people, citizens, companies in Slovenia. Here we will take one big step towards the citizens of Slovenia, to the economists and here I see a great opportunity to get out of the crisis. However, if you make a different decision, believe that the consequences will be greater and greater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u137	Thank you very much. All the Members and Members of Parliament who wanted a word, you have received it so far. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Don't you? Yeah. Then I'll open up time for my application. Mr. Dr. Luke Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I am pleased that with my colleague - and I think it will be less - but we will also conclude this ping-pong with Mr Montenegro's capable interlocutor in assessing the bill. I would like to highlight the following and recent observations on the case. Most of the arguments that have been made in favour of stimulating the economy through the "small governorate" - that is, the smaller countries, as a result of lower revenues, that is, lower taxes, are arguments, we probably agree here, which we have heard in the last 28, 27, 30 years. I do not mean to say that they are obsolete, but I want to say that there are arguments that are not new. Since the time of "tacherism" and "reganomix" there has been talk of hypothetical positive effects of lower tax rates in stimulating the economy. However, experience so far has not always shown that this equation is valid. Experience so far shows that this equation is valid only when the tax burden is excessive when this tax burden reaches, such as in our neighbouring Italy, even 60% for legal persons. However, when there is a minimum level of 40%, 30% or less, the lower tax burden usually means lower revenues, as it no longer means stimulating the economy further. This is evident even in the United States of America, where there is now a clear discussion of more European - the US - so higher taxes, higher burdens, and this is evident in the so-called tax havens. Tax havens are usually small countries with lower structural costs and are countries where income is based on the call of richer people, such as Monaco. I would like to point out that Slovenia, as the first member of the European Union, where the so-called "tax dumping", is a reduction in taxes, a competition in tax cuts, outside the European Union's targeted and strategic policies; and two, where, in terms of economic economic values, or I will recover, economic paradigms, is difficult to accept. If I received additional taxes in Slovenia today, I would probably not be encouraged by substantial consumption. We would only encourage saving and encourage saving by those who do not need saving today. Saving on the part of those who make profits today anyway. However, in an economy where profits are not in one way or another, because companies are, of course, struggling with positive zeros in these times, even lower income is not a solution, whereas in any case they are a loss of public finances. It also means the mandatory consequences that would follow: the reduction of social services, the reduction of public services that the State can provide. And this is completely contrary to what is the economic and social paradigm of the left-wing government, which we are leading by the Social Democrats. Otherwise, this dialogue is perfectly legitimate and I understand from the right-hand side the proposal to lower the tax. This is also in line with the theory of "small governorment" of SDS, but it is completely contrary to theory, economic theory, economic theory of the left-hand centre and social Democrats. That is why this is totally unacceptable to us. We do not accept that at the expense of lower revenues we should lower public services, worsen health care, education and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u140	Nice greetings again to all present. So Slovenia is, of course, part of the global world, and it has been repeatedly said that the situation that began at the beginning of last year, somewhere before, has undoubtedly also affected the situation in our country. There's no doubt about it, and before that, no one's ever gone blind, not last year or this year. There was only one significant difference: last year Slovenia had a significantly more favourable starting point compared to some other European and world countries because it had a higher rate of economic growth than the comparable countries in our neighbourhood. And this potential that Slovenia experienced last year in all three quarters in 2008 was an appropriate basis to be used when taking appropriate measures to avoid going down this year as far as it looks like we will go on the basis of the latest forecasts. Let us remember once again, at the end of last December, the Umarje forecast was that Slovenia will have 1.1% economic positive annual growth this year and 0.6% positive economic growth forecast by the European Commission. We had a cold shower three months later: a forecast of negative 4% relapse. This is a negative 4% based on previous positive predictions. It is important to ask why this has happened: whether this has happened only because of external circumstances or because the new government has not followed a path that was already set up with the old government in October and November. For those things that were set up in October, which were later adopted, have been fulfilled positively. Some of the measures that have already been planned and envisaged have not been summarised, but those that the Government is talking about all the time cannot be traced anywhere and are still practically absent. And what has recently been brought into the National Assembly and adopted is inoperable. It is normal, therefore, that the failure of the current government has been the reason that this situation has deteriorated significantly more than it would normally have been in the circumstances in which we are. And what happens at this point? If I understand the government, I have a feeling the government is relying on what they're doing around us. For normally, given that our economy is mainly outwardly oriented and that we are dependent on foreign countries, positive measures taken in other countries are expected to have an impact on our economy more recently; and the truth is that they do. The fact is, where it comes from companies operating abroad where the matter has started to turn in a positive direction, these positive movements already feel. For this reason it is abnormal why Slovenia, why this government in this case does not listen to the opposition, which proposes nothing bad, only good and does not summarize the things it is talking about, partly in the material, when it is forgotten, but it is already running, and these things will be, and these are being prepared, etc. It's actually the wrong world. There's something similar about this marriage. Why does the government burden itself with whom this law will benefit, since there will be no one left to invest? This is completely wrong thinking. I think it is right for us to adopt a legislative framework and help the good ones, the ones to draw; and thank God that it would be as much as possible. On the other hand, it would be necessary to eliminate this unconstitutionality so that someone who is s.p.; invests ten times as much or enforces relief for ten times as much as someone who is not s.p.: but d.o.o. This is what I think is purely a wrong policy and should be urgently addressed. In this case, the SDS acted responsibly. We have proposed a framework for decision-making. I'm going to stress once again what I've already stressed today. These measures, in order to understand each other, are not intended for any opposition or position, these measures are intended for the country, the people living in that country. And the opposition in charge can't care what happens to this country. We would be pleased if the Government acted differently, even in the case of this law, because there will be no public financial consequences, as indicated. The public financial implications are reversed, as was the 50 million that will have to be given to recover investments that we know will not have to give. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u141	Mr. Secretary, do you want more?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Let me add that the projections made in March were estimated at a 4% drop in gross domestic product this year on the basis of the results on gross domestic product in the last quarter and can therefore be attributed to the beginning of the crisis. If I were [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] lowering it to a lower level, I would assign it to someone, but if we leave it aside, then I have to say that our problems are the problems of an export-oriented economy. [[...]] All over-average export-oriented economies are more affected during this period than those with more domestic markets, by sharing the fate of these small open economies, as well as some larger ones that justify their economic growth mainly on export demand, such as Japan. Our additional problem is that we have had extensive growth, that we have ignored development policy and that we must now, while tackling the consequences of the financial crisis, also promote economic growth and economic conversion with qualitative factors, with quality factors that will enable us to get out of the crisis to a significantly higher level at which we have come into the crisis, and we are doing so too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the course of time, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda or tomorrow at 02.30 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - FIRST REPRESENTATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE LEGISLATION LAW, IN THE FORMAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. I give the floor to the bill-maker, Mr Rad Likar, for an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, chairman. Greetings to the Minister and to the other members of the government. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Based on the assessment of the situation and on the forecast of experts that the Slovenian economy will fall into economic recession, as the Borut Pahor's government has, in our opinion, responded too late and ineffectively to the global financial and economic crisis, we have decided in the SDS to submit to the National Assembly a package of measures to improve the economic and social situation in Slovenia. One of these measures, which I will introduce below, has also been implemented by the Law on the Amendments and Supplementation of the Income Act, as has already been said, the forecasts of the decline in economic growth, unfortunately, have come true. It's not my purpose in this place to [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u145	Please. Just a minute. Please, sit down or speak outside. Don't come to the hall and disturb. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u146	Our aim is to help the ruling coalition to get out of this crisis as soon as possible and at the lowest possible cost. The aim we want to achieve is to relieve the economy with the amendment of the law, and we want to pay particular attention to the small economy and to individual entrepreneurs in this context. It is these independent entrepreneurs that individuals can create a new impetus in times of crisis and can have a significant impact on the recovery of economic growth. Small entrepreneurs are the most dynamic part of the economy at the same time the most vulnerable part of the economy. Independent entrepreneurs, individuals have poorer trading venues in banks and larger business partners because of their smallness, and at the same time, larger business partners often use their size to enforce better payment and other conditions at the expense of small entrepreneurs. However, this smallest part of the economy is often the most important for the further development and performance of the entire national economy. For many of the world's most famous companies, especially from the technology sector such as Google, Microsoft, Apple and so on, it is known that they have evolved and grew from the ideas of individuals who have also been lucky to have worked in an environment that has enabled them and encouraged them to move their ideas into concrete projects and have successfully developed and expanded their operations. A key country is to create an environment that, first of all, encourages people to decide on entrepreneurship at all, and then to encourage small entrepreneurs to grow and develop. In particular, tax laws are an important part of the entrepreneurial environment. It is important that as many independent entrepreneurs as possible are allowed to operate easily with as few administrative and other costs as possible. The proposed law provides for a simplified definition of the tax base for the higher number of taxable persons who have business income. The proposed law also encourages independent entrepreneurs to employ new workers, which is particularly important during the global economic and financial crisis that threatens and threatens mass forgiveness and unemployment. The main solution to the bill is to raise the taxable person's income from carrying out activities from €24,000 to €100,000 in order to take the standard expenditure into account when determining the tax base of the next tax year. It is also proposed to supplement the condition for compliance with standardised expenditure, which states that a taxable person must not employ workers in order to require standardised compliance with standardised expenditure when taking into account the tax base. It is proposed that, in addition to those who do not employ workers, account should also be taken of the standard expenditure of those who employ one worker. The proposed amendment of existing legislation also proposes to increase the facilitation of investment in R & D. Investment in development and research is expected to increase from 20% to 40% of the amount that represents investment in R & D. It is also expected to increase the relief for those purposes that include the regional component, from 30 and 40 to 50 and 60% of the amount that represents investment in R & D. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franc Krizanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u148	Thank you very much. President-in-Office, honourable Members and Members. Allow me to briefly present to you the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal of the amendment of the Income Law. The amendment proposes changes in the taxation of income from income-generating activities, namely changes in the conditions to be met by the taxable person in order to be able to decide on the tax base on the basis of standardised expenditure and to increase the facilitation of investment in research and development, including the regional component. In times of economic crisis, the decision-making and adoption of individual measures should pay particular attention to the coherence of all measures taken in the context of the fight against the crisis of the effectiveness of the individual measure and public financial sustainability. It is and will adopt a series of measures to address the economic crisis. In this context, it will also explore and assess the possibilities for adopting certain measures in the context of the changes in the taxation of the income of natural persons it is preparing in this year's field. Dear Members and Members. The effectiveness and relevance of the two measures proposed are, however, questionable from the point of view of purpose itself. Let me explain this a little bit more. In deciding to change the conditions for determining the tax base on the basis of standard expenditure, it is necessary to take into account that the tax base system has been applied with a view to administrative simplification in the determination of the tax base for small-scale taxpayers. The flat-rate taxation, the use of standardised expenditure is always only an approximation of the tax base and is beneficial only to those debtors who have actual costs lower than the standardised and therefore are actually making more profits. Such taxation is therefore a departure from the principle of equality, does not take into account the ability of the entity to pay the tax, and reduces the possibility of control for the sole person who is on flat-rate taxation - in this case there are no business books - as well as for the entities that step with it in debt-supply relations. Finally, account must be taken of the importance and benefits of proper and transparent monitoring of the business for the private and for the third party entering the private debt and private relations, the difficulties in obtaining financial resources and equal market performance. The current system is based on choice and the data themselves show that the possibility of standardised expenditure is decided by the taxpayers in order to reduce the tax liability. Given the conditions in force, the tax base on the basis of standardised expenditure could be applied by almost 59% of the debtors, and in fact only 11.5% of the debtors do. Dear Members and Members! All of this requires moderation in determining the conditions for entry into the system of standardised expenditure so that the system does not lose its purpose, this is administrative simplification. With regard to the proposal to increase the facilitation of R & D, the Government considers that the proposed measure would have no effect. The data show that so far this relief has been decided mainly by entrepreneurs or larger companies, but those who are bound to pay the tax on the income of natural persons are not making the right income, and this is largely not decided on. In 2007, only 35 people benefited from this relief and 13 additional regional relief. Dear Members and Members! For those reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the esteemed assembly that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act should not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues! Slovenia was one of the fastest developing countries in the EU, among the countries with least public debt, among the countries with the lowest unemployment rate and among those with more entrepreneurial optimism from month to month, even six months ago. This also points very much to the newly established small businesses. Such conditions did not come overnight and, of course, did not arise on their own. This is due mainly to good macroeconomic and fiscal policy in the past mandate, to promote competitiveness, to invest in science and development and to simplify a number of unnecessary administrative procedures. On the basis of such a favourable economic and public financial situation in Slovenia, the European Commission for Slovenia has still rightly forecasted positive economic growth this year, even though the financial and economic crisis has already shaken the economy strongly in Europe. Even more. Slovenia has been predicted to be one of the few countries with the negative effects of the economic crisis as it will be in the vast majority of other countries. The need to act immediately on the coming crisis was recognized by the previous government under the leadership of Janez Janša, despite the fact that her mandate has expired. It has drawn up a number of legislative proposals that have provided an appropriate and immediate effect on the upcoming crisis, which was also coming to Slovenia. Unfortunately, the new government under the leadership of Borut Pahor and the SD, Really, LDS and DeSUS coalition rejected most of the good proposals smoothly, except for one or two exceptions. The result of such behaviour of the coalition and the government and its non-response to the situation are more visible from week to week, as several hundred people lose their jobs each day, business optimism has been reduced three times more recently in Slovenia than in European countries, and the inflows to the budget are worrying, small. We need to act now. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that action must be taken without delay. Unfortunately, in the last six months, because of the inefficient government, there has been a lot of delays and solutions need to be found and adopted that will work immediately, especially with the economy and small entrepreneurs. Only a successful economy and entrepreneurship will bring development and new jobs to Slovenia, a way out of the crisis and ensure adequate social sustainability for our pensioners and young people in school. This law, which is also proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, is this law that we are currently considering, the Income Act, can contribute together with other laws to achieve this objective. The key point is that, above all, our small entrepreneurs, who are the most vulnerable and also the most adaptable to changing market conditions, are encouraged to invest in knowledge and development and to employ new workers in an unnecessary way. It is also important that this law continues to further encourage small entrepreneurs to invest in science and development, which have an enterprise in those parts of Slovenia that are less developed. This also contributes to decentralisation. The law, if adopted, can have positive effects in a short time and, above all, what is extremely important to me is that it gives our entrepreneurs an important message. This is that the state will encourage and support our economy to invest in science and development. This will certainly restore the necessary optimism and positive economic climate among our entrepreneurs. According to data from the Ministry of Finance and in the light of experience from the past period, such measures would not have an excessive negative impact on the state treasury, but with the recovery of entrepreneurship and new employment, positive effects could soon be achieved. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the proposal for a law on income is the right solution and the right answer to the situation that is becoming increasingly worrying in Slovenia. We will support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party and expect support from other parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Lojze Posedel will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Time is gold, so I'll be very short. We will not really support the proposal for amendments to the Income Act in the Group. We have been convinced by the Minister's strong arguments, the situation in which we live, the conditions of management, all the calculations presented by Mr Minister and Government at this point, the kind of proposal of colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, so just for a short time: we will not support it, even if we repeat the long-standing arguments made by the Minister, I am sure that the applicants would not want it or, I hope, that they would not be able to understand it. Therefore, we will not really support this proposal in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u154	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, we believe that the law that proposes amendments to the Income Act is consistent with the Law on the Income of Legal Persons, and even some solutions. It is clear that it has also been rejected on our part by the proposal of the previous law to follow the same position now. However, I would like to explain that this law proposes two in particular. In fact, a higher threshold that determines what standard expenditure is and which, by what it proposes, in fact transforms an exception into a rule. If this is the case, then it is not only about changing this law, but rather about changing the philosophy of this law, and it would require another, different law - law, which would make exceptions in a way that would become a rule. Moreover, as with the extent to which these rights are used in the field of higher R & D relief, very little use has been expressed in this item, so the question is whether it makes any sense to do so. The second important thing about this bill is that we are now starting to dance four laws, which is very interesting because the first three sides have the same - each of these bills. And in this context, the most interesting thing is that the proposer says that experts are professionals to predict. And they predicted that Borut Pahor's government would be ineffective. And they predicted a recession. And they predicted a lack of response and predicted how much the government would miss. So, if it were enough to look at a bullet, then what governments and some experts would really not need, because it seems that any of the experts who would not approve of it would be able to find it in the entire state administration, in Umar or in the government, or wherever, who would also know it professionally, not only to challenge it politically. So, already this way in which it is introduced into the law is a way that is likely to completely depress the ambition offered by this proposal. However, there was, I think, a warning today, perhaps in other words presented in the introductions to these four laws, a manifesto trying to figure out where the light is and where the darkness is. And it is clear where the proposer, the light, and where the topic find it, but on such dualist philosophies in our national assembly we should probably not sit. The former Government is not to blame for the crisis and recession or is solely to blame, and also one who has not even had time to cause all this. Therefore, it would be better than to go into the marshes of mania to see what can be done wisely for this economy, and this proposal does not represent this smart move, so we will not support it in the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, I welcome you here. I didn't see you before. Look, here's a proposal for a law that basically has two essential articles, and that's one content. Now I want to be on behalf of the Slovenian National Party very-really what we are trying to be all the time, constructive opposition. These two articles speak and have their content, Article 2 is related to the content that we discussed a little earlier, which I personally - and I believe that my colleagues too, because we have expressed support for the previous law - I support. I don't want to politicize, but I don't think it's fair, colleagues and colleagues, but now I'm going to be constructive on your part, with your saying that in the opening statement you've been predicting the situation of the Czech Republic, the Pahor government is to blame. Look, I respected the previous government as well as the current one, and I thought that there were many good ministers, but to say that you didn't know because the knowledge of the previous ministers, that they didn't know that the previous government didn't know that the crisis was coming in April 2008. And on September 15th, when the recession came, with a call, they knew, of course, that ministers were also full of knowledge from this government. You knew! And not now saying that this government is suddenly responsible for everything. That's not true, let's be honest, let's be friends, let's be honest. The fact is that the previous government knew about this crisis and that this government knows that it must come out of this crisis. And that's it. And now shooting again to the left makes no sense. When I read the state assessment, Res, I have a sense of responsibility, it's not fair to say that we don't know if we know. [[...]] I say again, out of respect for the former government, because I know that they were capable and conscientious people, that they wanted good, as on this side I know they want. But we knew there was a recession ahead of us, we knew that the crisis was coming, and now we were pretending that there was a crisis in front of the new government. It's not working. Today we have to solve our problems. Today we have to solve our problems. There are basically two articles in this law. That's what we're talking about. Article 1 which states that in the second point of Article 48, the number 42,000 shall be replaced by the number 100,000 euro. And also the content, the explanation, I support it. I feel her well-intentioned. I also have to support Article 2, which I have previously advocated in my previous marriage, because otherwise I would be double-faced. I personally support this bill's proposal. However, I cannot and must not be, I speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, but of course in such a way as to transfer everything now, the blame to the other side. The Slovenian national party has tabled an amendment to return the five-stage income scale to five. That was our good purpose. Our good purpose. But he wasn't respected. It's with the former authorities. But the fact that it happened from five degrees to three degrees at the time of the recession, I believe it wasn't intentional. To avoid misunderstandings, it was not intentional by the former government. But it caused even greater social diversity. It happens, anyone who does what's right makes mistakes. But these mistakes that have been made need to be corrected. Don't read them, fix them. Our proposal for a five-degree pension scale has not been accepted. Okay, that's okay. But you'd be right to be. Because that three-footer made a crazy difference between the rich and the poor. This is a fact that we must accept personally, and I accept it, because I am already in the third term, we have decided, we have created. I believe that everyone in the good spirit of creating good for this vocabulary. But it happens. And I couldn't help but show the constructiveness of the opposition, the Slovenian National Party. A lot of things don't go as well as they should go on this side, in this government, because they can't unify, that's a fact. But you knew a lot, and you hid it, and that's a fact. But let's take the middle way, try to accept what's good. For me and my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party, this proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income is also a good one, without any indication of what the assessment of the situation is. I hope this is an attempt by the previous government to partially correct what a person does because he does a lot of work, even sometimes a mistake. On this side, however, I would expect to take into account some objective, perhaps good intentions that this side has displayed. We support this law in the Slovenian National Party. In view of the fact that we have also supported point 2 of this Act in the preceding year, we cannot be different from those of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u158	Nicely greeted, honored present! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the main solution to the bill's proposal, which is to raise the taxable person's income from carrying out activities from €42,000 to €100,000, so that when determining the tax base of the following tax year, it may require that standardised expenditure be taken into account. It is also proposed to supplement the condition that standardised expenditure is taken into account, in addition to those who do not employ workers, to require that standardised expenditure be taken into account by those who employ one worker. We also support the increase in the facilitation of R & D investment. In these times, however, it is essential to allow as many independent entrepreneurs as possible to operate easily with as few administrative and other costs as possible. The proposed law also encourages independent entrepreneurs to employ new workers, which is particularly important during the global financial and economic crisis which threatens and threatens mass forgiveness, unemployment. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Anton Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed Act amending and supplementing the Income Act refers to a proposal to amend the conditions to be met by the taxable person in order to determine the tax base of the activity on the basis of the standardised expenditure. The law proposes an increase in the price from €42 000 to €100,000 in revenue. The way in which the tax base is determined on the basis of standardised rather than actual expenditure is incorporated into the law with a view to administrative simplification of the tax base. There is a proposed increase in censorship; as I said, from 42 to 100,000 euros; a taxable person who can use a reduction in the tax base using standardised expenditure. However, it has now been shown that 42 thousand out of 84.664 persons analysed are now eligible for the use of the standard income of 59% of taxpayers, and only 11.5% of the taxpayers have benefited from the reduction in the tax base. This raises the question as to the meaning of the proposed solution in the law tabled by the opposition. However, since a comprehensive approach is needed to systematically address the complexity of establishing the tax base by simplifying tax legislation for natural persons, the Social Democrats Group will vote in favour of concluding that the law is not suitable for further consideration. However, the Government has committed itself to examine and assess, in the light of these frameworks, the possibility of extending the definition of the tax base by taking into account the standardised expenditure under the measures it is preparing this year in the area of taxation of the income of natural persons. With regard to the proposed increase in R & D relief, I should mention that it would have virtually no effect and that such a measure is therefore unnecessary. In addition, the data show that so far this relief has benefited companies in particular, while entrepreneurs have benefited to a very limited extent, as also indicated in government material, in 2007 only 35 commitment-holders benefited from general R & D relief and only 13 commitment-bearing regional R & D relief. It is therefore appropriate to maintain, for both companies and for entrepreneurs, a grant for research and development to the same extent. The Group of Social Democrats will vote in favour of the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Does Mr. Willie Rezman want a word? Thank you very much. He wants the word Anton Anderlich? No, no, no. Franz Puksich? No, no, no. Renata Brunskole? Here you go, Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u162	Nicely greeted! As the fellow Member of our parliamentary group has already said, I am also evaluating and will vote in favour of the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u164	Thank you very much. One of the reasons, not only in the case of this law, but practically in all the laws of the Government, why these laws and these changes are not acceptable, were the so-called public financial consequences or simplified by Golobic: "We know how long the sheet is to cover ourselves with it. And since we don't want our legs to look out, we have to cut." In fact, how long this sheet is and how much the financial consequences of this law also mean, we can look at this material. All that is envisaged by these laws, and even more so, is covered by the item we have in the adopted 2009 balance of the country's budget, subsidisation of full-time work. This is an item that has been adopted at EUR 230 million under the Law on subsidisation of reduced working time, where not even 10% of the funds have been used up to the end of the year and cannot be used up by the end of the year or, theoretically, 30%. Which means there's more than 120 million euros in reserve here. Not to mention those 50 million that were fictitiously brought into the balance sheet, where you were building that the closing account for 2007 was wrongly adopted. And what one of the ministers told you today is that he doesn't claim to have had a 2007 closure. Thus, the reason is not and cannot be a public financial consequence, because there is sufficient money in the current balance sheet. Then what's the reason? At least I would like to hear it by the end of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Given that all the proposals proposed by the biggest opposition party with a desire to help build measures to overcome the recession and the economic crisis lead to the direction that the government has made clear at the first point of today's meeting. Style is based on the times of Reaganism, when it was necessary to reduce income in the United States budget, to increase expenditure and the hole created by it was financed by the whole world. However, we are not the United States of America and, of course, we cannot expect the holes that the Slovenian Democratic Party's actions will open in our budget to be settled with the help of the whole world. As the United States of America today is counting on the whole world to fill their budget gaps again, of course we cannot count on such a way of filling the deficits that our colleagues on that side of the hall would like to make. As a result of this law, which increases the gap and does not reduce, I will not support it and, of course, I will also vote in favour of the decision proposed by the Committee on Economics and Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The bill will have no effect, most likely. Already, of all those eligible for use, only 11.5% of the eligible beneficiaries have decided on standard costs of 84.664. So, the question is, why make such a change? It would probably be a more effective law to say that Durs employees must always smile kindly, at least we would have some of this law. What the effects of such a measure may be, however, is clear. We are talking again about reducing public finances, we are talking again about reducing the possibility that the state through public funds is promoting the economy, we are talking again about a measure that I will not say is old, but mature for 28 years and has been among those measures that have not been implemented in the last ten years. I am surprised that in this package of bill proposals there was little more creativity to not propose measures, for example, to improve access to information services, without proposing measures to make businesses better connected, for example, with the tax administration or other public services. We see proposals that have already been made in the National Assembly, which we have already found to be pointless and repeatable, but of course it is uncomfortable to repeat the same argument again, but we are forced to do so. It's 6:25 a.m., we've been throwing away sides for quite some time, and in this way we've wasted our potential to make more use of it, so I'm going to end this debate. Of course, the law, as proposed, cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I am convinced that only the first point of today's extraordinary meeting justifies the purpose of this extraordinary meeting, while all the other points, all the other five points, are somehow meaningfully linked to what we have already heard today and to which the Government has already answered a few questions. It is true that in point 1 we have heard once again all three sets of measures and also their effects. It is also true that, on the other hand, the opposition has proposed a number of other measures that are likely to be meaningful and likely to be taken into account by the Government, in so far as they have not already been taken into account in the three packages, in the future. Of course, it is pointless now to discuss topics that have already come to the table several times in the National Assembly and have already been the subject of our discussions several times. We have always been negative about them for the reason that, at this moment, which is extremely important and demanding, the Government leaves free hands and that the Government, because it has a broader spectrum over all the events, decides which are the measures that are important and which are incorporated into its crisis reduction measures. More importantly, DeSUS could have acknowledged that some of these measures had not somehow been implemented in the previous government when it was also in the coalition and had the opportunity to implement them and that there were certainly better conditions for launching some of these measures that we have today in the debate. It is likely that at that time it would make more sense and perhaps what we would then involve in part of the government would slightly reduce this negative trend that is happening today. It is for these reasons that I have listed and precisely because we fully trust the Government and we expect it to continue to be strong and meaningful and properly implementing new measures, that there are no conditions at this time to support the amendments or amendments to the laws that are currently on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. He won't discuss it. Mr. Matevž Frangež. He won't. Mrs. Melita Zupevc. She won't discuss it. Mr. Anton Kampush. He won't discuss it. Mr. Marjan Bezjak. Excuse me. Mr. Proposer. On behalf of the proposer, I would like to speak with Mr Rudi Likar. Happy liqueur, sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u172	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Only one brief comment on the application of flat-rate taxation and on the claim that this is an approximation of the tax base and that only those debtors who actually have lower costs are advantageous. This is true, it is about like the use of cadastral income in agriculture, which is also an approximation. And those who want to determine income on the basis of actual costs then decide to keep books and determine income on the basis of actual costs. Catastrophe income and tax on cadastral income is chosen if, for example, he thinks too much of all this administration is related to proposing accounting reports and so on. And I don't see why at this first stage, when an entrepreneur, let's say, when he decides to do business, I guess, or I think, at the beginning, like growing an organism -- first he'd start as a flatlist, then as a s.p. and by the growth of its business, its activities, accordingly, are also growing or upgrading its organisation. Taxation on the basis of standardised costs and a rise in this limit seems useful and acceptable to me and also in the Government's opinion, i.e. the Government's opinion that this requires moderation in determining the conditions for entry into the taxation system, taking into account standardised expenditure, but not that this is not appropriate. I think that raising this threshold from 42 000 euros to 100 is appropriate, but above all it makes sense or I don't think it requires any huge, large budget resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor - no. The word is Miroslav Klun - no. The word has Mr. Daniel Krivec - no. Mr. Franci Kek - no. Mr. Miran Jerič has the floor - no. Mrs. Alenka Jeraja. Thank you very much. She's canceling. Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u174	Thank you very much. It's kind of "your" presence. First of all, I need to find out that we have an obvious government in the shadows. None of the eighteen ministers are present at this point, neither the Finance Minister nor the Minister for Development and European Affairs, nor any other competent ministers covering this area. Sorry, they're not here. The second thing that actually encouraged me to debate is that the Government has written several times in its 150-page document that the measures are being implemented. And I wonder how these measures are being implemented, which are written in this bill. How is this claim realised if it means that these measures are implemented without a legal basis, that the Government implements them in black or does not implement them? Which of these findings, then? If the Government implements these measures, which we have presented, and this is one of these measures, then it can only be implemented in black, illegal, without a basis. And I think it would be right for a government representative, a minister or a secretary of state who has this possibility to tell how they are implementing these measures, which are written in the Income Act. Here we have also heard the claim that this right to account at standardised costs has benefited only, I don't know, 11%, 11.5% of the beneficiaries. You know, that's a lot if we take out how many of those s.p.s that this right belongs to. This is a large number, this is a few ten times higher number than, say, the amendments to the SPIZ Act, when we allowed some widowed persons by military insurers to settle and have a calculated supplement to a widow's pension, several times higher, a few ten times higher several hundred times higher than those. And that's why it makes sense for us to raise the base from 42 to 100,000 euros and even by this category. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] In general, I think it makes sense that we also allow income-trenchers to apply investment reliefs, particularly in areas with limited factors. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. I would just like to point out that Minister Žnidaršič was also present at this point, and in particular at the points we have discussed. And I'm hoping that when he does, he'll still come to the gym. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Anton Kolarich. [[No, no, ……]] There's no government. Mr. Rado Likar. Would you like to discuss this further, Mr. Likar?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u176	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u177	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u178	The closing word is that there will probably be no more debates. We are all human beings and no one is perfect, as this has proved to be today in this debate, and things are not as black-and-white as they appear. I have no intention of convincing a certain man. It was clear from the debate, you said or said how we would decide. Let me stress this once again that the Slovenian Democratic Party's aim was not only to criticise the Government, but to prevent further deepening the economic and social crisis. The fact is, Slovenia is in crisis and no one knows when this curve will turn up. All I want is for today's debate to be a step further towards finding a solution to the crisis and for us to come out of this crisis stronger and, above all, wiser. However, I would also like to see the result of today's debate that it would not seem that time has gone to nothing, that the media would report Slovenia as soon as possible, as I read on the Internet today, in Finance, I think that, namely, in its latest report on the state of the domestic economy, the Japanese Central Bank has estimated that the situation there is improving for the first time in three years. Otherwise, this meeting today and the debate on the package of measures would also somehow be in line with the government's statement at the meeting of the National Assembly on Monday, when it responded to parliamentary questions and expressed its desire to help and not impose on itself in overcoming crises. The Prime Minister says, I quote: "And today I tell you that we will overcome the crisis. We're gonna beat her, but it's gonna take a long and very hard way. The only question now is whether we are going to help each other or not. I'm in favour of helping you as much as possible." We are also in favour of this and our Group leader Tank's response was that they are willing to cooperate, but the coalition must at least listen to our proposals. With this proposal, we wanted to achieve this. However, that the coalition did not have the best intention, it had already shown a meeting of the Committee on the Economy, which on Monday, by a majority of votes, voted that this proposal was not suitable for further consideration, although they had the power to say that the decision had fallen on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Commission. [[...]] We only got government material on the bench today. Perhaps there should be a little more readiness, perhaps on both sides, and surely success would not be lagging behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u179	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Yeah. I'm opening time for an application. Mr. Secretary has also applied. Please, anyone who wants to discuss it, please sign up. The panellists shall have five minutes to report. The first one has the word, Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u180	Thank you very much again. Otherwise, I would no longer comment on the details of the very contents of this law, because I think we have said a lot, and obviously some of us have not been able to get to know or convince ourselves or not to. However, here I would like to point out in particular that it is unfair for the Slovenian Democratic Party, in particular, to attribute to the Slovenian Democratic Party, that in any way it is now attempting to blame the Borut Pahor government that they are the ones who brought the crisis to Slovenia. No one's ever said that. Unlike the current coalition that was in the opposition during the previous term, when inflation was attributed to the failure of the government of Janez Janša, it is well known that inflation was mainly due to high oil prices and, of course, food prices. Today we could blame Borut Pahor's government, and we do not attribute this to the situation in Slovenia. True, this is not only the Slovenian Democratic Party, this is noted by the Chamber of Commerce, this is stated by the Chamber of Commerce, go, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, a little among the people, among the entrepreneurs, but some of you are discussing that you have seen the company inside, and they will tell you whether these are the measures they expect or not, whether they are expected or not. We didn't think of these proposals ourselves. Of course, we have summed up much of this on the basis of information, conversations with people. I think it's the right way to look for solutions for people, not to go here with pinkpox, but who's right, of course, who's wrong. And it's this law that some of you think makes no sense that it's not going to have any effect, and then support it. In particular, if there are no public financial negative effects, you will see whether or not it has had effects. I'm sure she'll have them in a very short time. I think that such discussions are unnecessary and let us discuss more substantively and, of course, also possible complementary proposals that can make such a text, although short, of course, even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister has informed me that he has five to seven obligations, so I give him my word. Here you go, Dr. Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I apologize for occasional departures because I have certain obligations. However, I would like to present the situation in which the Government has obtained an economy so that there is no misunderstanding. We got the economy during the period when the gross domestic product was less than the year before, in the last quarter of last year by about a percentage and fell by four percent annually, the real rate of decline was as predicted for the whole year. We got the country when we took into account all the legal obligations and dropped the tax cuts, which were about a billion and 200 million deficits, for a good 3% of GDP. We got a country that had a deficit in foreign trade for 2 billion euros or 6% of GDP, which was netly in debt abroad for 9 billion euros. We got a country where the business bank had a lot of exposure to the interbank credit market. With very hard work, we have been able to prevent the crisis from cutting into our lives extremely sharply. The full impact of the crisis could not be avoided. They could not be avoided because orders were simply falling on the world market because this decline created some fear that spread among the population of us, which has otherwise stable sources of income. We call it automatic stabilizers, and they didn't act as they expected. Let me tell you, several countries have tried to help their economy by reducing their tax rates, nothing has been known. The decline in the VAT rates in Great Britain, for example, was a complete error that would be repaid for decades by their next generations. This is not helping in this crisis. If it is a minor decline, a minor shock experienced by the whole economy and the population, then such a reduction will help. But here we are at a time when reducing tax rates does not help, it is only a senseless breakdown of the stability of public finances. As far as inflation is concerned, however, it must be acknowledged that it has also been linked to a very strong juncture, that it was not only related to the situation in the global and European market and to the liberalisation flows after our entry into the EU, and then to the euro area and the Schengen border, but also to the reduction of the tax rates that have led to additional demand. This demand caused overheating of the market. This was further affected by the accelerated construction of highways connected with traffic flows, the so-called hump in our highway program. After all, we have had this consequence that our food prices have grown abnormally in relation to food prices everywhere in the developed world. I have been involved in elaborating measures to strengthen this growth in the previous term. However, it was not only an automatic transfer of prices, but it was a transfer of price to some conjunctural overheated environment with an over-average strong effect solely in the field of food prices. But it's not our problem anymore, so we're talking about history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u184	Thank you very much. I will not support this marriage. Not for any whims or reasons such as this or any other, but simply because today’s extraordinary session, convened somewhere between nine and two in the morning, is a demonstration to be watchful on television, through means of public information and is not sincerely designed to help the current government. I've got a little longer to discuss. I would like to highlight a lot of other things so that I can finally tell you why I have said at the outset that I do not agree with this proposal and will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u185	Mr. Crossman, but within five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u186	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u187	Within five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u188	Within five minutes. Everything that has happened in the last four years has not been as bad as a man at first glance. However, there have been some catastrophic mistakes that we have to pay now and that require us to carry out setbacks so that with the money left at our disposal, we can mitigate the crisis, adopt intervention laws and, of course, all that is necessary to preserve jobs so that our citizens have enough resources to survive. One piece of information that we can't get past because today was obvious, I think, Mr Pahor, uncontrolled and immeasurable debt. I don't know how this government could have committed itself in these six months. Surely, though, it is not as much as it was before. 31. 12. 2004 we were in charge of 15,343,000 euros. 31. 8. And 2008 is $40 million. Look at this huge sum of money. Do you think at what rate all these missing funds need to be accelerated to replace? Today Mr Vizjak has said something that I think is very, no harm I will not say, but you have said that some of the measures have been supported, you have voted for them and that you will support and vote for a number of other measures of this government. I believe you and believe in the sincerity of your statement, because you are also the only one who has made such a wise and good statement: "In the coming months and years we will have many opportunities to work together." I am pleased with this statement of yours, because you have been the Minister of the Economy and, of course, we will be pleased to take advantage of your knowledge and I hope that you will also talk to your colleagues about such good intentions. In doing so and in this way, I am confident that we will get this country out of the crisis and that we will get on the path of plenty as soon as possible and that our efforts will be paid. However, I will not support this law, as it is said, because it is not intended to change anything, it is intended to have the opposition act today and, of course, wants to prove that the current government is incompetent and does not adopt a timely law. And you're offering solutions, in every pocket of one marriage, and one fugitive might believe it, but the only thing I'm going to say is, I don't know, I can say that what Mr. Vizjak said, I'm going to follow, I'm going to repeat, and I'm going to ask you if you really meant it. Otherwise, it is just a manoeuvre of power and, of course, a manoeuvre for TV3 viewers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I think that today's debate has shown that there has been a general aversion to all the proposals of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Not a single item of the agenda has been processed today by coalition Members in such a way as to be able to say, and this is an appropriate measure to address the economic crisis. The second thing I want to remind you of is that this law has no significant financial implications. This is what it says in the explanatory statement, this is what it says in the justification, and the government probably didn't challenge it, and it has no financial implications. In short, it's just resistance, resistance to what we've proposed. Thirdly, since it is essential in important work, this law also brings administrative burdens because it changes the possibility of calculating costs and also the way in which it is charged for an important part of independent entrepreneurs. In short, it means an important administrative burden. Fourth time. It brings additional incentives for investing in investments, in activities. Particularly important for less developed areas. And a fifth. In fact, your discussions show how you feel about Slovenian craftsmanship. After the war to this day, World War II has not changed even by a millimeter. They don't allow them to develop normally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Luke Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u192	Thank you very much. The law has already been examined and has not received the support of this National Assembly. Is that right? I think he is. So, the question is whether it is a decision to re-submit the same text, as a result of expectations, I look on your side, that we may have become smarter, from your point of view, that we may have become a little less clever from our perspective or that it is easy, given the law on large numbers, that we will sometimes mispress the button and that only by case will the law be passed. I don't see any other reasons. At the previous hearing, we have heard arguments about existing ones, but we have not received arguments against existing ones. We put them up, faced them, and finally found that marriage was not appropriate. I don't understand why you expect us to find out otherwise this time. The text is the same and the arguments have not changed. Except that we can add this argument that the law is not appropriate because it actually renews one content that has already been dealt with and has already been rejected. So why the same text again? I believe you believe in the pleasure or the pleasant appearance of this marriage before television, in the media, but it will not bring more than that. You told your colleagues yourself that the public financial impact would not have any effect. So if it does not have public financial effects, it means that no one will save anything, so there is no need to accept it. But if someone saves something, of course they do. It's true, too, fellow Grill, it'll be saved at administrative costs, that's right, here you are right. However, the question is whether this saving in administrative costs justifies possible other abuses or not abuses, but the use of this law by those who would otherwise have to pay as much as they actually owe. And now we put this on the scale and, of course, it's a legitimate matter of decision or we find it's worth it or we find it's not. It's my opinion that it's not, and so don't hold back, seriously, with a smile if I vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief. I listen carefully to the debate. First of all, I will say that I support this law, of course, as I support all the others that we have tabled and, above all, it is important that the measures are put in the package and I think it is important to discuss this. I am aware, however, of the statements made by coalition colleagues that there is a need for all our laws to be replaced, that there will be no support for good proposals for new laws on their part. We are absolutely aware of that. However, I will tell my colleague that perseverance is a good quality, and this will also have to be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Likar, you didn't sign up when I asked for an additional application. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. I'm moving to four. Agenda item - First defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Added Value Tax Act, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members requested a general discussion. And I give my word to the proposaler of the Magi Act. To Andre Visiak for further explanation. Here you go, Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm gonna talk a little louder to wake you up. It seems to me that, in fact, everything is now the subject of discussion, rather than the topic for which we are here. Since the last deposit and debate on a similar law, the situation with regard to improving the liquidity position of companies or the situation with regard to the availability of credits for businesses has not improved completely. On the contrary. The situation has worsened. Of course, I don't expect you to trust the opposition. I don't expect you to just follow our instructions. However, I expect you to follow the indications of the economy or economic operators and their associations. Today, in one of the officers, the weeks that are not in favour of the opposition have never been very clearly written a few quotes by the President of the Meh Employers' Association, who speaks very clearly of expecting the Government to take swift and effective measures to improve liquidity, including a faster return of overpaid VAT. The brochures and requirements of the Slovenian craft and other employers' associations contain these requirements. It's not a whim of the opposition. This is a proposal supported and not only supported, which is also assessed by other experts and economists to bring to the Slovenian economy at a time when it is in liquidity problems, when the normal banking activity is not available, at least under favourable conditions, not to make any positive contribution to the improvement of the business position. More. We expected the Government to reject this measure in the past, saying that they would return the VAT paid to companies immediately, now and more quickly, in seven days, so that it would, of course, serve with other instruments that would ensure the same. If, in this period since you rejected the latter, the government had put the financial system in place, released the credit crunch, and the banks would service the companies with all possible credits under the same conditions as they were about one and a half years ago, this proposal would not be on the table because it would not be necessary. This will obviously move the liquidity problems of companies into the solvency problem and we know where we are. This measure seems to me to be a very important stone in the puzzle of problem-solving. However, this proposal is not alone in this amendment to the law. In this amendment to the law, we also propose that a drastic threshold be raised for companies to pay VAT after the so-called paid realization. Therefore, when they receive the payment, they also separate the value added tax from the payment. This is in particular an important measure for small and medium-sized enterprises, which in these times of crisis are faced with the payment indiscipline of all those involved in their business process, in particular their customers of products and products. In particular, at the end of these chains there are small companies that suffer on their shoulders the full burden of non-discipline of payments and the extension of the payment deadlines of those above them. Even though they did well to have a job, there were no objections to their services. We therefore propose that they also pay the tax when they receive the payment and not when they issue the invoices. This is a very important response to the economic segment during the crisis. And the third proposal is to introduce a lower value added tax rate for all those sectors where this is permitted in accordance with European Union rules. This would also make certain services cheaper, since of course the tax would be reduced. This would also have an important impact on the standard of living of people who use these services because they would be cheaper. Finally, this would also help to bring about a slightly smaller grey economy. In fact, if there is a service, such as hairdressing, which is cheaper, there is less ambition to do it in black. The proposals are aimed at decommissioning and assisting the economy with their own money, not with tax money.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. The word is from Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Member Jožet Tank submitted in the National Assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Additional Value Tax Act with the aim of improving the liquidity of the Slovenian economy. To this end, the group of Members and Members proposes a reduction in the time limit for the refund of the value added tax in cases where the taxable person on the basis of the VAT bill shows a claim to the State from 60 to 7 days and that the taxable person who does not receive the VAT surplus within the prescribed period shall be subject to a late interest rate fixed by law governing the tax procedure from the first day following the date of 7 days from the submission of the VAT bill. Furthermore, the Group of Members and Members proposes to raise the threshold for taxable transport to which a taxable person can charge and pay VAT after a paid realization of EUR 208.000 to a maximum of EUR 7 million 300,000. As a third measure, the Group of Members and Members proposes the introduction of a lower VAT rate for smaller repairs of bicycles, shoes, leather products and clothing and household clothes for domestic protection and hairdressing services. The government has examined the solutions proposed, but it does not support the solutions proposed for the following reasons. The government considers that the proposal to reduce the deadline to 7 days is not acceptable, as time would be substantially reduced to control the value added tax accounts, particularly the control of the most risky taxpayers involved in tax wheel fraud and the time for actual implementation of VAT payments. As a result, the reduction in the VAT refund deadline would also have an impact on liquidity in the year-on-year government revenue outage and an increase in the budget deficit for the year in the amount of two months' VAT refund, which is around EUR 300 million in 2008 according to the average monthly amount of returns. In terms of risk in the control and in terms of the impact on the liquidity of the budget and the single treasury account, the government has concluded that the shortest possible repayment period is 21 days. At its meeting on 21 April 2009, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, adopted a reduction in the VAT refund deadline of 60 or 30 days, which is shorter for exporters, to 21 days. However, it is already provided in the law in force that a taxable person who does not receive an excess within the prescribed time limit is subject to a late interest rate fixed by a law governing the tax procedure from the first day following the expiry of 21 days or the payment of VAT. The measure will apply to value added tax accounts relating to tax periods after 31 December 2009. Thus, at the time of the imposition of the measure due to a faster VAT return on ongoing liquidity provision, some 150 million euro of additional debt will have to be provided. Furthermore, the Government considers that the proposal to increase the threshold for the application of the VAT accounting system after a paid realization of EUR 208.000 to EUR 7 million 300,000 is not acceptable. The specific post-paid implementation arrangement is based on the options offered to Member States by the VAT Directive, which allows Member States to provide for certain transactions for certain taxable persons that the VAT accounting obligation arises no later than at the time of payment. Slovenia has decided to introduce this scheme for taxable persons whose annual turnover does not exceed EUR 208,000. When calculating the value added tax paid to realize it is a special measure derogating from the general provisions of the value added tax directive and therefore Member States wishing to use it must obtain the consent of other Member States. Slovenia obtained this consent by a decision of the Council, namely, a derogation from Slovenia is allowed until 31 December 2009. Slovenia has already requested the competent authorities of the European Commission to extend the authorisation or to apply the special VAT accounting regime after the paid realization. At the current threshold of EUR 208 000, according to 2008 figures, almost 74% of all VAT-registered taxpayers could theoretically use special arrangements after the paid implementation. When the threshold is raised to EUR 7 million 300, 97% of all debtors could use a special post-paid arrangement. Since the measure must target only certain transactions or certain taxpayers, the Government considers that the proposal to raise the threshold to EUR 7 million is not acceptable. Furthermore, the government does not support the proposed extension of the volume of goods and services taxed at a minimum rate of 8.5 VAT, since it considers that the application of a lower rate to smaller repairs of bicycles, shoes, leather products, clothing and household chores, domestic protection and hairdressing services would not have a significant impact on improving economic efficiency, nor on prices, and would have worsened the public financial results. However, there should be an assessment of where to obtain replacement resources. Your Honor! It takes into account the above-mentioned starting points, the Government of the proposed solutions of the Group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate]] Jozet Tank, he doesn't support it, and he doesn't think that the law is suitable for further consideration. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u199	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the parliamentary groups. The word shall be given by Lojze Posedel on behalf of the Zares Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Members, we will not really support this proposal to amend the value added tax law, because it is once again a welcome proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party, which, with these proposals, wishes to make a welcome appearance in those who already have enough of their problems in the course of their regular operations, and much more so in these times of crisis. Everyone would like to shorten time, and that is also what the Government has done by adopting a change of law to shorten the time to pay back excessively overpaid taxes within reasonable limits. It is likely that the reduction of 60 to 7 days is not feasible, the arguments have been made very clearly several times, but apparently the applicant does not want to hear them or does not want to hear them. Similarly, everyone would like to raise the threshold for tax transport so that virtually everyone can work in the way that they want, but there are many arguments. The Minister himself said that the European directives and regulations in this area also prevent such a drastic increase from €208 000 to €7 million. And finally on those small repairs, on small activities - who wouldn't want these services to be lower because of the reduction in the tax rate. And all of these arguments, which the Minister of Finance has been repeating all day today, the motioners do not want to hear. They do not want to hear them for a simple reason, because by repeating how they want to facilitate the position of individuals in this country, they want to show that the Government currently in power does not want to listen to the voice of the economy, the voice of entrepreneurs. We are really surprised that this voice was heard in the Slovenian Democratic Party just after the loss of the election. We are really surprised that these proposals did not come in much sooner than they are now in this mandate. When my predecessor, Mr Vizjak, was an economic minister when he had a majority in the National Assembly, I am convinced that he would have simply passed such a law and could have been reduced from 60 days to 7 days for the refund of overpaid VAT, they could have already reduced the tax rate for smaller services and could have raised the threshold of taxable transport by then. We are therefore convinced that such investment is only about popular populism, not a genuine desire for help. Not only today, which will keep both ministers and government representatives here all day long, but also all the time spent on all meetings of the home committees, where, instead of ministers and co-workers working on the ground or in the cabinets, they survive listening to good proposals that are all but good and useful. Therefore, in the light of all the circumstances presented by the Minister-designate, we cannot really support the amendment of the value added tax law in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The word is given by Willi Rezman on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The proposals of this law are coming back in waves. It is true that they refuse in waves, but there are some differences in thinking about this bill rather than in some others who were previously under consideration. The introduction to this proposal is the same as the others, but it now offers more initiatives than it has in the past. DeSUS has so far supported the Government's proposal for an opinion, and this will also be the way, but it is not the government's support for this proposal. I would like to point out, however, that this law is about a different philosophy than those laws that required lowering tax burdens, because this is actually about the question of who would be easier to bear the burden of liquidity: whether the economy or the state. I personally think that this burden should be redistributed differently than it is decided by the law that is now in force. The history of rejection of this bill went so far that it was first rejected due to that very short seven-day deadline. However, remember, later, an amendment of 30 days was acceptable for the main part of the committee, which was the working body of the mother, and a 21-day deadline was later acceptable for the Government. I am sure that the current applicants would easily agree on this 21-day deadline if, of course, this was implemented immediately after the adoption of this law. So if it hadn't been moved. Like a one-off pension allowance for the following year, for example. I don't know what it's gonna be like when we start in January next year, because today we postpone or at least promise these ratings for January 2010. The rejection was then called a refusal due to an excessive deficit. At that time, we also referred to 3% of Maastricht's demand. Now, apart from the mists, there is nothing left, and so this is no longer an appropriate argument. The argument remains, therefore, this liquidity problem, which we are aware of, but we do have different estimates here about who this burden of liquidity is easier or illiquid. Some feel that this burden should be placed on their shoulders or that the country could take over on its own. If we had succeeded with this proposal by the time it was proposed, we would have been breathing completely normally today. There wouldn't be a problem anymore. That would have worked for months. The problems that would arise would have been graduated, and I am sure that there would be no tragedy for the country to sustain, and the budget as well, and the economy would have breathed a little easier. Of course, it can also be counted that this measure would be substituted with some others, which would also be acceptable, although they are not entirely adequate. There would also be, for some in the ministerial assembly, acceptable measures, which are also proposed. In particular, this principle of paid realization and increased amount and reduction of payment deadlines. All these measures will return to our debates, in my judgment, and I am sure that one day they will also get enough support to be voted on. They are needed, we are now different in our assessment whether the situation we are in allows this to happen or not. The majority of support to the government's position that the law is not suitable for further consideration will be given to the DeSUS Group and is not 100%.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will try again to be very specific in the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act. We have the content of the law, which is important. Again, I warn you, not politics, content! We shorten the time of the overpayment of VAT; we are applying the bill immediately and the third emphasis that needs to be said is that it is not state money, but it is the money of the people who belong to it. And we need to understand that, let's be honest and one and the other. Which bothers me in this content, which I read last, by the government. Don't mind me, I'm just thinking human. The Government is right, on the one hand, to say that the proposal is not acceptable, as it is significantly shorter to control VAT accounts, and in particular to control the most risky, I warn the most risky taxpayers who participate in tax wheel fraud. That's what the government wrote down. I agree. But, on the other hand, I'm going to say the number, don't insult me, because I don't know them, because I'm not an expert, 60%, 70% of honest entrepreneurs who want to get the VAT paid back as soon as possible, waited 60 days just because we, because this government, the former, the present, are not capable of controlling fraud. We know that fraud and we also have institutions, and it is not the Government's fault to make it clear that we have other institutions to monitor, from the Ministry of Internal Affairs forward, we have audits. Here the government has no fault, but because of the envisaged frauds we will say that we cannot return the overpaid VAT to those who are honest, then we are not fair. They have won fraud, we have control over fraud, this control prevents a faster refund of VAT. That's a little funny. Right now, I don't know, 5%, 10% of the lumps, by the way, beat 70% or 60% of the fair people. And that's not right. In the Slovenian National Party, we say that in this state it would be good and proper to reimburse people with VAT as soon as possible if they were to harmonise the law immediately, but not only 1.1.2010, and that once we acknowledge that it is the money of the people who have paid it back. I hope we all have a common goal: to help these people. But to read it now, perhaps this is an unfortunate diction, once again, I point out on purpose that fraud is not acceptable to this time frame, then we have given in to fraud, to crooks, to villains, to thieves, to thieves, whatever you want. Instead of dealing with them with the Ministry of the Interior, the audit services, I don't know who else can control it, in the law itself we say, "Oh. K. It is better that he who is honest, who works honestly, who wants his money back as soon as possible, that he can turn it, waits only for us to control the maggots." That's not gonna work. It may have been condemned to the government in this letter, but we can't accept it. With all due respect, once again, I say that we all want the Slovenians and the Slovenians well. I would accept this dictatorship for 21 days, not 7 days, not 21 days, because we've already been "dealing" like in the African market, I'll say again, I accept 21 days, it's feasible, but not at the expense of fraud or the expression that we're in no position to do information. Slovenia is the largest and most beautiful country for me and also for my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party, we are able to do everything we want. But we have to want to, not argue, make order. In the Slovenian National Party, we will aim for the law, but I speak only of intent, apolitically, we will support it because it wants good for those who work honestly and want their money back as soon as possible so that they can turn this money around. I understand the country can't just take it. And I also understand people who say, "This country, this is not your money, this is our money." And here we need to find a compromise, colleagues and colleagues. It's not a fight. It's a compromise. However, fraud must be immediately closed and deleted from all articles and the explanation of this law. Shut them down, and they must never be here again. We will support the proposal in good faith.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Perseverance is a beautiful beauty. This time we have been faced with the same or at least similar amendment of the law for the fourth time, and I can slowly question this upper river. However, if we focus on the content of the proposed solution, it is important and necessary. We have already supported the reduction of the deadline for reimbursement of value-added tax three times, on just so many occasions, honourable coalition Members, you have rejected or evaluated it. We continue to support this solution and do not understand the Government's delay in repaying the debtors' money, which is in fact theirs. We will also fully support the remaining solutions to this bill as well as the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Renata Brunskole has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u208	Nicely greeted. The reduction of payment deadlines makes sense, but not at the expense of reducing tax control, as this would result in less detection of tax wheel fraud. In the event of a reduction in the repayment period from 60 or 30 days to 7 days, applications would be practically confirmed without control, as such a radical reduction in the repayment period would significantly shorten the time to control VAT accounts. In view of the experience of the tax administration in a maximum of six working days, it is not possible to monitor all the accounts that are excluded or labelled as conditional by software support. The proposed measure would also result in a significant loss of resources for the state budget, which means that the government would run out of resources to provide some important measures to reduce the impact of the financial crisis. For this reason, we agree that the proposed law rejects the Government from examining the reduction of payment deadlines in a way that will not result in a reduction of tax control and will not result in a greater loss of resources for the state budget. A reduction in the repayment period from 60 and from 30 to seven days would also mean a significant liquidity shortfall in public financial revenues in 2009. In particular, in the month following the change, funds should be made available for VAT refund a month earlier. The proposed changes would reduce VAT revenue by around €338 million and 0.8% of gross social product based on 2008 data. This means that, due to the proposed measure, funds should be cut off somewhere. Did the proposer consider where the funds would be taken? Probably not, because the proposed reduction of deadlines for seven days would reduce VAT revenues. In doing so, let us recall that the Government has already ensured, by amending the Tax Procedure Act, a current reduction in the burden on legal persons by determining the amount of the tax on the income of legal persons for 2009, that the tax rate that will apply in 2009 and not the rate of tax from the previous year, which is the regulation in force, can be taken into account. In this way, the amount of tax advances paid will be closer to the amount of tax to be paid in 2010 on the basis of tax accounts. The proposed measure will liquidate the economy in a liquidity way and, on the basis of corporate income tax calculations, the economy will be burdened by liquidity by around EUR 50 million per year. Since it is necessary to use money and funds rationally to target measures to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis and because the law would exacerbate control of taxpayers, the Social Democrats Group will support the conclusion that amendments to the value added tax law are not suitable for further consideration. The law also proposes a solution to the increase in the threshold for taxable traffic, to which a taxable person can charge and pay VAT after a paid realization of EUR 208 000 to EUR 7 million. In 2008, 72,215 taxpayers could use the paid realization and only 1071 debtors would use the arrangement, representing 1.48% of the theoretically eligible. The amount of deferred entry VAT was €140.985 for those using special arrangements after the paid implementation at the end of 2007 and €135,738 at the end of 2008. With regard to the increase in the VAT paid threshold, let me mention that the proposal by the Commission relating to the amendment of the VAT Directive relating to the rules on invoicing provides for a derogation from the general rules relating to the occurrence of VAT deductible rights in the application of a specific arrangement after a paid implementation for all Member States. The regulation should be available to all micro-enterprises whose annual turnover does not exceed EUR 2 million, as defined in the Commission's recommendation on the definition of micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises. The debate on this proposal has already begun in the world. With regard to the proposed threshold of EUR 2 million, Member States' preliminary views are that the threshold is too high. According to data for 2008, around 73.9 per cent of all taxpayers registered for VAT may apply special VAT accounting arrangements of EUR 208 thousand at a certain threshold and 93.6 per cent of all taxpayers are subject to an increase in the threshold of EUR 7 million and 96.5 per cent of all taxpayers, which would mean a significant deviation from the general VAT system, after which VAT is charged after an invoiced realization. Therefore, the Social Democrats' Group does not support this proposal. With regard to the lower VAT rates, it should be noted that the previous government may have missed the opportunity to request a lower VAT rate, including services for which a lower VAT rate is proposed, which should therefore be notified to the Commission by 31 March 2006. Slovenia is based on the decision of the Government of 30. 3. In fact, 2006 demanded only a reduction in VAT in respect of the application of a lower VAT rate on the services of renovation and repair of private dwellings. Given the deadline for Member States to decide on the application of a lower VAT rate, the proposal in this part is therefore not justified. In addition, certain amendments to the VAT Directive, including the deletion of Article 106 referred to in the SDS, have been confirmed at the EU level in relation to the application of lower VAT rates. Furthermore, the Group of Social Democrats considers that, by extending the scope of the lower VAT rates for those categories, it is not possible to achieve the greater economic efficiency or objectives that the proposed solution seeks to achieve and that the applicant argues in the explanation of his proposal. The reduction in VAT does not necessarily mean a reduction in the prices of goods or services. Given that the economic impact of the use of a lower VAT rate depends on the characteristics of each sector, the decision to apply a lower VAT rate should be accompanied by a preliminary analysis of the economic impact. It should also be borne in mind that the reduction in VAT financial revenues affects the non-balance of individual duties or the need to increase other sources of revenue intended to provide the needs of budgetary consumers. The experience of Great Britain in reducing VAT has also shown that the proposed measure is ineffective to achieve the promotion of private consumption. In view of all the above, the proposed law is not suitable for further consideration. The Group of Social Democrats will vote accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by Rado Likar on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u210	Thanks again for saying that. Greetings to all present! The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposal for a new law. Why? Because it brings solutions to a given situation where businesses need money bloodyly when they face illiquidity. Because in the Slovenian Democratic Party we want to look for positive solutions and positive proposals that will have the best solution, this is the liquidity of the Slovenian economy, especially the exporters or investors, and this is the most important issue of this amendment to the value added tax law. From this point of view, we propose and support the Slovenian Democratic Party to shorten the VAT refund deadline to 7 days. Both in the world and in us, the crisis creates a lot of mistrust between financial institutions, interbank lending, on which Slovenian banks are also dependent, has virtually stopped. The crediting of the economy has decreased considerably, and this is happening under substantially sharper and worse conditions. Due to the reduced flow of liquid assets in the economy, companies are forced to extend payment deadlines or are no longer able to pay at all and are no longer able to settle their obligations. All of this leads to a vicious circle of illiquidity. It is also appropriate and welcome to propose an increase in the taxable traffic threshold to which a taxable person can charge and pay VAT after a paid realization from the EUR 208 000 currently in force to EUR 7 million 300 000. This would have a beneficial effect on the small companies most at risk in these circumstances. Due to their smallness, they are often in a subordinate position in their negotiating venues on the payment deadlines for their services. We also fully support the new law because the economy needs money to solve the crisis. And if in this case he gets only what was paid to the State too much, then he is even more entitled to it. This measure, which would give businesses their money in a transaction account earlier, is more favourable for economic operators than to rent short-term liquid assets at a bank which is still difficult to obtain at the top of everything, as they will be paid back their money, which is being spent by the state for them for some time. We are also in favour of bringing the amendment into force immediately, not just 1. 1. 2010, as this would significantly mitigate the consequences of the crisis, the economy would remain in better shape, maintain investment activity and reduce the decline in industrial production. I don't think there's anyone among us who would disagree. Some of you will have concerns only from a public financial point of view. In our view, it is necessary to weigh between liquid money in the economy and liquid money in the budget. You have already decided once to save the budget at the expense of the economy, at the expense of those assets that are not from the State, but only have to be returned more quickly to those that have been overpaid. It's the economy. This measure is welcomed by all those involved. This measure is also in line with the recommendations of the tax profession, because if the State has collected too much tax, it must also repay it as soon as possible and not prevent those who actually provide funds for public finances, that is the economy. It's over. We prepared a proposal for a new VAT law in the SDS mainly from concerns about the situation in which the Slovenian financial system is located. And if we support this law by a majority, it will be a clear signal to citizens and citizens that the country is willing to listen to them and help them to do so. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will, as we say, support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u211	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word is Willy Rezman. [[He's quitting.]] The word is "Silven Tiny."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Improving the liquidity of the economy, which is deteriorating as a result of the global financial crisis, must be the government's priority and the aim of the law. The shortening of the period of reimbursement of the value-added tax is only one of the segments of the aid to the economy to get their money back early in order to be able to invest in the necessary investments, including wages, since in most cases, as the economists say, they have to wait for a longer period of start-up of the liquidity of companies. It is unfair that the state sees itself and at the same time forgets that only the state treasury is dependent on companies that cash this and give bread to many citizens of Slovenia. The poor lending conditions of the economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, make the situation worse. It is imperative to correct payment deadlines and to regulate payment discipline in such a way that it does not burden the functioning of companies. Companies, as well as the country, are dependent on short-term financial inflows, as only such behaviour increases competitiveness and stable employment. I believe that it is not in the country's interest to forgive workers from the real sector, so I am counting on it to listen to the economy in improving the conditions for normal business. We are also facing a problem in the economy when someone who is in liquidity difficulties asks for the refund of VAT paid. Of course, he doesn't ask for a reason, but he gets an immediate financial inspection into the company. As you know, no one wants inspectors, so such actions are sooner than right and more encouraging for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u214	This is one of the laws which is in this parliamentary procedure, if I am not mistaken, for the third time. In fact, this law has led to the fact that the opposition's initiative has come to bear fruit, that the Government and all those involved in this matter are aware of the coalition's serious problems, that it is a problem, that it is possible to do things that contribute to some of the improvements in the liquidity situation, namely the business situation. However, the system, this morning Minister Gaspari also spoke about this, a system that is actually designed so that with rapid intervention, radical intervention can actually make him disabled and we can make it ineffective and can also have very serious consequences for the country. I did not agree with you that the state is an absolute egotist and that bureaucracy, where we ultimately belong, directs some kind of flexible policy on the part of the State to employers and those who produce those VAT payments, of course if they create the right income and if they have the option at all. The situation in which we are now may, from what can be read in the views of the Government, suggest that certain exceptions and certain things are being done, but this does not require us to go into a radical change of law at this time. I believe that you will not reinstate this law tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, if it does not receive support today, but we will try in this six-month period to settle the expenditure side and all those things that need to be adjusted also in terms of control, control and the whole process, so that it will be settled within half a year and that we will be with 1. 1. In the coming year, we came up with the proposed solution that we adopted a month ago, two. It is a matter of trust, however, it is necessary to believe that the Government has things under control, that it knows how public finances work sustainable, how it works in such a way that on the income side it does not overburden those we pay in this cash register, and on the other hand that this flow will run normally. There are also some exceptions that can be made, and I believe that companies also use them when it comes to a different way, not just after an invoiced realization. That is why I must say that I supported the law at the time and also convinced my colleagues that we should go in the direction that the opposition has proposed. I was disappointed with that deadline, and the magnetograms exist because on the other hand I also believed that those arguments given by the Government were acceptable and must be taken into account if we do not want to make another and an irresistible situation entirely. I therefore hope that, as it is said, if the law is not supported today, it will come back to the procedure tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Visjak has the floor as a proposaler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I understood when the coalition partially summarized the proposal and also later voted on the opposition's proposal or SDS to shorten the repayment deadlines of the overpaid VAT as a partial measure, which will only be part of solving this story, the stories of the illiquidity of the Slovenian economy. The Slovenian economy has been intensive in investment and economic activities over the past period, and it has leased large amounts of credit. For the first time because they were cheap, secondly because they were high economic growth. This economic activity was extremely high. And in a moment, there was a credit crunch, no new loans available. And that's why we've been looking for solutions to how to provide liquid assets to businesses. And one of the measures is to get the overpaid tax back early. This is a crisis measure. This can be a measure that can last even then, but in times of crisis it seems very appropriate for me to introduce, very reasonably, because it solves part of the problem. When we saw the partial implementation of our proposal, we expected that another proposal would be added to this proposal to improve liquidity. For example, the release of a credit crunch. The Minister of Finance, present here, has said two months ago that the credit crunch is failing. Economists estimate that the credit crunch is still tightening. Economists, not the opposition. We do not rent economic credits because we are sitting here in this assembly and we must not deal with incompatibilities with any economic activity and listen to people working in the real sector working in the economy. And they tell us differently than we hear arguments here. For example, Mr Meh, who is president of the Association of Employers of Slovenia, says, literally, I quote: "We have repeatedly proposed that the government take measures that will quickly and effectively improve liquidity. It is a matter of extending the deadline for the payment of contributions and taxes up to 30 days, for a faster refund of overpaid VAT" and so on. The views of other congregations are similar. I can also quote the requirements of Slovenian craftsmanship and so on. However, for God's sake, don't think that this is some whim of the opposition that you say has fallen to fertile ground. Perhaps this soil is fertile but frozen. Nothing goes through. Hard, frozen ground. And once again, it's not our wish that we think it would be good to take it into account, we repeat it because nothing fundamental or essential is going to happen here, which would help the economy. These quotes I read aren't from February this year, they're from today's newspaper, it's out today. I would therefore like to point out that this measure, although it has already been repeated three times, is still very current today and even now. We have added others to this measure. It is very important to raise this threshold for treatment, that is to say the VAT payment after the so-called paid realization that that entrepreneur pays the tax only when he receives the payment for the work done, not when he issues the invoice, but when he receives the payment for that account. I agree with the Minister for Development that this is an exception which is not a rule in the philosophy of value added tax. I fully agree here. And the rule is usually for stable times. Now, however, there are exceptional times of crisis and therefore we need to go across the street and, with exceptions, where this is best suited to the economy or even makes it possible to survive. Take examples where, for example, a company, I don't know, a craftsman or a supplier of certain products, works for a larger chain, works quality, works well, works products with high added value even, or works very good services, can even be an engineer, I can't know what it is. However, there are some economic operators in some chain of systems. And this system either operates with the state, even this. Of course, the state is paying later, extending the payment deadlines because it also has problems with the liquidity of the state budget, because it has fewer taxes due to slow economic growth. So the first one in the chain gets a suspended payment, this suspended payment transfers to the second, this transfer to the third and the one that issues the invoice in March has to pay from this invoice tax, gets paid for his work, I don't know, there in six months. Even in one hundred and eighty days there are payment deadlines. But the tax had to be taken away immediately. And that is why we propose that the tax be paid when he also receives payment for the work he has done. This helps the company survive. Not only do we somehow give him some privilege, but we make it possible for him to survive. This is also an integral part of this proposal. For God's sake, I would really suggest that you go into the real world a little bit, that you go among entrepreneurs, that they tell you what they need and what they expect and what problems they are dealing with today. We have prepared these proposals not by taking, for example, the requirements of the Slovenian craft or the White Paper of the Chamber of Commerce, changing the title page and sending it. We've taken measures from everywhere. It is true that these were the basics, these requirements, the association of the economy was the basis for these measures. And these two, which I have now listed - the refund of overpaid VAT earlier and the raising of the tax threshold after paid realization are an extremely important common denominator of a number of requirements. Believe that these are suggestions that make it possible for many to survive that are not above standard. And one more thing, they don't actually cost any taxpayer money. This guy pays his taxes anyway. He pays when he gets the money when we talk about a paid realization. But when we talk about a faster payment, he gets his tax back because he overpaid it. That's his money. This is just in some liquidity sense a problem. There are a lot of mayors here who have been implementing various budgets. And we know that there is no need to delete any investment in order to ensure this previous payment. Yes, because we are going to budget years to do everything with other mechanisms, with some different dynamics of payments over the years. All of this can be done - if it's all will, wish. I really appreciate that you will have to go to the real world more among entrepreneurs to find out how important these measures are.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u218	Thank you very much. This is the third or fourth time we have talked about it. I would just like to ask you a question: Are the resources from the financial year with which this measure will be financed? They're not supposed to. And if not foreseen, the measure is not credible. About the tax wheel, about the cheats. Yeah, we can follow logic so we can simply ignore the existence of fraud. Let's just say, "Dear entrepreneur, pay as much as you want, as much as you think it's right, we believe you, but for those pair of cheaters it is." That's not the way it works. With regard to the reduction in value added tax for the services you provide: minor repairs of bicycles, shoes, clothing and so on. Why did the government, when it had time in 2006, not ask for EU permission to do so? I'll probably get an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u220	I don't know why we'd be providing substitute funding for something that's not from the state. We're talking overpaying taxes. The company paid too much tax to the state. That's what the reckoning showed. And now we're talking about having to give it back to him. It's not state money. That's not budget money. This is the money of the company which must be recovered as soon as possible, which is also in line with the tax profession. I don't know what you're dreaming about, where we can provide replacement resources for something we can return. This is thinking, which obviously then also leads to negative views, to these proposals because it puts itself in a completely different position. It's true, as I said, in a liquidity sense, the problem. But this problem is with proper dynamics, and entering projects and paying projects to settle. This is what anyone who has ever implemented a budget knows. That can be done. And that's only a problem for a year when this thing is being compensated. And once again, it can be arranged, I don't know, I can even draw you a way to do it. That's one thing. Secondly, I think that these proposals, once again, are not repeated because we would not have other ideas, but because nothing has been done to solve this problem that this proposal solves. That's why we're proposing and trying to finally be at least a little bit heard.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u221	The replica, Dr. Luke Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u222	Where I dream was said. Sam said that liquidity is a problem. It represents a number to be replaced or taken from somewhere. Pika. It's a written attitude that we can't handle. The numbers should be exact. Of course, if we hadn't spent our resources differently, we would have spent millions and millions of euros to make [[...]] [[Warning for the end of the debate.]] We'd be building police buildings past the law, and so on, we'd have some money. [[...]] But given that the money was done in the way that we wanted it to be, we now have a problem. It's just not going to work this year 'cause there's no money. My boys, it's a crisis!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Just a moment, Mr. Visac. I can't put a replica on the replica. I'll give you my word, but first, the Secretary of State called. Franz the Cross, then you will be. I think it's perfectly normal. You can answer Dr. Križanič, Minister, and then you can be the proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u224	Thank you very much. A respected choir! The debate repeats itself several times. What's this all about? Why did we or did you adopt a law that will enter into force on 1 January of the following year with a 21-day period of repayment? On 1 January the following year, because in this case it is possible to transfer this deficit resulting from the accelerated repayment to the following year and to reduce the pressure on the deficit this year. This effect is not only liquidity. As the principle of measuring deficits, it goes also to this balance sheet and to the deficit. Another time. Why 21 days? 21 days to refresh your memory because we have an extremely outdated tax administration information system. Based on MS Dos, in the previous reference and in the government there was an attempt to replace it in order to introduce a new one. An invitation to tender was made. The invitation to tender was written on the skin of one tenderer and has been withdrawn and we are now implementing a new invitation to tender. I hope it works. When the new infrastructure is established, I think that next year, tested also, they must run parallel for a while, then we can take the next step and actually get closer to this goal that we have ahead of us. If this objective were actually so important, it could have been more easily achieved in the previous period, when there was no such pressure on public finances, when there was not a billion 200 shifts, which had already been made due to reckless moves in the previous period, let alone these measures, which are currently taking place. So now there is no easy space here and in the following year this space will have to be looked for and then the next step will follow until these seven. I think the goal is actually beautiful, but it's not so feasible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak as a proponent. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u226	I think the funds are also in the existing budget for this measure. [[...]] [[It's a bench ad.]] Yes, and I think that because some measures are overrated, they are simply overestimated in the current budget adopted by the budget on the basis of the old balance. [[...]] For example, one measure which has also been confirmed by numbers to be overestimated. This is full-time subsidisation, for example. A measure, including money, which is intended to pay investors investment in a public telecommunications network and so on. The source to return the money to the economy, of course, should be a priority. And this is some horizontal measure that hits a number of businesses and helps them and is simple. It's very simple. I can't understand and insist on the argument that there is a potential fraud - that is why we have the headquarters, a number of tax inspectors - to pay the entire economy, including the export and also the one that is entitled to the refund. Everyone has to pay for it because you're afraid there's gonna be a scoundrel here and there because of a flawed system. We have already proposed several times that in case of suspicion, only in case of suspicion may this overpayment not be made. Some other countries have these. And with respect to the fact that other countries can afford it, in international comparison, what other countries have to pay or repay, of course I find it difficult to agree that this could be a serious reason. That's one excuse. I think that the key reason why the Minister of Finance can't find the money for this is that he can't find the money from the companies that are lying in the state treasury or should be lying there because he's used it for other purposes or he's using it for other purposes and he's returning it to the economy by delay. That's the only result. And it is true that this measure could have been implemented earlier. However, at a time when companies had available cheap, extremely cheap money from banks, for any purpose, and had not encountered liquidity problems, this was a minor problem, the problem was zero. Today, when there is a credit crunch, when there are no liquid assets, when there is no money for current business, but only for investments, this measure is still important and much needed by the company. Now, something about this so-called credit crunch, which is very much linked to this measure. In fact, I hear that the problem of this guarantee scheme law, which is supposed to release this credit crunch, is also the fact that the banks do not wish to enter it unless they are also allowed to reprogram Taiwanese loans with State guarantees. It's information that's in the air, and I believe it's true. Banks want to save themselves with taxpayers' money, and that's what money is for. But the money that they would use to solve everyday economic hardships is gone. And I would like to ask, Minister, whether it is true that the guarantee scheme law cannot be brought to life in practice because the banks are resisting because they do not agree to prevent reprogramming or reprogramming guarantees to loans offered by both the guarantee and the state, i.e. loans intended to take over companies that have nothing to do with the basic idea of the guarantee scheme. The government and Parliament wanted a guarantee scheme, that is to say, State guarantees for loans to companies that face business problems that need money to create, to invest, to do business, and not nearly to those companies that need it for any acquisition or capital investment. Well, let's keep it company-side, and let's keep it management-side. And now we have the resistance of state banks to a country that wants to solve the problem. And this is tolerated and strange provisions are proposed, such as this provision, or not tomorrow, next week, in Parliament's plenary session. Your Honor, this is bad! Let's really figure out what this country's problems are. The problems of this country are not Taiwanese loan reprograms. The problem of this country is the liquidity of the real sector, the liquidity of enterprises, small, medium-sized enterprises and the faster return of overpaid VAT actually solves this problem effectively, easily. But it is true that it requires some involvement of the government and the Ministry of Finance in this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u228	I have to say that the Minister of Finance has come up with some ideas for me today because he's here alone representing the government. Apparently, one part of the ministerial team has no time and is running an electoral campaign for the European Parliament, one part of it is broadcasting a Falcon, and one part is apparently already on its way to warmer, more friendly places. We all agree, however, that the problem in the economy is currently extremely high in liquidity, a credit crunch. We all agree, and we all agree that the immediate implementation of this law would significantly improve this liquidity. Even the Government, which has approved this law at one stage, agrees with this, but has postponed its application to 1. 1. 2010 when this law is no longer needed. Then we'll swim out of it, or we'll all sink because more than half the companies are going to crash. Every day some of the companies go bankrupt also due to the problem of inequity. And the adoption of an immediate VAT return would make money, which is theirs, significantly facilitate their operating conditions. Today we received two works from the government. One is an opinion on the measures we have proposed, and the other is a review of the implementation of anti-crisis measures. And in this law, look at the fraction, the opinion on this same measure is that it is not ok. In this review, what the Government has done so far, the government boasts at point 12 that it has accepted this. Really interesting, indeed, it will only be effective when it comes to 1. 1. 2010, commend the Government, among other things, on what has already been adopted in the previous term - but it doesn't matter! So much for consistency and whether we are serious about these matters or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u229	Thank you very much. The word Ivan Grill. Rudolf Petan, Franz Jursha, is not here. Daniel Krivec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u230	Thank you for saying that again. When we listen to this debate, it happens all the time that all of our requests for individual parts of this package and these laws to be adopted fall to infertile ground. However, when we look at the responses in the media and on the websites, it is interesting and I will quote a public call that our colleagues from the party really made to both the government and the ministries. This public call speaks for ownership of state property, and I quote: "The competent ministries are still acting incomprehensible and irresponsible to state property." This public call was written 21. 5. and is a website. Interestingly, at the end of this, I quote again: "It is high time that the President of the Government stops only talking about responsibility, but that the Government finally assumes responsibility for the state's assets and the fate of jobs in these and other companies where the state has a share.".. End of quote. This is the appeal of the parties in the coalition one day before this debate. And you keep saying that everything is in the best order, that the state will take care of the jobs, that it will change the flow through its actions. But when we read your notes on the web pages, you talk about the appeals that we are also addressing to the same ministries, the same government, the same president, to finally take action and take the measures that will be taken. We all talk about this, you all agree that they are necessary, but we do not agree on when they are needed. We say we should have been accepted yesterday, and you're leaving this to some future. And that's the only problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u231	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u232	Thank you for your word. Many things could have been done by the previous government, you keep telling us. But you'll probably remember that at the time, the tax administration was even worse than it was today. Today, many things have been arranged, and it would probably be easier to do what they would have been told to do if they wanted to. And if you'd thought of me the way you think today, you would never have abolished the tax on paid wages. We took it gradually, in 2005 we made that decision and with 1. 1. 2006 this has started and we have not done this in the last year. True, we insist, and it seems right to insist, for we have apparently convinced you once that you have confirmed the value added tax and reduced payment hands, but only by 1. 1. 2010 It is ironic, therefore, not to say ridiculously to include this in the review of the implementation of anti-crisis measures. If it works, it won't be until the second year of March, say. It's so funny that it's included here. Moreover, it would be very fair for the Government to write something other than "in the legislative field, either on a proposal from the Government or on the basis of legislative proposals..." Which ones? It's like they fell out of the sky. So, of course, I'm going to support the law the way we made it. [[...]] [[Warning for the end of the debate.]] And if we had a serious intention to help the economy, so would you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Does he want a word with the government's representative? If he doesn't want the word "proposer" yet? [[...]] Mag. Andrej Vizjak? If you want to, of course. He doesn't want to. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No, no. [[...]] I said if he wanted to. She didn't force it. So you don't have to, mag. A visor. So let's move on. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? He doesn't want to. I'm guessing he doesn't want to. That is why I conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item - First of all, a proposal for a law on the amendments to the Public Finance Act within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the text to the representative of the bill's proposer, Jozet Tank, for a further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u234	Thank you so much for saying that. Although it has been quite a long time to discuss these measures, I hope that we will not lose our concentration and attention. We have before us a law that costs absolutely nothing, and we have before us a law that is written in this book. Requirements of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship, page 46.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u235	Please, peace in the hall. Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u236	Here the members of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry wrote: "Obligants, it is said that legal persons, independent entrepreneurs, are paid taxes, contributions and other compulsory charges in accordance with the Rules of Accounts and the manner in which the compulsory duties and other public financial revenues are paid to the accounts opened by the Bank of Slovenia. Contributions to a self-employed person are paid in three accounts, for employees in four or five different accounts, and for employees in legal persons in ten accounts. In business practice, this means that a taxable person, such as a self-employed worker, must pay taxes on more than ten different sub-accounts in order to meet their monthly tax obligations. The VAT sub-account, the various sub-accounts for the payment of income, the tax on paid salaries, the contributions of employees and so on. In addition to the above, there are additional sub-accounts for late interest. For each such individual duty, the payment order must be completed and the commission paid to the bank. Compared to their tax liability, these costs are disproportionately high for both micro and small enterprises. In the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, we propose to establish a single transfer for all necessary public funds to the joint account and their distribution by the appropriate key." This requirement of Slovenian craftsmanship for 2008 has been summarised in the amendment of the Public Finance Act, which is now under consideration. This implies exactly what they wrote in the requirements of the Slovenian craft. Given that a number of administrative improvements have been made in the previous mandate in the area of income accounting, including in the area of the presentation of certain reports or the sending of certain reports, and given that a very good system for removing administrative barriers has been established in the previous mandate, we hope that this system is actually being implemented in this mandate. And according to our assessment, there should be no excessive obstacles that this payment system, as provided for in the Public Finance Act, would not be implemented in business practice as well. When I look at the government's report attached to this tax, however, the Government agrees with intent, with the purpose of the law. This is in one sentence, it supports simplification, and then lists a number of reasons why these initiatives, these solutions, these changes, these improvements, they can't, or better said, they don't want to use. We believe that the system of simplifying administrative barriers needs to be continued, we believe that this step, brought by this law, needs to be implemented and that we will allow this simplification and, of course, also the appreciation of all small, micro- and micro-enterprises to transfer all their monthly liabilities by one payment order and thus avoid a large number of remittances, a large number of fees for each transaction carried out. And we also believe that this is a suitable step to establish [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the system, when effectively leaving all these administrative obstacles, obstacles and also removing administrative barriers through this procedure. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u237	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. The word is from Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Dear High Council! Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! The Proposal for a Law on Complementation of the Law on Public Finance at First reading gives the Government the following rebuttal opinion: this proposal to supplement the Law on Public Finance should allow for the single transfer of all public financial benefits to the common account and the distribution of these duties by the appropriate key. While it would be appropriate to simplify the payment of compulsory duties and other public financial revenues, the regulation of this issue does not fall under the Public Finance Act. The reasons for this are as follows. The Public Finance Act explicitly identifies the entities to which it applies, including no liability for payment of compulsory duties and other public financial revenues. The content and areas subject to the regulation of the Public Finance Act are aimed at managing public expenditure and cover the various elements and modalities of financing and financial operations of the State and other public sector operators. The proposed amendment to the Public Finance Act would regulate the content and entities subject to other rules and therefore involve a legal system-wide approach which significantly reduces the transparency of the legal regime. The submitted proposal to supplement the Public Finance Act is not prepared in a basic way to enable it to be implemented, and is even contrary to the principle of transparency in that part which removes the information that enables them to keep their accounts. The allocation of duties according to a certain key is also indeterminate, taking into account the fact that it is from 11,700 sub-accounts of municipalities and about 10,300 others. The legal basis for simplifying the system of payment of taxes and other compulsory duties should therefore provide for a method of payment of compulsory duties and other public financial revenues in a law which also prescribes taxes and other duties. To include the possibility of concluding agreements in relation to the liable’s payment deadlines, the applicable legislation already allows this option when certain conditions are met. A taxable person shall be entitled to decide for himself the priority of payment of individual taxes or compulsory charges according to his liquidity options. For all compulsory duties, determine the same day of maturity in the month, as otherwise there would be prepayments or late payment of interest. To determine the method of recovery or recovery of underpaid or overpaid benefits. It follows from this that those assumptions cannot be contained solely in the regulations of the finance minister. Notwithstanding the above, it is necessary to act in a manner that simplifies the payment of compulsory duties and other public financial revenues. As early as this year, banks are also introducing SEPA payment instruments for domestic payments. The development of payment systems will allow taxpayers to agree on a method of payment with the direct burdens of this SEPAM account. The development of e-VEM, which is a single point of registration of business entities, also requires an appropriate legal basis. However, the development of the relevant systems requires additional budgetary resources and the reorganisation of work. It is therefore appropriate, in accordance with the principles of prudent and cost-effective spending of budgetary resources, to first draw up appropriate professional bases that will also justify the use of budgetary resources. In doing so, it must be borne in mind that the legal basis already allows the debtor to pay multiple duties, which are supervised by one supervisor and which fall due on the same day with one task. Thank you very much. The government, however, rejects this proposal and proposes not to be supported by the High Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u239	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u240	Thank you very much. We move on to the last law, which instead of the professional introduction, has a political manifest on two and a half pages written and is called the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Public Finances. Let me first make a general assessment of the DeSUS Group, which speaks of the good intentions of this proposal and that we support them. However, from the arguments that we have heard and which are recorded, we must find that the implementation of this basic idea has been somewhat inappropriate or unfortunate. If we shorten it because of the entropy of time, which today is terrible, let's just say that we understand the proposal of the proposal by essentially saying that we want to simplify processes, we want to reduce administrative procedures, we want to reduce costs and we want to increase efficiency. And this is also quite indeed written in the requirements of Slovenian craftsmen and entrepreneurs issued in the brochure in 2008, but a brochure of the requirements of Slovenian craftsmen and entrepreneurs in 2009 has already been published. This is due mainly to the fact that entrepreneurs and craftsmen have been correct and have done an analysis in this last brochure, in which they have written about which of their demands has been realized, what is not yet being realized and what is not yet and they are demanding again. This seemed necessary to me mainly because some speakers had previously quoted the Slovenian trade, their representatives and the Chamber of Commerce, and they quoted only one layer, only what they still claim, because it was not yet realized, but they overlooked that much in favour of the economy was also done. The government points out the following: it is necessary to provide other legal bases so that these good intentions can be realized. And if we understand the government's elaboration correctly, then it's simply that these good intentions aren't placed on the right end, they're not in the right law. Or if we simplify it, if people sometimes like salt and sometimes coffee, we can both love it, but when the salt dries into our coffee, it is unacceptable for us. In short, it's a little simplified, but I think we can understand the point of our rejection. We do not reject good intentions and good suggestions. However, it is unlikely that it is as is now proposed and now we can, at least in part within one supervisor, rationalise these procedures and reduce administrative obstacles and also costs. We are therefore proposing to the Government and following this to entrepreneurs and craftsmen, as they have stated in their demands, to reconsider the law in which to put it. I don't know if it's a tax law or some other law. And if this is not accepted now, let him come with another proposal as quickly as possible before us.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u242	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. The proposal to supplement the Public Finance Act is clearly intended to rationalise processing or payment of compulsory duties and other public financial revenues. By uniting all public financial benefits into a common account, the administrative burden on Slovenian entrepreneurs and businesses would indeed be reduced. This would certainly mean quite a bit of financial savings, especially for micro and small enterprises, because for each payment order a commission has to be paid to the bank. And these tasks, in addition to the late work, also represent a certain financial cost, especially for small entrepreneurs who are in charge of such administrative work. However, if they follow the government’s or the financial ministry’s statements, such addition would result in legal system consequences as a result of such an intervention. The Ministry states that this would significantly reduce the transparency of the legal regime and should not be included in the Public Finance Act. So, if this is true, then the matter is not so simple and it should be pursued systematically and thoroughly and not only by supplementing one or two articles of the Public Finance Act. We certainly welcome and want such a measure in the Slovenian National Party, and we expect the Government to do something in this direction. So if I finish this brief presentation of the Slovenian National Party's position on the proposed amendment to the Public Finance Act, because, as I have seen, you have actually discussed the predecessors in this direction and I agree with you. We accept this proposal and believe that it has been useful for entrepreneurs and legal persons in general, and we expect the Government to have this in mind and to include such an option in the near future. Certainly, we also want a little more operational cooperation from the finance ministry and a proponent of well-intentioned and Slovenian entrepreneurs with certainly useful proposals. This would be a short one, all the rest of the populist fling that we have witnessed today, especially in the first part of today's meeting in the Slovenian National Party, we will leave today, and we will not kill so tired viewers, listeners and Members present. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u243	This was the last position of the Group of Members?Oh, my God! Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u244	Thank you. We have also decided to be brief in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. While the proposed changes do not have a major financial impact on the business of economic operators, they would make an important contribution to de-barcation and, above all, would have an impact on their easier operation. In fact, there is no need for certain legal persons to pay taxes and contributions to the State on 10 different bank accounts. In addition to the late procedure and determining which sub-account or account is correct, such a solution also amounts to up to 10 times the cost of commission payments as would be necessary. This bill will also be supported by the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Ljubo Germič has the word on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u246	Thank you for your kind words, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary. The proposal that we are considering under this law is new by the SDS Group, as it has been properly presented, but it is of course an idea that is presented as one of the initiatives and proposals of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry to facilitate business, to reduce administrative barriers, simplification and, of course, to rationalise business. That is why this proposal, which will certainly also be the subject of a thorough reflection by both the financial ministry and the government on what it is cutting down on to deal with this issue. Of course, what has been presented by the Minister of Finance is not to be overlooked here, however, that the proposal, as presented in the context of the Supplement to the Public Finance Act, does not somehow correspond to the legal system and cannot be supported in this respect. Given that it has been precisely explained by the predecessors and the Finance Minister where all these obstacles are, I can only conclude the presentation of the position of the LDS Club by stating that it is not possible to support this clear conclusion at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Breda Pecan has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u248	Good evening, and thank you for your word. For two reasons, the Group of Social Democrats will not support this law and will vote in favour of the proposed decision. This is because it is, for the first time, because this proposal is wrongly located in the wrong law because it mixes direct and indirect budgetary users with taxpayers for taxes and contributions and therefore this does not work together. In particular, because it even puts its bill in an article that specifically speaks only of direct and indirect budgetary users. Given that the applicant did not seem to recall the use of the best finance minister from the previous mandate in Europe, he obviously missed the methodology and thus also missed the goal. At the same time, this measure does not, in fact, achieve any major anti-crisis measures and, therefore, makes it pointless to support such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The word is given by Iztok Podkrižnik on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u250	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. During the new country of Slovenia there was no lack of development strategies. It is also impossible to tell all governments to date that they have not attracted the participation of all experts. Educators have contributed greatly to the development of development documents, which is good for Slovenia. A market economy country without effective regulation is unable to survive, which is not always sufficiently taken into account in our practice, especially today. Generations to come want to know how we'll all live together tomorrow and above all what. We believe that today we are at a point where very clear goals need to be explored, for this requires the time in which we live. This means more emphasis on education that will paralyse market requirements, the financial system, the rule of law and the active role of the government. Only in this way will we be able to update the knowledge-based economy, technological innovations with modern infrastructure, and thus step up our own role. However, learned words and good promises mean nothing without the realization and measurement of achievements. For success, clear goals and means of implementation are required. For a country like ours, the most appropriate strategy would be the economic niche, not size. The ongoing projects, which will continue to be mainly from EU funds, should form an integral part of the national plan. So it is not a dilemma: a strategy yes or no - but a dish: effectively and liquidly controlled in implementation itself. We estimate that the very impact of strategies on the real flows of realisation is fundamentally too weak. We believe that no greater consensus has been put in place so far for the realization of these. Development is mainly decided by good financial instruments, taxes such as the whole system's dynamics and good cooperation with civil society. Too much is said and written, structural changes are needed for further economic development; higher education structure, objectives, real targeted education, flexibility of the labour market, improved corporate financing system, increased investment in research, technological equipment. All of this leads to greater market performance and a better economic situation for the whole of society. These objectives will not be achieved through budgets and not through medium-term strategies. This calls for awareness, a strong development interest of all stakeholders, a substantial increase in development efforts, which, in the long run, bring greater development benefits to all, as well as to the country. Without radical changes in the concept of development, I fear that the story of success will end. What is most important is that the Government and Parliament take into account the guidelines set out in the Slovenian Economic Development Strategy. This is the only way to accelerate the development of innovative entrepreneurship, which must become the engine of future faster GDP growth and the country's prosperity [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u251	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u252	This is a difficult task because the situation in Slovenian companies shows a reduction in legal entities. [[...]] The survey of global entrepreneurship control places us in this area at the bottom of a third. A key step in a positive direction will be taken by Slovenia when the criteria for our success are companies that are better and not the other way around. Therefore, the law's solution - debtors, legal persons, independent entrepreneurs and similarly pay taxes, contributions and other obligations, taxes in accordance with the accounting rules and the manner in which the compulsory duties and other public financial revenues are paid to the accounts opened by the Bank of Slovenia. Contributions to a self-employed person shall be paid in three different accounts and for employees in five different accounts, which means that taxable persons, independent entrepreneurs who employ workers, must pay taxes under more than 10 different sub-accounts in fulfilment of their monthly tax obligations. VAT sub-account, miscellaneous sub-accounts, income advance, taxes and salaries paid, employee contributions and so on. In addition to the above, additional sub-accounts for late interest are laid down. For each such individual duty, the payment order must be completed and the commission paid to the bank. Compared to [[...]] [[alert the end of the debate.]] their tax liability is disproportionately high for micro- and small enterprises, which are over 100,000 in Slovenia, representing approximately 97% of all. [[..]] The aim of supplementing the proposed law is to establish a single transfer of all necessary public financial benefits to the common account and to distribute them by the appropriate key. This would significantly reduce the administrative burden on Slovenian companies, a few of the financial savings brought by the law [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The proposed additions to the Public Finance Act have no effect on public funds, it is a matter of rationalisation and a shorter procedure. [[..]] There is no need to provide additional resources for the implementation of the law. We will support the proposal in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u253	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by Lojze Posedel on behalf of the Zares Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u254	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we will not really support this proposal, we will not support it for the same reason as no proposal has been made so far, because we are convinced that the proposal has not been made in good faith, that it has not been submitted properly, and that it has not been given to help the economy, the craftsmen, but that it has been tabled in order to be liked again at this point: see, we wanted to help you, we wanted to reduce your payment costs, but those currently in the government do not want to do so, and this is now another argument of how the former government was good and how this is bad. This if it came from the opposition types of Members who are always in opposition, one would somehow understand, and in our Group of Members we are really surprised how it is possible that after four years of rule they miss a law that governs a particular area. The only argument that Mr Minister has given is that such proposals and such changes are not introduced and do not allow for amendments to the Public Finance Act, but elsewhere. That is why there is so much stranger and so much more conviction in our Group that all the proposals, including this, have not been made honestly and that is why we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u255	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members, followed by a general debate between Members and Members. Does Anton Anderlich have the word? Dr. Luke Yuri? Matovž Frangež? Joko Godec? Joze Tanko as a proponent, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u256	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I am quite surprised at how many valid reasons have been said both by the Government and some of the members of the groups, that this law is not a suitable basis for further proceedings. I am even more surprised that the assessment that we are trying to make in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group with these proposals is a shocking conclusion and shows that those who evaluate these proposals and fail to make some arguments are considering, from this point of view, difficulties, fears, general resistance and so on. In short, all I can find is that those of you who have not brought before the National Assembly no proposals or sufficient proposals, sufficient changes, to fear your own shadow. Not one thing we have submitted today, but even if this is a requirement of Slovenian craft proposing simplification of procedures, is suitable for further consideration. Once it's not a proper article, once it's not a suitable law, once it's not an appropriate intention, once it's not a suitable smell, and so on. In short, it's a pile of law-encompassed hair. I ask the Minister very clearly whether the proposed solution would be supported by the Government if, for example, he introduced it into the Tax Procedure Act on Monday. Specifically. You said the location of this solution was inappropriate. But I think it is. You're saying you need to settle this in another law. You said some in the Tax Procedure Act. I would like to know if you would propose this solution in the Tax Procedure Act, whether the Government would support it. I expect a very clear answer. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the review of the implementation of the anti-crisis measures put on the table this morning in the area of the elimination of administrative barriers in the field of the economy, the Government has written among the 41 measures in the first place: simplification of the system of payment of taxes and other compulsory duties. She wrote it in the first place. However, since this measure is a review of implementation, it is not in implementation. This measure shall not be implemented. Even yesterday, when I listened to the press conferences after the government's meeting and the statements made by some ministers, such as the Minister of Public Administration, it was said that all the measures we proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party were being implemented in a package of measures and legislative proposals were being implemented. I wonder if today, at this point, payment is being made to all the obligations of entrepreneurs, economic operators with one remittance. Is that statement, that statement made yesterday after the government's meeting correct? I'm saying no. And I also say that the Government is extremely easy to comment on the solutions that we have proposed. Perhaps the only reason why these proposals should not be supported is that the applicant does not say that, as we have heard from one of the positions, why you did not propose this in the previous term, why you did not do so at the time. It's been happening all day now - this story. I would have loved as much as I have today four years ago. But I didn't, because development, because life brings some other things that can also be implemented and some other knowledge. Many of you talk about the fact that the system is impossible to control, that it will not be monitored. Then why did you write this down among one of the basic measures or the first of the 41 measures to be taken by the Government - simplification of the system of payment of taxes and other charges - if you claim that this matter cannot be seen? We had a case yesterday when we were dealing with excise duties. We had a proposal to get a refund for those who pay for the fuel with cash. There was the same excuse: it was impossible to control. Is the form of payment, is it a virman, an invoice, or is it a credit card essential to whether or not someone is entitled to the refund? Are the payment appropriations not equivalent to each other? With what we accepted yesterday in excise duties, cash is obviously less valuable money than a payment card, like some other form of remittance. I do not think that the approach we have in this mandate is appropriate. The material provided by the Government states that the Government wants to influence this system of simplification and reduction of administrative barriers also to organisational culture and the way in which experts in ministries draw up laws and other regulations in order to place particular emphasis on the four principles of the removal of administrative barriers in the preparation of regulations among other principles of better regulation. This was written by the Government, and there is a project called "Six Ways to Simplification". The second focus of this project is "Think Small First" - that is exactly what we are talking about. Then the third emphasis is "Everything in One Place" - also this is in context, this proposal that everything is in one place. And the fourth point is, "Just once." Page 54, "Just once" and "All in one place." The proposal that you have before you is precisely this one, predicts a single transfer that we make in one place; and it is also obviously not good enough for the government to support it. And the following says what the government has in store for it. It is said that these theories, or these highlights, which are written as priority measures, are not in preparation, but in preparation the Government has rules of procedure which relate mainly to the regulation of cooperation with the public. That's what the government's up to! It is said that this communication approach to the public, not measures to remove administrative barriers, not measures to eliminate simplification of procedures or anything, but measures in the field of cooperation with the public. I would like to remind you that the former Minister of Public Administration has established an extremely effective system for collecting initiatives, information, proposals for administrative simplification. You can communicate electronically, there's a system of start-ups in one place, a lot of these things have been established and they're all working. They're all working. And a number of simplifications that have been made also work. In fact, I do not see any particular reason why this proposal, which falls entirely within the definition or is in line with the definitions that the Government has written, would not be supported. There's no reason! There is no reason why this proposal should not be supported because the principles put forward by the Government are enshrined in this review of government measures implemented during the crisis. I would like an answer from the minister, a clear answer: Is it only a problem that this law or solution is not prescribed in the right law? Or would we support the introduction of the Tax Procedure Act on Monday and the provision of this solution in another law? So far, this has been the only argument of the government why this solution is not supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, Dr. McKinley. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u258	Thank you very much. A respected choir! Regardless of the late hour, I can answer two questions. The first is really the question of how the law is governed by this regime and this can be changed by a new initiative. I would agree that if a new initiative were to be introduced, then this matter must have a calendar, namely, a project, e-VEM, is called, a real single point of registration of business entities also for all other purposes, and this requires an appropriate legal basis. We'll make the right law for that. It will then follow the development of appropriate systems, which will require additional budgetary resources, organisation of work, appropriate information technology, which will allow us, when we type in a specific instruction, to indicate that a certain amount is paid, that the programme itself will allow this amount to be redistributed for different purposes. We will also be able to decide what is paid for, what is not paid. If we are less than what the account was exposed to, then we will tell what we did not want to pay and all of this remains duly registered, it will also be recognised as documentation. So this will take considerable time - a legal decision will be needed first, and then a considerable study and organisational effort, as well as substantial resources, will be needed to make this happen. However, in principle, I agree with the project itself, and I think that this is a modern project that is about to start working. Something in these simplifications of payments is already in the new approach of banks to the SEPAM payment instruments. This project will be implemented relatively quickly here and will allow for some relief. For those we want, it will take quite some time to get them out. But I have no objection to this being introduced, and then, on a gradual basis, with a certain notebook that will be logically written and supported by appropriate means, this will be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u259	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Campus. No, no, no. You're giving up. Mr. Zanoskar. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u260	Thank you for your word. Thus, it is likely that the 13th hour of today’s 10th extraordinary session will be held. I'm afraid, probably some of you too, that picking up this session today will be very small or no. It is a little surprising to me, however, that I believe in the system that it must run in an orderly manner, that when already the working body is negatively defined to all the proposals, that we still have to carry out this public debate in the National Assembly and from which there will not be much of it, the costs that we have to pay will be our time to give in this debate, or else the debate is also a good time to open up the left and the right to make those observations that have not yet been made or something like that and learn from each other. I think that there are other levers through which applicants could influence the drafting of legislation and suggest to the Government that such legislation be drafted, where all the measures they think are right and that they are the ones that will move forward. Of course, we will not get rid of the feeling, even at the end of this 10th extraordinary session, when we see that we have done almost nothing, except those information that was good on the part of the Government, and not least the opposition's proposals that nothing but that this 10th extraordinary meeting took place in the time before the European elections, and that this was also the moment when there was also a lot of such a sophisticated way to get through the wider debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u261	Thank you. Mr. Chapich has the floor. He's quitting. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam? He's also proving himself. Mr. Brultz? No, no, no. Mr. Tanko? You want a word as a person on the list of speakers, not as a proponent? There's no time, then I apologize. Does the Minister want another word? He's quitting. Mr. Tanko as a proponent? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u262	Just for a little while. I do not think there are any specific reasons why certain simplifications would not be allowed to join the country in paying for the economic obligation. We do not need any new mechanisms, no new systems. Probably all the bases, including the technical means we need to do so, exist. I think that the development of computer systems, especially in Banka Slovenije, is at such a level that by introducing some formula it allows the system to actually run very easily and relatively quickly. For this reason, I believe that the Government's approach, when it tries to maintain and delay these measures, is inappropriate. A very similar excuse that something could not be monitored was also in the previous paragraph when we discussed the value added law in one of the previous discussions. A key argument by the Government why it is not possible to introduce a shorter payment deadline was that no control is possible. The key argument here is extremely similar. I think that in today's computer age, when we have virtually all access everywhere and when we have systems and institutions that control it, there is no problem and there is no problem with control at all. And there are no obstacles to this system of payment of taxes or the obligations of the economy towards the country, as regulated by this law. If it's necessary to change the title of the law, we can change that too, your honor. Therefore, we do not need any change in the law, as you have stated, to arrange this business in some other way with another law. He's doing business on the e-system as well. This payment of liabilities to the e-system is also in operation now, only a little more of this administrative needs to be done. Fifteen times as much as we'd do if we put it in with a single transfer in one place. This change from the point of view of entrepreneurs is, in fact, substantial, minimal. And even when the parliamentary group is on the ground, including in this mandate, it is one of the very important claims or demands, as well as proposals for changes and improvements. And it is very difficult for them to accept that the country is unable to react even where things cost nothing. We had listened to a number of speeches earlier when, above all, those who are more represented in the financial statements in the coalition parliamentary groups found that the measures were not financially covered and therefore could not be supported. This measure does not even require a tolar of funds. We don't need the euro for him, we just need to decide whether we get into this system or not. We don't need a single euro to do this, and it's really pointless to oppose such an arrangement. It costs nothing and, on the other hand, let us make it easier for all those who deal with the economy to engage in entrepreneurship, and especially for those small ones who have a disproportionately high share of these costs, essential matters. We substantially simplify the work of accounting services, significantly simplify accounts and so on. And it is incomprehensible to object to such a measure. Incomprehensible. Have mercy on those who persist in these measures, although there is no need and no ground for argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u263	Thank you. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day - firstly, a proposal for a law on economic aid in the course of economic crisis with the promotion of private consumption. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the text to the representative of the law's proponents, Zvonko Černač, for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u264	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present. The measures taken to improve the economic and social situation in other European countries could be broken down into three groups. The first was measures for the stabilisation and normal functioning of the financial system and the financial market. In other measures to promote the production and investment activities of enterprises, including job conservation measures. And in the third segment, measures to promote personal consumption and greater investment activities of the country. The latter in our country were not accepted or opposed by the government. The proposed law is therefore intended to promote consumption, but not any consumption. The consumption, which also has environmental benefits or consumption, on the one hand solves the housing problem to six thousand young families and on the other hand represents a multiplier effect on many sectors in our country, and above all represents an impulse for greater consumption. Unfortunately, the Government does not propose or even oppose such measures, referring to the burden of public finances. Let us see what we are proposing: we are proposing a ten-thousand-euro subsidy to young families and individuals who have not yet reached thirty-three years of age and who are solving for the first time their housing problem for the purchase of housing or for the construction of reconstruction and changes on the purpose of existing buildings, as many families are also solving their housing problem in this way. In addition, we propose that the area of housing loan insurance be otherwise regulated, allowing the rental of loans for the purchase or construction of housing also for those who are employed for a certain period of time or who work informally and have difficulty obtaining loans. The number of subsidies for the purchase of apartments or for the construction, reconstruction and conversion of existing buildings is limited to six thousand, which is a poor 20% of households that are planning to build or buy apartments or houses after a survey by the Statistical Office in the following year. The law also proposes to subsidise the replacement of an old passenger car for a new, more environmentally friendly vehicle, as this is a measure which, in addition to revitalising economic activity, also contributes significantly to reducing environmental pollution and greater transport safety. In addition to the value of the old car, the value of a 1,000-euro subsidy per vehicle and the limitation of this measure to fifteen thousand vehicles is therefore proposed for about the number of passenger cars that our country is expected to sell in 2009 due to the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. The bill is based on the principle of fairness and the principle of solidarity, as it gives priority to subsidies to address the housing problem to the socially weaker. In the case of subsidies to replace an old eco-controversial passenger vehicle, the proposal is based on the principle of clean environment and on the safety of citizens in transport. The financial impact, as far as we look at graves without multiple effects, amounts to €75 million, but in all the countries where similar measures have been introduced, has shown that there has been no financial shortfall. On the contrary. Inflows to state budgets have increased as the calculation is relatively simple. If you speed up the sale, which would not have happened, the average value of a passenger car is EUR 10,000 for two thousand. With an average unit value of €120,000 and €8.5 per cent of VAT, this inflow is also €10,000, not to mention, of course, the other effects that occur in the purchase or construction of apartments, because we know that it is necessary to buy furniture, bathroom, equipment and so on. In short, it is about promoting consumption, which we are also reminded of by the Management Committee of the Chamber of Commerce, which says that the country should be more encouraged by general and also by national consumption, as the crisis is already and will be even stronger in the coming months. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that there is no valid and justified reason to oppose this law, so we will also defend this law in this consideration, because we believe that it will have positive effects on the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u265	Thank you. I give my word to a representative of the Magnificent Government. Darji Radic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u266	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. Allow me to present to you the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Proposal for an Economic Assistance Act during the economic crisis by promoting private consumption. The bill proposes to encourage private consumption with two types of possible measures to promote private consumption, namely, subsidies to young families for the purchase of ten thousand euros in housing and subsidies to replace an old car with a new car of 1,000 euros. Both measures and the proposal for a law have been examined by the Government and the following opinion has been adopted in this regard. First of all, as regards subsidies to replace old vehicles with new vehicles. We know that this measure is being implemented by some European Union countries. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that this is mainly the case for countries with a strong automotive industry. We know that in Slovenia the only car manufacturer is Revoz, who has already successfully implemented the action and significantly reduced the prices of new cars. For this reason, we believe that a more accurate analysis of the benefit that such a measure would have in order to promote private consumption in Slovenia should be made before a decision on such a measure or to support it. I don't think we need to encourage consumption elsewhere because we don't have car manufacturers in Slovenia, but we have suppliers. Suppliers for the automotive industry. 100,000 jobs are linked to those companies that are suppliers in the automotive industry. That is why, in fact, we have decided in the Government and in the second package of measures, in fact, this measure has already been prepared and is just before implementation, to support car suppliers with development credits at this stage so that they can make investments in the purchase of new tools, the development of new technologies, so that they can even remain suppliers so that they can remain in this competitive game and produce ecological cars, even after these crises are over. With regard to the second proposal relating to the housing area, however, we note that the content defining this bill is already defined in the Law on National Housing Savings Schemes and Grants to Young Families for the First Resolution of the Housing Problem. The existing law of subsidy, which a young family can obtain for the first time to solve the housing issue, to build, to buy and to reconstruct or to change destination, progressively binds a number of family members. It is possible to obtain a grant of EUR 300 per family member for a good 8 years. The combined effect of this measure is EUR 7200 for the family of three members and EUR 9600 for the family of four, which is actually very close to this proposal in the proposal of this law. As I have already mentioned, these are essentially two possible measures to promote private consumption or investment consumption. The government also decided to assess the effects, final effects on investment consumption and selected two other measures. The first is that we will make investments of €21 million in the renovation of public buildings. This is also ecological, as the Member said earlier in the opening speech. So this measure is also purely OK from this point of view. Then we also have a call for co-financing of investments in tourism infrastructure, where we will encourage an investment cycle of at least EUR 100 million with a country contribution of EUR 25 million. These are also proposals for the government to increase investment consumption. In order to do much more if more investment projects were to be prepared. Your Honor! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers, in accordance with what has been said, that the law in the form proposed now is not necessary and is also inappropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u267	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u268	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! What do we want? At this point, the Slovenian National Party will make it clear that it does not. Clear not to that law. In the simplest way, I'll try to tell you why not. Car subsidies, please, so that merchants will still have a 20 or 25% margin. To sell cars. Hello!? Not by chance. The car industry - I looked into, during the recession and crisis, at all requests for credit and assistance from the state, flowers. Really, I personally asked you to buy one car out of a stunt I won't because it doesn't have one. I said, I've been waiting six months for the price to drop. "Where," they said, "and you're crazy! Where the price won't fall." Now they've got car manufacturers credits, now they're going to produce flowers. You don't happen to know the law of the market. Even for one euro in six months, the price of the car did not fall. Are we going to give people subsidies to buy a car? Where do we live?Oh, my God! Flats. Yeah, young people's apartments. If it were, and I know it's not her fault, the current minister here would ask her how many empty apartments the former JLA, the army, have at its disposal, how many empty, how many empty and broken apartments there are. How many empty and corrupt apartments do the Ministry of the Interior have? With regard to housing subsidies. Is it true that construction companies have to live, but will the state "further" them again, on this account, that construction companies will live and will not reduce by one euro or ten euros the price of a square meter apartment, just to work? I respect the good will and the desire and desire to help young people in their homes, to help people live normal lives, as they should live, but not in this way. Spirala requires that production be accelerated, that production generates profits that do not require individuals to suffer in their pockets, but to share them among people to increase their wages, that they give people more money. That's what the promised client will take care of. That's not what I'm worried about. But she hasn't eaten without work, gentlemen, the crisis today can only be solved by work, without work. I'm very sorry, just with the subsidies, where we're going to come, the subsidies here, the subsidies there, the subsidies there. Nothing's gonna happen. In the Slovenian National Party, we want to be honest and say bob beans. We will not live from the automotive industry because we do not have our own, we have French, I am very sorry, although there are many people, thank God, in New City. And not to mention one of the French companies that comes from Trebovlje, where I've been spat on long and long. I'm not going to mention it for some, but for some, it's not good, but there's 180 people times 3, really from hand to mouth, and there's the French rich. All right, let them lower the margins, let traders lower the margins, help young families, let banks, the country, but here I support this side, let the state see to banks that the bank will loan young families to buy apartments or give them the opportunity to buy apartments, and the bank will smell them not because they do not have a regular job, but neither is the state bank. Are we going to subsidize them?Oh, my God! The builders who will market and say, "Now there will be a square meter of once 3,000 Euros, 4,000 Euros." Instead of giving mortgages on the most favourable terms for young people to buy apartments. No, the state will subsidize. Bellies and clothes, of course, will grow larger numbers, and will grow to gentlemen magnates from construction and other companies. Oh, no. In this case, in the Slovenian National Party, although I know, I stress once again the good purpose, such a law - it would be a smile in front of everyone! Let them lower their margins. And in the end, I come back to the saddest store we've ever invented to be social. For those of you who are poor is the store there and buying a broken salami, but for "as" normal is the shop there It's a shame! [[...]] But so that the trader called A, B or C, that I do not name them, would lower them to the margin to be available to all people - me, my neighbor, as well as the one who lost his job. Oh, no. And we're going social, opening up a store for the poor. Why is that?Oh, my God! To support those, including those who have opened up trades for the poor, you know, they are not from a social sense, they also have their profits, believe me. But if they don't have it, they'll create it. Thank you, otherwise I respect the initiative, but I expect that we will find the right ways and ways together, and if you want - we have said a little, but we will-we will help young people. First proposal of the Slovenian National Party - a concrete - country takes care of the New Ljubljana Bank. Make sure that this will lend, in the most favourable way, to young families, with the most favourable mortgage loans for the purchase of apartments. Secondly, the State - Ministry of Defence, Ministry of the Interior, should finally make a list of their dwellings and offer them to young families under the most favourable conditions, if they do not need them. And you'll see, if this happens in a year, there's going to be a lot of young families that have a good way of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u269	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u270	Your Honors are here! What do we want? They're just different views on certain things. Maybe I'll say it a little differently. One of the objectives to be achieved in these times of crisis is to encourage the consumption of the population in order to stimulate economic activity. Population spending should be encouraged in particular in those economic sectors that include an important part of the economy and, in particular, those whose recovery would have the greatest and fastest impact on the recovery of all economic activity. These are areas of construction, housing, and automotive. It is true that the measure requires a considerable amount of public funding, but the funds invested in the country would be reimbursed quickly due to increased economic activity, which means more taxes collected and less unemployment. The bill contains two measures, the first to propose a subsidy to young families and individuals who have not yet reached the age of 33 and who are solving their housing problem for the first time, as well as for the purchase of housing for the construction, reconstruction and change of the purpose of existing facilities, as families are also solving the housing problem. Due to the financial and economic crisis, many constructed apartments, despite the price decrease, remained unsold construction of many housing units stopped. Many families, especially those who are socially weaker, have stopped solving the housing problem. The result is a reduction in construction activity, which is a name that has a particularly negative impact on the whole economy. It is therefore necessary to revive the construction industry in order to revive the Slovenian economy. Another measure is to subsidise the replacement of an old passenger car for a new, more environmentally friendly vehicle, as it is a measure that would have an important impact on the recovery of economic activity. The car industry is a very important part of the economy in Slovenia, as we have a number of companies producing parts for the automotive industry besides the direct car manufacturer. We will also support this last law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u271	Thank you. Mr Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Once again, for the last time, a nice greeting, and a greeting to the secretary. What do we think about this law at the Liberal Democracy Club? Of course, due to the general likeness of promoting the personal consumption of the population, the proposed forms of direct subsidies are ungrateful to oppose. However, in this anti-crisis measure proposed by the opposition, it is necessary to maintain a clear head and also to consider the arguments against these solutions, while also paying close attention to certain signs that indicate that it is also possible for a law that has certain elements of the lobbying law. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, of course, we want to make it easier for young people to go to their own home, but the 1,000 euro subsidy to most young people will not significantly facilitate this path. Most young people are employed for a certain period of time, working with copyright contracts and the like, so the banks do not approve of their housing loans. In our view, it will also be necessary to establish some sort of guarantee scheme that will allow young people to borrow long-term housing loans. The budgetary resources invested in such a form of assistance to young people, at least most of them, would, according to the LDS Club, bring greater benefits than direct subsidies of EUR 10,000 and actually make it easier for them to buy their own apartment. Furthermore, in our view, the supply of non-profit rental apartments must be strengthened, which must become more accessible to young people and not now that they are intended primarily for socially disadvantaged families. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the accessibility of dwellings for young people has not improved at the time of the merger. Even the opposite. I'm getting worse. The previous Government has had the opportunity to significantly increase assistance to young people in the purchase of housing in an inappropriately better situation than the current one, unfortunately, has not taken advantage of it. Of course, at that time he made excellent use of speculative capital, which, due to the unrestrained and jumpy rise in real estate prices, moved into housing. A large part of this capital today lies in unsold apartments, and we hope to claim that the owners of such unsold apartments are the most taken over the proposed subsidy. It would therefore be primarily to resolve the speculative capital investments already made and significantly less to promote a new investment cycle in construction. Further emphasis should be placed on what has already been stressed by the Secretary of State to ensure that similar content, as outlined in the proposal for a housing law, is already defined by the applicable Law on National Housing Savings Schemes and Grants for Young Families and the first solution to the housing issue. The average three-member family can thus receive €7,200 of the subsidy over an eight-year period and €9,600 for the four-member family. This subsidy, according to our government, is now being accepted by nearly two thousand young families who really need encouragement, but not by families whose incomes are high enough to solve these problems themselves. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are also skeptical of the proposal for a 1,000-euro subsidy to replace an environmentally-disputed passenger car for a new passenger car. We agree with the Government that, in order to encourage the Slovenian automotive cluster, there is much more to it than the demand-side incentive, which the Government is already doing. The proposed measure would have a minimal impact on the domestic Slovenian industry, as it should be borne in mind that around eighteen million cars are produced annually in the European Union and that the Slovenian automotive market covers about sixty thousand of these vehicles or only 0.33% of the annual production in the European Union. Unless, of course, in a law that saves the Slovenian automotive industry, we attribute that only one of the two models produced by the New Town Revoz can be bought. In this case, the effects of the measure on the domestic industry would be slightly greater. It is also interesting to suggest that, at the price of a car of ten thousand euros and thousands of euros in subsidies, the country would receive two thousand euros back immediately via VAT, which is once again more than the subsidy. This argument is simply inappropriate for me to express myself nicely. If, like the applicant, we ignore the tax on motor vehicles and the beneficial effects on car traders and the fact that the positive effects on the domestic industry are negligible, the only real effects of the measure would be the EUR 15 million additional inflows to the state budget, and I doubt that this is the purpose that the opposition wishes to achieve by this law. The positive environmental effects of such a subsidy are also at first sight controversial. It is true that it would directly reduce emissions of harmful emissions, but it would be an important incentive for individual road traffic against already so-breeding public transport. What problems cause us too much of individual road traffic in our cities, we can see in the centre of Ljubljana these days, where only temporary closure of one of the less important streets causes indescribable congestion and congestion in the wider city centre, so that we do not lose words about increasing pollution already too much air pollution. From an ecological point of view, it would certainly be wiser to use these and additional resources to subsidise the purchase of new buses or, say, subsidise the purchase of missing electronic passenger trains of Slovenian Railways. Due to the concerns expressed about both measures contained in the proposed law, we attach to the Government's position in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that such laws are not necessary at this time, so we will vote in favour of the conclusion that the proposed law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u273	Thank you. Mr Anton Kampuš will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u274	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Secretary-General! It's two bills. The first proposal is to subsidise the first solution to the housing problem for young families and individuals, which, under the proposal of 6,000 State budget subsidies of 10,000 euros, would facilitate the state budget for 60 million euros, which is unsustainable in the current economic situation and would actually push the country into an even deeper public financial crisis than the current one which, due to last year's Law on the Subvention of Diagnostic Nutrition, will further deepen free kindergartens for another child. Moreover, the adoption of the law is not necessary, as we are already offering assistance in the area of housing. National Housing Savings Scheme Act. This scheme is not so different from the one proposed in the opposition law, as it is linked to the number of household members and eight years of age so that each four-member family can obtain 9,800 euros at that time. Moreover, there is no direct pressure on budgetary resources that would arise if the bill was tabled. The second part of the proposed law relating to the subsidisation of the purchase of cars was also addressed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal of the three coalition members, but the proposed project is not covered by the adopted budget rebalance and would result in instability of public finances. The proposed funds to be provided for the implementation of the proposed law are estimated at EUR 15 million. Moreover, the claim that the adoption of this law would directly support the automotive or accompanying industry in the Republic of Slovenia is questionable, since it basically tanges only car traders and thus merely a small proportion of the whole automotive industry. In addition, Revoz, as the only Slovenian car manufacturer, has already carried out an action to reduce car prices, so in the case of the proposed subsidy, the share in the Slovenian car industry would be even lower. For all these reasons, the SD Group considers that the law is not suitable for further consideration as it would result in a relatively high increase in public expenditure and, on the other hand, the effect is highly questionable. In addition, one of the proposals mentioned in the law already exists in law, and the other on the basis of a parliamentary initiative has been examined for implementation, but the benefits would be less than the stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u275	Thank you. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President. Of course, there are concrete measures to encourage private consumption immediately. In Slovenia, car sales have fallen by more than 35% and the car industry in the Republic of Slovenia employs about 25,000 people. It's not just Revoz. Here are a number of companies that work, which participate in the supply industry, supply known brands with assemblies, components. So many families in the Republic of Slovenia are connected to the automotive industry. It is extremely underestimating to talk about car dealers when it comes to the automotive industry. This is also evident in the publication Automotive clustering in Europe, in which Slovenia is mentioned as an important partner. Anyone underestimating this industry would recommend reading this book. In fact, it speaks very superficially here, and in some ways it is demeaning to this industry. If this industry were really so insignificant in countries where the automotive industry is an important segment of the economy, then many European countries would not choose to subsidise. These are the countries that have decided to subsidise, in particular, I would point out France, which has also drawn the Slovenian industry out of the problems that have been announced and "we are stalking this" and we are obviously going to "fall" if that is the case, even in the future. One more thing. Financially, all the countries that introduced the subsidies showed that this was worth it, as the inflow from the sales taxes on motor vehicles resulting from the increased sales covered the costs of the subsidies. That turned out to be where they had already introduced it. But you are here full of behavior and knowledge as to how this is a wrong measure. We have practice from other countries, we have a clear meaning for the Slovenian automotive industry, but here is the prevailing view that this is nothing against your imaginations and beliefs. I don't know how else to convince you, as you can be convinced by positive examples from Europe. The position of the Ministry or Government is also worrying. Apparently, it is not his idea to promote the Slovenian economy. For example, in a way that Minister Lahovnik afforded yesterday on Trenj's show. There, for political purposes, when he wanted to raid and discredit the former authorities, he said that we had sunk Luka Koper, Intereuropo, and he listed some other companies. Imagine that the Croatian Minister of Economy would say that a certain authority has sunk Luke Rijeka and imagine Luke doing some business in China, Israel, India, or elsewhere. Inventory of politically motivated statements is harmful to the Slovenian economy. This is outrageous, unacceptable, and you will actually sink the Slovenian economy. That's the way it is. I can't imagine what the diplomatic circles in the Republic of Slovenia would do and how they would carry it on, where, of course, they closely follow the statements of leading government representatives and, of course, send them to their own for business purposes. Respected, if you thus imagine the role and assistance of an economy such as this eclectic case of inappropriate behaviour, it is in fact unfair to discredit a good Slovenian company before being audited, before any results. This is outrageous and unacceptable. And what I can't imagine is that the Minister of the Slovenian Government, whose first goal and purpose is to run for elections, can afford, not to solve the problems of the economy in the Republic of Slovenia. In this way, the situation in our country cannot be tackled and we therefore consider such measures as this specific law an important step forward. Moreover, in the course of the debate at the Parliamentary Committee on the Economy, the Government announced that it would approach increasing private consumption in a different way to subsidise the credit activity of the population in order to provide favourable credits for the purchase and resolution of the housing problems of young families. Nice and good, we welcome this action. This action is good, but it's not on the table. I don't know him in a specific case, he doesn't work, he doesn't grab, and I don't know when he'll be. Until then, please accept this important instrument, which will help not only to increase private consumption and solve the problems of transport and also to solve the housing issue, it will also bring out Slovenian industry, Slovenian construction, craftsmanship and will also make an important contribution to the environment. Because it subsidizes low-emission cars in terms of replacing these cars with more than 10 years old. In this way, it can help in concrete terms and immediately. Texting and searching for what is wrong in this proposal, with examples of practices that already exist showing the opposite, of course, are unconvincing for the Slovenian Democratic Party. So, finally start helping the Slovenian economy in these times of crisis, but not for the purposes of political confrontation to deal with and discredit the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u277	Thank you. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u278	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The last in the package of laws to be dealt with today is the Economic Aid Act during the economic crisis by promoting private consumption. We can say that this law, which is at first sight likes, belongs to the package of those, I will say, the most popular and at first glance are also interesting proposals. But I'll say, the devil is in detail, people say. And here, too, I think we should look at these details, especially with a very interesting and attractive EUR 1000 subsidy proposal when buying and replacing cars. However, it must be said that there are a number of things that do speak in favour of this proposal not only bearing good things. Finally, we must first ask ourselves whether buying and encouraging the purchase of cars should be viewed only from the point of view of consumption or perhaps from another point of view, from the point of view of the environment. In this area, we have not done much in Slovenia and it is particularly clear to ask whether it is necessary to encourage already well-equipped Slovenians in cars, while we have not done much to promote public passenger transport. That's what I'm going to say. That's what's at stake with us. That's an ecological aspect. However, we also want to say in the Group that we do not think that we really need to do so, we do not need to encourage Slovenian governments and our taxpayers by means of our means to promote the world's automotive industry. It's only right that we focus on what we have. This is Revoz in New Town, or branch, which gives work to many and many subcontractors or this accompanying industry, which is in Slovenia and which, as we have heard, provides quite a large number of jobs. And I think the government has made the right decision to focus the measures on this exclusively non-Slovenia-bound part of the automotive industry. Not that we're going to buy Japanese cars, and I don't know who else. I think we're too small to help the whole world, and we have to help ourselves first. Last but not least, I think we really don't need and there's something behind this interest; to support the car dealers who are here in the back, and certainly have warned us many times that this is failing. But if we drive around Slovenia and observe how many of these shops have grown around every corner, I can think of why there are so many high and expensive margins in Slovenia. In short, this measure does not at all seem appropriate to us. With regard to dwellings, I think the answer is that we have many other options in this area, and this is really about weighing between different things, where I will also say how very relevant the proposal you made came up. However, there are some things we need to know; we already have a family subsidy under the National Housing Savings Scheme, which has already been discussed. And what really bothers us in the party is that, in fact, there is no consideration of the social situation in this subsidy of ten thousand euros. Despite the fact that young families are involved, there are great differences. Many can help with other options. They have rich parents. And it seems to us that the social situation, as in the National Housing Scheme, is being taken into account at national level. We do have a large crowd of empty apartments and a proposal that you have prepared for Minister Krebs and Minister of Defense I think is commendable. Let's really look at all the empty apartments, in all the areas, I'm sure that the country really has a lot of this, and I hope that we will do enough to make this fund of already built apartments and not constantly new and new construction, but it will be for young families. However, if we are encouraging construction, we are truly in our party to promote the construction of nonprofit dwellings. It is not necessary to promote purely and solely the form of ownership structure. And here I think the government has considered well and has offered good suggestions for the renovation of public buildings already mentioned. There will be a lot of work to be done here for the builders, and the benefits will be great. In particular, the benefits of energy-efficient operation of these facilities; kindergartens, schools, hospitals and so on, the extreme time. And as I follow, this call will be announced in a short time and I think it is very good and commendable and I hope that we will be successful here. I also think that the contribution of 25 million to the co-financing of tourism infrastructure means a lot in this area, as it will in some way transform to about 100 million euros for such investments. It's also, unfortunately, what we talked about this morning is no projects. You didn't leave the projects by the drawers when you left the government, and there are no projects. And those who were, but you started to trouble yourself. One such is certainly the construction of the block of 6 of the Šostanj thermal power plant, where you, as former Minister, Mr Vizjak, are guilty, directly to my assessment, of the 13-month delay in issuing the permit, because for about 200 million, it is you who are allowing yourself here to take advantage of the issue of pre-election meeting and attack, I think it is precisely for this purpose, Minister Lahovnik. I don't know. I don't think it's such a shame if a whole bunch of companies that are really sunk have been mentioned. The port of Koper, Intereuropa, can also be listed: Hit, Elan, Paloma, Petrol. Your own staff, with your client book, Timer, Loshin. I think the promotion would be much better if your staff left, now that they're leaving their posts, plus. Even Petrol, who has never been lost in history as a gas dealer, has a minus. Even Petrol. And these are your shots with your client cards, and you're attacking those who warn that something's wrong here. And you're talking about doing big, big national damage. The national damage was done by these managers, who in four years, such as the Intereuropa, have led to enormous losses. Andrej Lochshin is leaving now. I hope with your head down and your client book. And you're allowing yourself to attack someone here who warns you of that. I think it's an extreme hoax. Last but not least, even the footage in Eles, I've been talking about it since the morning, they've left it, you've directly called it, a strange legacy. Funded by Canadian rowers, financed by Pavlin's Olympia, financed purchases I don't know how expensive cars for their own needs. Dravo Power Plants, 21 million, have given a Moroccan bishop a loan that no one will ever see. I don't know who's moving around here. In the Group of Members, we will not really support the annex to the Economic Aid Act during the crisis by promoting private consumption.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u279	Thank you, Orazem, who, with the last sentence, mentioned the point we are discussing. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor to present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u280	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! It's kind of a pleasure to be able to say hello to you tonight with a good evening. It was supposed to be early in the morning. The bill proposes to encourage private consumption through subsidies to young families and individuals to address the housing problem of €10,000 and through a subsidy to replace old passenger cars for new vehicles of € 1000. Both actions sound very nice. However, when we recall that this same candidate, in the previous term, has changed tax legislation in this way, that he has taken away the possibility for families and individuals to make special arrangements for the purchase of housing under the pretext of increasing the overall relief, all of this likeness disappears at the moment. The proposed subsidy to replace an environmentally-controversial passenger car for a new passenger car also sounds nice, but according to our opinion this proposal does not directly support the automotive or residential industry in the Republic of Slovenia, but mainly traders. In the DeSUS Group, we fully understand the good intentions of the applicants, but the method of proposing according to our assessment is not appropriate. I agree with the purpose or opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that these two proposed measures do not require a specific law and that such a way of solving problems is not appropriate. On the one hand, the applicants propose calling for an urgent meeting to imply their solutions as soon as possible in practice, of course, to the extent that they have been adopted and, on the other hand, delaying the consideration of laws by requiring a general hearing for each individual, which clearly indicates that the desire of the applicants is merely an awakening of public attention, but not an honest intention to address the crisis. In our parliamentary group, we do not support a bill which we do not support and we do not think is appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u281	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Anderlich has the word - no. Mr. Frangež, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u282	Respected and respected. I'd like to focus on the residential part of this law. I would like to illustrate to you the results of the European Social Housing Observatory report from Brussels, which shows the interesting structure of the housing fund in Slovenia. Slovenia has a very high ownership structure as a result of the ownership of former social housing. As many as 93% of all dwellings in Slovenia are owned by the people living in them. In private rentals there are 4% of apartments, in social rentals only 3% of apartments. If we look at the Netherlands, which is the second extreme, for my understanding of the more advanced extreme between European countries, the share of ownership dwellings is only 34%, 11% is in private leases and 35% are in social rental. A very underdeveloped rental market in Slovenia is a central problem. My parents' generation, most of them sitting here, could in the process of owning former social housing in a very convenient way solve their housing issue. The generation I belong to, and a generation younger than I am, doesn't have this option anymore. If we are to solve our housing issue in an equity way, the only option we have is to credit for the next 30 years. For many people, for many young people who are mostly employed for a certain period of time and have an average wage, this means that they have €400 left for life, for family development, for all living expenses at best. at best. By deducting those costs that are in each of us’s lives, of course, significantly less. This is a problem that Slovenian policy must address. The proposal by Dr. Luke Yuri, Dejan Levanič and me, regarding empty apartments, is already being implemented, and I am glad that the government here has found a hearing that we have once provided 130 apartments from the Ministry of Defence's quota. However, we must go on to develop a rental market in Slovenia. We are thinking about an initiative to create a national housing scheme, because in this country it is no longer necessary to encourage the construction of new apartments for sale on the market, what we need is the development of the rental sector. In this respect, we propose that, given that the country today has a large proportion of the vacant apartments that have been built for sale on the market, this is a private offer, we propose to the Government that it include this private offer through the public-private partnership in the country's organised offer for renting. The potential owners of these apartments should also encourage this by issuing guarantees to extend short-term loans that have been leased in order to build a block quickly, sell it and then repay it, over a longer period of time, so that the annuity of the repayment of this loan would correspond to the monthly rent. Only in this way will we allow the young generation a decent, affordable solution to the housing problem, which will not constitute a credit burden for life. Therefore, I think that the solution offered by the applicants is going in the wrong direction. And I don't intend to support her. As far as motor vehicles are concerned, I think that, in a relatively unfortunate way, the law also takes the initiative of Dr. Luke Juri, Dejan Levanič and myself, but with much less attention to the need to resolve the income side in such legal solutions, it is appropriate to cover the financial resources we need to implement such subsidies. But it's my intention to agree. It is not encouraging the purchase of vehicles, on the other hand, to change the structure of vehicles on the Slovenian market, so that more vehicles are environmentally sound and similar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u283	Thank you. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u284	Thank you very much. I will proceed from where my colleague and friend Frangež just finished. We are pleased that members of the SDS have taken the initiative of Matevž Frangež, Dejan Levanič and me on subsidies for the purchase of vehicles, but have taken it on a superficial basis. On the one hand, no provision was made for income or financial resources to cover the subsidies. Our initiative sets out this revenue clearly in increasing the tax on motor vehicles for the most polluting vehicles. And, secondly, they've completely changed the terms for the acquisition of the subsidy. And to be honest with you. The SDS proposal aims to increase consumption. However, our initiative is to change the structure of vehicles and destroy polluting vehicles and replace them with ecological ones. Therefore, different emission conditions and different conditions, stricter conditions for the possibility of obtaining this subsidy. As regards the subsidy for the purchase of dwellings, with what my friend Frangež has already said, it is only possible to add that, as this subsidy is granted, it goes directly into the hands of Slovenian citizens and citizens, but essentially goes into the hands of construction companies and foreign unskilled workers. We therefore support the Tenant Housing Fund, which is significantly more flexible and substantially subordinated to better and more effective responses to the needs of young and young families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u285	Thank you. Mr. Blackach, as your candidate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u286	Thank you very much. First, it should be said that those who are discussing or representing the views of the parliamentary groups should at least read what you are talking about in this law. There were quite a few of you who didn't read the whole marriage. Second. What importance does the Government attach to this area, is evident from the fact that it has declared at this point the shortest time and that only the State Secretary from the Ministry of Economy currently sits in the Chamber. When it comes to housing, you would expect at least an environmental minister to sit here, because this area belongs to this department, or at least a Defense Minister, because, as I hear from some, the former decomposing apartment of the Yugoslav army will solve the housing problem of citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. The government said that it was a measure introduced by countries with a strong automotive industry, which is why it is not necessary in Slovenia. If these countries were to think as our government thinks, for example, French, then Revoz would probably be closed today. 100,000 jobs, said the Secretary of State, are tied in our companies to the automotive industry and implicitly each such measure means one small stone in keeping these jobs. What is essential, however, is to replace more than 10 years old cars for a new clean car, which means that both measures are being pursued, both increasing consumption and environmental aspects. For more than 35%, vehicle sales have fallen. There was also a lot of talk about how he would put the budget into the state budget. Let us see what happened in those countries where such a measure was introduced. On 10 April, following the example of Germany and France, Japan introduced a 10% tax relief after sales fell by 28%. The inflow to the state budget has increased, equal to Germany, the same as France, but it is true that the relief was $2,600 and that the registration fees for these vehicles have also been reduced. It's one step forward. How does our government feel? Our government is thinking in the opposite direction, although this has not been said by the Secretary of State, but we have read in the daily newspaper that our government will introduce a tax on motor vehicles, which means that it will additionally tax vehicles in the Republic of Slovenia, when sales fall by more than 35%, while 100,000 jobs in suppliers are related to the automotive industry, while in New Town we have a factory that manufactures cars and we expect France to solve our problem. Interesting. I don't think the arguments presented in this part are in any way true. In any event, this measure does not constitute a burden on the state budget, but rather on the contrary. With the acceleration of sales, poor, old, environmentally charged cars would be traded for new environmentally sound vehicles, sales would increase, and the inflow into the state budget would also increase. It has been said that there are already subsidies already in place for housing introduced by the previous government - it is true, and whatever they continue to exist, thank God. But you don't rule out actions. However, these subsidies, which are a permanent measure, did not increase sales or construction on the real estate market by one unit. Since this is a long-term measure that has been in operation for several years, it is necessary to save and encourage long-term housing. This concrete measure, which we are proposing, is an immediate aid in resolving the housing issue and thus in promoting consumption or consumption. Only the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia currently has over 160 unsold apartments, that is a public fund, a state fund; for which it will allow more favourable loans to be sold. To all those who will run for these apartments, there would be another incentive to buy these apartments, or it would be easier to sell. While all of these, of course, will also buy equipment, including the kitchen, including a bedroom, including a bathroom, including a washing machine, including a dryer, and something else. In short, this circle, which is static, like a credit crunch in companies, would start to turn. And what doesn't matter is the psychological aspect. A psychological aspect that would implicitly affect the fact that this negative circumstance of awareness of a crisis, where nothing is going on, would begin to break. At the same time, it must be said that our real estate market, as was said by one of the discussers, is indeed specific. We know why. Because of the traditional attachment to self-building, there are a lot of housing units built in self-building, and people are traditionally still bound by this way of solving the housing issue. That is also why we propose not only buying apartments but also building. In many environments, people are still solving their housing problem in such a way that: whether they redesign the attic in a family home, or over a garage, or in any way with a relatively low cost, they settle their housing issue, and that would mean a third of the costs of regulating such a unit. This must, of course, be based on the specific situation in which this measure is proposed. And this measure in no way destroys all the good intentions of the ruling coalition, once again on paper, in clouds, in some ways, to increase the offer of rental apartments. We agree with that. And we don't have a problem with that. But now, in six months, not one thing has happened in this direction. At least I didn't track her. But time is running out, and if you want to do what you wrote down to build 10,000 temporary non-profit apartments in your mandate, I must tell you that this will not happen because you are already well behind schedule. You don't have locations, you don't have projects, you don't even have that kind of a problem in this case, but the measures are being complemented here and they're not mutually exclusive. Thus, these arguments, which speak of less inflows to public finances from these two measures, simply do not hold. Examples of countries that have introduced similar measures tell us that the public financial inflow has increased in all these cases. On the part of Mr Saiovic, it was mentioned that, in this work, when we are talking about a subsidy for cars, it is to detect elements of the lobbying law. I think, Mr Saiovic, that lobbyists are smart people, and if they were, they would turn to you or any of those who have power and who rule and who are mostly pressured by whether or not a law will be adopted. He'd be an idiot to turn to the opposition because he knows no such law will be passed. It has also been said that we support car dealers and that this is therefore not a good measure. We don't support any merchants. As I said, we support the replacement of old eco-controversial vehicles for new eco-friendly vehicles and thus support all the industry in Slovenia that works in this sphere. It was also said that in the residential area, the government would try to solve the issue by allowing greater credit to the population for the purchase of housing. Great, because we're proposing something similar in this law. We propose that credit arrangements be arranged in cases where people do not have permanent employment and are therefore limited in access to credit. This is stated in Article 3 of this Law. However, I think that the current occupation of the country, at least after what is coming to the National Assembly and what we will decide on Monday, is the extension of the Taiwanese loans, which should now be extended even as proposed by the Government with the State guarantee. Why has Mr Veselinovich already resigned? It has been said that in the residential area, the reserves we have must be used. Mores and this old military apartment, one hundred and fifty-fifty of them, were mentioned, and it was supposed to solve the problem. One hundred-fifty in the Government's works, the matter began with the 2009 initiative, but it was not populist, but it was purely formalistic. We know where and how and how. Someone who reads this news at the STA and sees for young families a hundred and thirty empty military apartments, the Minister of Defence says this, it is important that the Government realizes that the apartments that are empty need to be restored as a matter of priority and give them to young people as soon as possible, I do not know what they can think in 2009. The Ministry of Defence is solving housing issues in this country. I don't know if this situation is appropriate. As regards the other measures taken during the previous government and which are also effective, they are not disputed. I think they're complementing that offer. They do not save what this law saves, however, the increase in consumption. That is why this law is proposed. All the other measures that you mention, however, are considered to be implemented, taken and brought to life as soon as possible by the responsible government. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u287	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Blackach said something clear about lobbyists. I'll tell you one case. At the time of the real government, a real man, in the right place, of course a respected lobbyist in the state Telekom "belongs" ninety thousand euros for the Hockey Union of Slovenia afterwards, accounting for twenty thousand Euros of commission. Because he didn't get them, but there's a third creditor who's suing the hockey association before the bankruptcy. Of course, the point is the right person, the right party. So much for lobbying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u289	Thank you. Mr. Blackach, there's no replica to the replica. As a proponent? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u290	Look. I took your words correctly, and I was talking about the marriage. With your personal injuries, Mr. Saiovic, don't burden the general public, but talk to yourself where this place is.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u291	Thank you. A representative of the government spoke. Mrs. Radich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u292	Thank you. I would just like to stress once again, given this debate. In Brussels, the European Investment Bank has signed a contract to obtain credit from the Slovenian exporting company to support new projects for manufacturers or car suppliers in Slovenia. And that's in that brochure that's mag. I brought a viscous to show you, which, of course, we all know well. That's what it says for you in there. These are members of the automotive cluster and for them these measures, which are essentially implemented by the Government in support, have been taken. In fact, no measures have been taken or envisaged in this booklet for car dealers. Just an hour ago, I received information that, even in Germany, where this measure is supposed to be, such a subsidy of cars, a success story, in fact, the other traders now say that this is not the case at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u293	Thank you. Mr. Jurša has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Roach. Here you go. You don't have much, but... You won't? [[You're giving up.]] Mr. Urh. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Chappich. [[He's not here.]] Franco Yuri. There isn't much time, but here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u294	I'll use those seconds. I think it's one big demagogic hoax. Why 1,000 euros? Why not 2,000 euros? I'd be more happy. I'll buy a car in the morning, I'll get 2,000 euros, and I'll be very happy. But let me know where you get this money. First time. There have been some concrete initiatives. It is necessary to tax non-organic cars and to encourage the purchase of eco-friendly cars. But that's not it. Then you picked up another interesting idea. Crediting housing loans. You know I've already given you this initiative. Congratulations on taking it, but it's very superficial again. It's nice to write laws. [[...]] [[Exclusion of the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u295	Thank you. Mrs. Brunscoll. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Godec. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Clown. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Saiovic. [[He's quitting.]] An apron. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Brultz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u296	When I get home, I'll say good morning and there'll be a useless day behind me. The lectures by Mr Visionak and many others have not opened the horizon for me today. Give 1,000 euros to a worker in Mura to survive, not buy a car and subsidize the rent to young people, not force them to buy apartments and pay [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u297	Thank you. Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u298	Thank you very much. I believe that the proposed measures, which help in some way also to solve the problem of buying a new car, especially those driving with 10 years of age or older, are also polluting the environment too, and they also point out that such cars are also questionablely safe, are also consumer. Such cars are provided with some common services, so that I do not speak annual technical checks and so on. If this is possible, a little incentive to replace this car with a small, environmentally friendly car, which also helps 25,000 people who are employed in the Slovenian automotive industry, is not a waste of money, even if experience says that through taxes resulting from the sale of this additional number of cars, this subsidy is actually returned to the budget. It also encouraged me to take note of this, this obvious letter from Cveta Zalokar from the party Really about these losses by Slovenian companies. None of these companies, at least I don't know any that would show a loss of business. This loss, or this financial result, results from their investments because they are several times lower due to market values. But they're not a few times lower because of real things. Look, the Slovenian oil company Petrol is worth as much today as it was worth, I'm actually speaking as it was worth a year ago. No less. And probably not much more. But her price has changed four times. This does not mean that this is a real loss, it is a method of accounting that must be recorded in the book, which is the current market value. Therefore, to say that this title creates a loss is actually ridiculous, bureaucratic and has nothing to do with actual value. And these are good Slovenian companies, all of which have been listed, both Luka Koper and Intereuropa, as well as Petrol, which could still be listed. These are good Slovenian companies, but their leadership has been criminalized and discredited by political motives. To replace the leadership. No evidence, no everything. There's a stamp against the administration in Luka Koper before the audit. At least wait for the audit first, make a nuisance that there will be something bad in the audit and then you may have a motive to discredit and withdraw the first person, not on the basis of letters from Members or Members, on the basis of the guarantees of the union of a union.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u299	Thank you. Does Mrs. Radic want to speak as a representative of the government? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Blackach as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u300	Thank you very much. I had previously forgotten to mention another matter raised by the representative of the Government in housing, that instead of what is proposed in this law, the state will invest €21 million in the renovation of public buildings and provide for investments in tourism infrastructure of €25 million. I don't know what this has to do with this marriage. It is normal to expect that, in addition to promoting private spending, which has effects both in the environment and in other areas, the country will also encourage public investment in these situations, particularly those that contribute to improving the environment and investment in public infrastructure. The problem is that, unfortunately, these investments are understated and that there has been a significant decrease in funds for these purposes in the balance sheet, even though there has been talk of how these funds and these investments will increase. Ms Cveta Zalokar Orazem said that they do not support this law because they do not support the social situation or because those who are in a poor social situation have no advantage. This third article speaks very clearly about this and says, "A young family has the advantage of a young family in a poor social situation." It was also said by Mr Franc Yuri, why not EUR 2,000. As far as I am concerned, it is not a problem, but it is necessary to release this law into further legislative procedure, not today to vote that it is not suitable for further consideration. And you will have every opportunity to make an amendment and vote on this amendment, because you have a majority. However, I said that there was a significant relationship between the public financial effects and what this law entails in relation to the estimated value of this car, whose purchase is intended to be encouraged. We do not want to promote the purchase of extremely expensive vehicles by means of this law. We want to ensure that undisputed vehicles are bought and that more than 10 years old vehicles are decommissioned at the same time, so that the value of this vehicle is also paid at the same time, in addition to this 1,000 euro subsidy. According to our assessment, this would be an impulse and an additional incentive in addition to those measures that traders have already been forced to introduce even when they were lowering the prices of these vehicles, and in addition to those which they received from other countries' actions, which would help to increase this sales in Slovenia as well. This would increase public finances and, of course, increase spending on other segments. However, this measure is also implicitly important in relation to those countries which have already adopted such measures. And one of the countries that adopted such a measure has a factory in the Republic of Slovenia and through its subsidies ensures that workers in this factory are employed by Slovenian workers. Regarding the rent subsidy, Mr Brulc said that it would be preferable to introduce rental subsidies because they are too high, on page 57 of the government's material. As news, it says, it's with 1. 1. 2009 you see, this has also been accepted by the previous government - an easy rental in the private sector, as it is possible to obtain a subsidy to a market rent for all non-profit renters who meet the conditions for renting a non-profit apartment, and because of the lack of such apartments they cannot rent and are forced to rent apartments on the free market. But I believe a lot of mayors don't even know that. The law was adopted in the middle of the previous year with effect from 1 January this year and allows for the subsidisation of rents even in commercial dwellings in cases where non-profit rentals in a particular area on the market are not sufficient, even up to 80% of the non-profit rent. Now, of course, the mayors will be angry because your citizens will hear this and come in on Monday with a role for this subsidy. You're the only one who challenged me, and I had to say it publicly. So much for that. Thus, it was not the purpose of this law to resolve housing policy in the Republic of Slovenia, but it was intended to encourage consumption, which is not intended for itself, but also environmental effects, as far as vehicles are concerned. And on the other hand, it was intended to give an impulse in an area where there is also a spasm, where everything has stopped and where people do not know how to go forward and how to go back. Moreover, it is not relevant that in the first quarter of 2009, 41% less building permits were issued for housing and housing than in the first quarter of 2008. I think that this is a worrying information and that the Minister responsible for this area, Mr Erjavec, should sit here and also say in this debate how and how the measures will turn these negative trends in a different direction. Apparently, they won't turn their backs on themselves. For this reason, we, in addition to these two measures in this Act, among those 68 measures, have also proposed a number of other measures to be taken to ensure that this area is sufficiently relaxed and that people, where they have ambition to build, are limited for such or other reasons, in these circumstances, when it is very important to release it as soon as possible, can do so. We know that, despite the changes to the building law that have been made in the previous term, this law and, above all, the sub-laws continue to hamper the faster acquisition of permits in certain areas of construction. On the other hand, we know that we have listened to this meeting on questions sent and initiatives that the Spatial Planning Act, although amended in the previous mandate, is a very large obstacle to the speedy adoption of municipal spatial plans, which are the basis for placing any facility, including housing, in space. All of this is even more important in these situations, and I think that those responsible should think about it and take appropriate measures as soon as possible. It is also, of course, measures that do not need to be taken and dealt with in the National Assembly. In the vast majority, these are measures that can be taken through the amendment of sub-laws, regulations, orders and so on, in some cases also at the level of the decisions of the Government. In response to these two measures, the Government has written in this paper that, although the point of Housing Policy is written, what is written on the following eight pages in relation to the so-called housing policy is what we wrote in one sentence in our proposals. And this is an effective and rational management of state property, both with housing and with all other immovable property. It says here in a long and wide way that the Government adopted certain decisions on 175 military apartments on 7 May. On 7 May, watch out, it was apparently only after April 24, when the Slovenian Democratic Party's expert council adopted these measures and forwarded them to the public and to the government. These 175 apartments, ladies and gentlemen, will not save the collapse of the sale of apartments, not the cramp in the construction of dwellings, nor the contraction in the acquisition of building permits, but will not, above all, save the country's housing policy. Last May, in the National Assembly, I asked the former Minister a question or an initiative on this property. And you see, things haven't changed much since then. At that time, I suggested that, in all cases, property that is long-term irrelevant to the Slovenian Army or to state authorities, it should be transferred to local communities or leased to non-profit communities, where there is no such interest, to be sold as soon as possible. I also wrote that I do not think that it will take more than three months to implement this initiative. Apparently, it's going to take more than three months. Because what was accepted for these 150 apartments will take place sometime by November of this year. However, this is not a solution. I think that these are too important issues that cannot be discussed at the level of governance with the immovable property of a country that we all agree should be managed more responsibly and in a more appropriate manner. Look, at that press conference made by the Minister of Defence with three members of the Social Democrats, by the way, it wasn't a populist move not to be in the wrong, it was said that with each empty apartment there were 1,000 euros per year, 500 of them, and 130 of them will be transferred to the Housing Fund. 500 000 euros will explode every year, in the 18 years since they were empty, 9 million euros, as much as 130 of these apartments are worth. 130 of them blew up. It applies to the whole period back, since 1991. However, even now in the way these things have been accepted and, as they have stood up, I firmly believe that we will be discussing this subject again in three years, which is bad. It is bad because, on the one hand, the government says it supports investments in the public sphere, and on the other hand, we have heard not only stoppages, but also problems, even criminalisation of the construction of a new police building, czech, former minister building a police building without a call for proposals, and the rent for this building will be substantially increased. While building this building for the police, the Advisory and Management Society, which is 100% owned by the State, is indeed the Ministry of Finance and will be the tenant of this building, whose owner will become when the last lease is paid, the Ministry of the Interior. It was said that this contract would have to be terminated if it was not found to be null and void. Thus, the state will cancel its own contract, will do itself harm, while the Ministry of the Interior is now operating in inappropriate twenty-twenty locations, and that this rent, without the State being in the final stage when this lease is terminated, is not having any of it because it is going to zero. This was done before 2004, and it will obviously do so from now on, because before 2004, you did so. The facility, which was issued by the Ministry of Defence, was sold to a private person who arranged it and leased it back to the state. The country has been paying rent for eight years, and through this rent, it has already paid off the value of this building, renovated, and then bought it back. She paid for it twice. In this case, the state is building for the state and the facility is from the state. Even now that he's in construction. This facility is not privately owned, it is built by the DSU, so that the burden of this construction does not go into debt. That's the whole story. But it was necessary to criminalize the former minister, it was necessary to make a big "rom pom pom", a big noise, as in the case of the criminalisation of Luke, who is a successful, world-oriented company to which we can all be proud. And if anyone has problems with individual members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, let these problems be handled individually. It is not at this point that it destroys what is healthy and good in the Slovenian economy. And if you don't like any director in any place, now you have all the leverage to replace. But not in such a way, a dirty way. To begin with the replacement of the president of the district court in Cyprus, then the replacement of the chief of police in Cyprus, after "when the bajaga" happens, an investigation based on nothing, based on anonymous reports. This is not good, Luka is not any company, Luka is a Slovenian window into the world. And the window that got dirty won't be clear for a long time. Under this law, for which purpose, I must say, even for the greatest skeptics, it was good. He wasn't bad, by all accounts. I firmly believe that if it were adopted, it would also have favourable public financial effects for the budget, although it is necessary to recognise that this was not its basic purpose. Its primary purpose was to encourage consumption where it has needlessly stalled, to do something useful for the environment, and to encourage many who are also working to get to their own home at that time. Whether they are building or helping themselves with the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia by renting a loan and buying one of his apartments to help them on this path and thus allowing the relaxation of this spasm, which also happened in this sphere, not only in the financial sphere. We have not made any illusions to save through this law the entire housing policy in the Republic of Slovenia - far from it. For this reason, we support the implementation of all other measures, which have already been designed in the past, and we expect that new ones, which we believe are essential, will also be adopted, which should allow for the faster construction of apartments that can be rented. Here too we agree that the rental market in Slovenia is too weak, that this fund needs to be strengthened and that a more normal situation in this area needs to be established through these mechanisms. However, it is a process that goes beyond one mandate, and it is a process that is not adopted by such intervention laws, but requires one sound, long-term housing policy, if possible unification in the National Assembly, because it is then a fundamental condition for its implementation. The purpose of this Act was, in particular, to allow the promotion of these activities in the short term, at a time when there is no investment activity or investment activities in all areas, on the one hand, and on the other hand to resolve the issues that they or they intend to resolve in the coming days and months. The data on 41% less construction permits than in the comparable period last year is alarming. For this reason, we believe that the subsidy of EUR 10 000 per unit is an appropriate measure, as is the case with the car, where it is a replacement of the old environmentally friendly vehicles spent in the amount of EUR 1000 per vehicle. For this reason, I suggest you do not press the counter button, but release this law into further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u301	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wants to discuss it. [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the National Assembly, today in the framework of the vote, which is in half an hour, at 23.15. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue by voting in half an hour, which is at 11:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u302	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the adjourned meeting and move on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the operation of their voting device, and the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a decision concerning a pact to improve the economic and social situation in Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a decision on a package of measures to improve the economic social situation in Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Please apply for explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. Janez Janša has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u303	Thank you for your word. We're going to vote on a strange decision. We expected the government coalition to support at least some of these measures in order to make the decision different. Last but not least because the opposition, especially the Slovenian Democratic Party, has supported precisely the government's proposed measures in the National Assembly to respond to the challenges of the economic crisis over the past six months. We have just supported all the laws that have been proposed. The problem arose after six months because a number of measures were not proposed. And after we have been accompanying an empty April session here in the National Assembly, without a single strategic response to the economic crisis, we have presented a package of our actions. We expected the government, as we have done, to cut through these measures, to judge who are good and who may be too quick for them, could be bad, but that did not happen. You rejected all eighty measures in the package. The five laws that have been drawn up, where all financial consequences are identified, and are certainly, at least in most cases, positive for the current situation, the government coalition has put them in line, placed them all on the agenda for one day and are now likely to be eliminated after a rapid voting procedure, declared unfit for further consideration. We are somewhat disappointed by such an approach. There's a lot of arrogance in it. We do not think that this is the right approach for these times, especially since we have a good cooperation practice in the previous mandate when it comes to some key structural reforms. Today, the government coalition has transformed its entire-day debate into an opposition. Instead of trying to find solutions, he criticizes her. Suddenly, the former government was to blame for the situation as it is now. If it calms someone down, we can sign that we're guilty of everything, but you can finally take action. Because our future will depend on how the current government works. This does not depend on how the previous governments functioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u304	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present and 38 votes against 29. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the Council of State has taken a decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the termination of item 2 of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. Excuse me. Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. Marjan Bezjak has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u305	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we will be happy to support the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons from this very point of view, because we want to help the Slovenian economy, because we consider it not only to be the case - we know that this law for the Slovenian economy would be much better than it is now in this situation. Why are we deciding and entering this law? Because we know, we want and we can. That is why we have proposed this law. Because we don't care because we live and create in this country, we don't care at the Slovenian Democratic Party what happens to Slovenia in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u306	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 41. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda - with the first reading of the Amendment Bill and the completion of the Income Act. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act is appropriate for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr. Likar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u307	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will vote in favour of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act because we want the economy to be burdened, especially by small entrepreneurs, who can have a significant impact on the recovery of economic growth in this economic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u308	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 41. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda - first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act is suitable for further consideration. Mag. Mr Andrej Vizjak explained the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u309	Thank you so much for saying that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u310	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u311	Thank you so much for saying that. The bearable solution to this proposal is for overpaid VAT to be returned to businesses in advance and for this solution to take effect immediately. The measure is very important and improves the liquidity position of companies. It provides them with more liquid assets, their assets. This proposal has been in the parliamentary procedure for the third time. And every time he found himself before that, the government promised [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u312	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u313	by releasing the credit crunch provided this liquid money to businesses through the relaunching of the credit activity of the banking sector. [[...]] None of this happened. The credit crunch is even stronger than it used to be, so this measure is even more necessary than it used to be. We have also upgraded this measure with others, by means of a measure to extend the payment deadlines and to extend the payment non-discipline to the principle of return or the principle of VAT payment after a paid realization to I, the distinguished President, I say, because I see that it is more hospitable there. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u314	Please be at peace in the hall, please sit down and listen to the speaker. That's what every speaker deserves. And I'm asking you to really respect some minimum order in this room. Thank you very much. Please continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u315	The resolution of this amendment to the VAT law also offers a solution whereby, in particular, those companies that suffer the consequences of the suspension of payment deadlines would pay value added tax when they receive payment for the invoice, not when they issue an invoice. This would be very helpful in this situation when payment deadlines are extended and when these payments are suspended. This principle would also help a wide range of companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which face liquidity problems, which are also due to credit crunches. We also propose a reduced VAT rate for certain services. By doing so, we want to make these services cheap, bring them closer to people and, even in this way, perhaps contribute to mitigating the consequences of the crisis. Solutions are worth the effort. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support them. I hope there's someone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u316	Procedurally, Mr. Cuckati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u317	There's no vote on my town list, even though the light is on fire. There's a light on the other buttons when I vote, but I'm not on the list. I'm asking the technical services to review this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u318	We're adjourning the voting process in five minutes. Then there's an explanation for Bogdan Barovic's voice, but we need to check it out. At Mrs. Nigga's, too. We'll take a look around. Five minutes off to check it out. Stay in the hall, because we'll proceed immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u319	Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is found that the voting apparatus are in operation and that we can continue to vote. He now has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u320	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian National Party, we will adopt a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, we will confirm it, we will accept it. Why? We have talked about it many times, and with the possibility of a shorter time to pay the overpaid value added tax, we have already agreed on many occasions. Another time. We agreed that it would be right if it already applied immediately. Third time. Once again, I would like to point out that I understand that the financial and liquidity policy or the situation of this country at this point is just as it is in local communities when we are dealing with financial problems through rebalancies. And yet, maybe it would be an additional source. And for the fourth time, what convinced the Slovenian National Party that we will support this law is a statement in the Government's explanation, which says: "The government considers the proposal not acceptable because it significantly shortens the time to control VAT accounts, especially the control of the most risky taxpayers involved in tax wheel frauds". Of course, it is a horror that we will not be able, or have to pay, taxes that are actually property of those who have been overpaid by a law in favour of honest, justifiable recipients of the value-added tax, to give in to fraud and to be able to monitor fraud. Of course it is puzzled with logic, it is incomprehensible - at least to a normal person, that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u321	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u322	Swindlers beat justice. [[...]] Understand this, for it is written as it is written. And if we accept this, then we will say, "Lords of cheaters; whom we all know they are, or of many they are known; work in your own way. We, in the legislative branch of power, support you by not accepting the proposed law." The Slovenian national party will never call it that! That's why it's going to be for the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u323	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 41. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on Public Finance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal: The proposal for a law on amendments to the Public Finance Act is suitable for further consideration. Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Tanko, please. And Mr. Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u324	Thank you so much for saying that. The government and the coalition objected to the argument that they had financial consequences to the package of measures and to all the laws put by the parliamentary group into the legislative procedure. This law is the only one in this package that has no financial implications. And I can only find that both the coalition and the government in this case are opposed only because the law does not have financial implications. The law proposed provides for simplifications in the business of businesses, small entrepreneurs. The law is harmonised and written on the basis of the requirements of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship in 2008. In doing so, I would like to remind you that the Government, when providing its materials, on pages 53 and 54, has also justified and cited 41 measures, including the first measure: simplification of the system of payment of taxes and other compulsory duties. We're a little embarrassed. Exactly what the Government proposes as a first step, and that is what we have proposed and is in line with the requirements of Slovenian craftsmanship, exactly what the Government opposes, even though it has written among its principles in the same material, that it must first think of small, that it is necessary to have everything in one place and that every thing must be done only once. Nor does the Government attach to its principles, and I must say that I see no other reason and no other justification than that the law has been proposed by the wrong parliamentary group. When I asked the Minister if this was recorded in another law which he had mentioned, let's say in the Tax Procedure Act, this same proposal, he said that there too would be opposition. This coalition power, coalition arrogance and opposition are proven, in fact, to everything we propose. I believe that, among these proposals, there are a number of laws, all of them are such and a number of measures that deserve support, which deserve to be thought through, as well as the wording, as a follow-up measure, and to be adopted by law. Our Group of Members will support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u326	Thank you, Mr. President. Since I have clearly not understood enough in my presentation of the Slovenian National Party's views, I will now briefly repeat our position and at the same time express our readiness to vote in favour of this proposal. We accept this proposal because we think it is practical and useful for entrepreneurs, so the proposal that, if this law were adopted, independent entrepreneurs and legal persons could simply make payments for public financial benefits and contributions. We believe that it would be useful, and we also expect the Government, to keep this in mind and at least in the near future, when these tensions give way a little bit, and when it comes, let us hope, at least once to one cooperative other dialogue, as it is today, to take this into account and thereby to enact such well-intentioned proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u327	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 42. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Law on Economic Aid during the economic crisis by promoting private consumption. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: The proposal for an economic aid law during the economic crisis by promoting private consumption is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u328	We will, of course, support this law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. As with other laws and other measures that we have discussed today, there is a fundamental conceptual difference in the approach between us and the Government. While we consider or assess that the key to accelerating economic growth, and thus to increased inflows to the state budget, is to reduce the burden on both the economy and the population and to reduce taxes, the Government sees the key to an increase. There has been an increase in excise duties at an abnormal rate, so that gasoline is now more expensive than in neighbouring countries, say Austria. The load of vinjets increases six times. The current price of a six-month-old becomes the price of one month, with the government forecasting even a smaller inflow to the budget. New taxes are being forecast, such as the new tax on motor vehicles, which, according to our assessment, will not accelerate economic activities, will reduce them, and will also reduce inflows to the budget. The law we are proposing is good with several aspects. On the one hand, it allows the replacement of old, worn-out, environmentally-friendly cars over 10 years old for environmentally friendly cars. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u329	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u330	On the other hand, it provides support to all those who intend to resolve the housing issue themselves, with a subsidy of EUR 10,000. It is not negligible that the number of construction permits in the first quarter of this year fell by 41% compared to the first quarter of last year. We believe that with these measures, as other countries' experiences have shown, despite the fact that some public financial outflow, on the other hand, by increasing consumption, the net financial impact of the state budget has been even higher by increasing these activities. There would be a significant increase in inflows to the budget than inflows from it, not least showing the experience of all those countries that have already implemented similar measures in recent months. For this reason, we assess that these measures are good, that they are meaningfully supported and that we will, of course, support this decision on the follow-up procedure of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-05-22-SDZ5-Izredna-10.ana.u331	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 44. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. Thank you very much. Good night and good bye!
