ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 12th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Matjaž Zanoškar, Franc Bogovič, Zvonko Černač from 3 p.m. to 3 p.m., Anton Kampus and Franco Juri until 4 p.m. I invited the President of the Government of Borut Pahor to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the 25th item of the agenda, the Ombudsman to the 28th item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to the 33rd item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda by reference to Session 4. 12. 2009 We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The SDS Group proposes to withdraw from the agenda of the 12th meeting of the National Assembly the proposal for a law amending the Law on Secret Data, the reduced procedure [[EPA 691-V]] . You received the proposal by letter 8. 12. 2009 Would the representatives of the motions be willing to withdraw? Please, Mr. Jože Tanko, SDS task force.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. As you have already announced, the Group proposes to withdraw this item from the agenda mainly because it is not a minor change, which could be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, but rather an important systemic change, since it is a matter of transferring verification, managing and issuing permits to work with classified information from the police, which is an independent expert body, a political body, that is, the Ministry of the Interior or the Cabinet of the Ministry. We must stress that working with classified information is a very important issue in terms of the safety of citizens and citizens, and it is right that such matters are managed by those who are completely independent and are not politically subordinate. In this case, the Ministry of the Interior, specifically the Minister of the Interior and its Secretary-General, who are both politically appointed, will manage these measures with the database. This means that there will also be political control over this work, which, I would say, under the circumstances today also means political pressure and political control of other actors in the political process or in the political functioning of Slovenia. Similarly, the amendment of the Police Act, even in that case it is not a minor change, it is a major change and both changes constitute a major overhaul in this area. On the one hand, this power of decision is transferred to the Ministry, and on the other hand, in this particular Ministry, we are witnessing that the Minister does not wish to hand over certain records to an investigative commission investigating an increase in the number of so-called deleted. In short, this is obviously going completely into this context, so that this independent control and independent work will be completely lost and everything will be transferred to the body that decides and acts exclusively politically. I believe that these changes, which are both in the Secret Data Act and subsequently in the Police Act, need to be dealt with in a different way, a broader debate is needed, and harmonisation is needed. Therefore, we also propose that this specific law withdraw from the agenda and that the police reform and the reform of the internal ministry [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] When necessary, we shall consider it together and in a different way. [[...]] This is said to be the case, with greater involvement of both policies in the National Assembly and, if necessary, other public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Representatives of the parliamentary groups, on behalf of the SDS Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u4	Thank you very much. The Secret Data Act, which we propose to withdraw, is a very sensitive area of work. The current situation in Slovenia is that we have a national authority, this is the Office for the Protection of Secret Data, the Owl checks for its personnel separately, the Ministry of Defence checks for its personnel separately and this is also true for the police. The Ministry of the Interior shall carry out these tasks for all other State bodies. In the European Union, you will not see one country alone, I stress, one country where the police would not carry out checks on the issue of secret information licences for themselves. As with the appointment of the Director-General of Police, where we have the only Estonian model, and never otherwise, we are moving on to a unique model here, which has tremendous consequences. Look out! 200 to 300 people have been screened every year by the police. They're not just police employees, they're also those involved in the "undercover" activity. There are also those who represent secret police co-workers. All of these are categories checked by the police in order to be able to carry out their tasks as constructively as possible in the area where they are required to do so. So in Slovenia, we are moving through this bill to something that has no comparison in Europe. And if the police are doing these tasks for themselves today, they should be carrying out these tasks, as proposed by the law tomorrow, by the Ministry of the Interior. Moreover, from the Directorate of Police and other security tasks, where this area is today, it passes on information that is coming, these matters are going to the Cabinet or to the General Secretariat. At the head of the General Secretariat is the visible policy of the LDS, I stress the visible policy of the LDS. Minister, one way or another, we know which political option she belongs to. There is no reason for these people, who are politicians, to be given any opportunity to look into classified information. But it's the most sensitive classified information. It would therefore be right for the coalition, before continuing this procedure, to remove this matter from the agenda, to go to bed 30 times and to bring the matter to a January session and to make a European normal move that will not be different from that in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to explain its voice? He doesn't want to. I am closing the debate on the withdrawal proposal and moving on to a decision. Members and Members, please check your voting devices. We decide on the proposal to withdraw that agenda item. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. The SDS Group proposes to the assembly that the 14th Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008, EPA 512-V be withdrawn from the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the proposal by letter of 11. 12. 2009 Would you like to speak to the motioners? Please, Mr. Jože Tanko, SDS task force.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u6	Thank you very much. We propose the withdrawal of this agenda item solely because the coalition in the National Assembly has misused the Rules of Procedure and has concluded this point by substantiating the report in a non-business manner, which should accompany this point and also the conclusions or recommendations adopted. I would like to point out that this report has been properly dealt with by the Commission already in October and that a recommendation has not been adopted there due in particular to the behaviour of the coalition members of the Commission. That is also why the President of this Commission gave the report in the same way as was correctly summarised after that event at the meeting. I would point out, however, that we have also dealt with this point several times at the College of the President of the National Assembly and, lastly, at the Business Commission, of course, in the presence of the President of the National Assembly, the Secretary-General and all those necessary in this Secretariat for the holding of meetings. It was agreed that before the continuation of this point, a business commission would meet and examine how to deal with the matter further - unanimously, without commenting to anyone at this meeting of the business commission. However, the coalition members of the Commission for petitions in a spirit of co-operation requested a meeting, held a meeting; without members of the opposition groups being members of the opposition groups, these are the three members who have informed them that they have called the meeting; and they have passed through the President of this Commission. In short, it was a way for not all members of the Commission to be properly informed of the continuation of this meeting. In doing so, I would like to stress in particular that this report is being considered at a time when we have also solemnly marked the day of human rights. And as a mockery of this, you have placed this point on the agenda at the time when we mark it, but you have performed in a way that does not have a basis in the Rules of Procedure and is also totally contrary to what this point is meant to address, that is to say, in accordance with human rights and those who are members of this Commission are also affected. We therefore propose that this item be withdrawn from the agenda of this meeting, that the situation be examined and that, once the conditions for consideration have been met, it also be placed on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Yeah. On behalf of the SDS Group, Branko Marinič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! On the basis of the applicant's explanation, I believe that it was sufficiently clear that we were doing exactly what should be done in the State Council at the very large annual report of the Ombudsman for 2008. This is a reference to an urgent meeting which has been convened over all the applicable provisions for our work. I am a member of this commission myself, and it was all happening on November 20th so fast, so fast, so connected between the coalition partners, that I did not find out in time that this commission had been convened; I only found out when I was on my way home. I wonder, of course, whether we are not all Members and Members of the National Assembly, because I believe that the other members have been informed of the convening of the urgent meeting, but it was not important that the members of the opposition species be informed accordingly. I was alone that day in the National Assembly, and someone could have informed me in time, in a way that is a practice. I'm afraid that didn't happen. And I regret that in such cases, when it comes to such a sensitive topic as the Ombudsman's report for 2008, we are serving something that is not justified by those who have used such a reference to an emergency meeting. I believe that this is a real violation of fundamental human rights, because the civil servants of the National Assembly, i.e. the professional cadre responsible for citing, have undoubtedly experienced a violation of their fundamental rights, not only from the Convention, but also from the Labour Relations Act, because people have been tempted to do something that is not good and is questionable whether it is in accordance with the applicable provisions governing the convening of such an urgent meeting. As it is said, in the SDS Group we oppose the treatment and propose the withdrawal of the 28th item from the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS Group, Anton Anderlich will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u10	Respectable. We will not support this proposal in the Liberal Democracy Club. It is neither the time nor the place to explain any incorrect indications that have been made both in the request for the postponement of this item of the agenda or the failure to place it on the agenda and the reasons why it is necessary to do so on behalf of the Group of Members. It is more than obvious that Members and Members cannot take the privilege of considering or not considering something that another independent independent institution in this country imposes on us by law. We got the 2008 report. It would be unacceptable to underestimate the public, both those concerned by the findings and those who do not want to accept that the report can also be something that does not please the public, but comes from those responsible in that country and makes certain recommendations to the institutions to comply with the rules in that country and with the general principles that this country has indisputably enshrined in its regulation when it comes to respect for human rights and the like. Nobody has that privilege. Whether it is appropriate to postpone the 2008 report and the recommendations that should already be implemented or implemented as soon as possible to 2010, and we do not want to deal with this. Even more so, because a whole series of recommendations are addressed to us, the legislature is aware of the legislator's authority to look at what is what, because it is necessary to improve at the normative level, so that some things do not come to the attention of the Ombudsman. Who is he - or some individual, some president, the president of the working body can say, and I'm not going to do that. Not in the Rules of Procedure, not in the Constitution, you will not find this provision anywhere, on the contrary! All that is prescribed is in the way that we owe it, whether it is written or not, to do what is our mission. Our mission is also to address this report, which is possible for someone who was still in power in the previous year, in which part even after it is incorrect, but things need to be regulated. We are in favour of addressing the report and also adopting recommendations relating both to the National Assembly and to the other institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SD Group of Members, Mag. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Social Democrats' Group is opposed to the proposal to withdraw its consideration of the Ombudsman's report. The Law on the Ombudsman requires the Ombudsman to forward the report for the past year, and the National Assembly to consider the report at its first session in autumn. The initiation of the examination of the report was linked to the interruption. However, we have adopted the following provision, which has been adopted in the news that 135 recommendations have also been made in the Ombudsman's report. And here there was a major manipulation by the President of the Commission, who freely passed and gravely violated the Commission and did not prepare a report for the President of the National Assembly so that the report could be considered at the meeting of the National Assembly. The hearing was concluded on the working body, we have appointed the rapporteur, this is the President of the Commission, and it has been specifically agreed that she will find such a formulation that business conditions will be met. She later changed her mind and said that this had not been done, but let me remind you that the Business Commission in 2005 gave an explanation on 14 April 2005 of Rule 272 of the Rules of Procedure, where she also resolved the issue that if the working body had not taken any decision that the point could be considered at the meeting of the National Assembly, the working body must do so. The President placed the item on the agenda of the regular meeting on 30 October, then recalled the call and on the same day, we sent a request from the Member and Members from the position to convene an urgent meeting in order to allow the report to be considered. The President did not convene an emergency meeting during the business term, and this second session, which is that some of them spoke of not knowing anything about it, because I do not know if they are raising any mail from the mailboxes at all, but anyhow, that is to say that some of them said they did not know about it, was convened by the Vice-President of the Committee, the meeting was held, the recommendation adopted, and in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the item fulfils the conditions for inclusion in the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Zares Group, Flower Zalokar Orazem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello to you all. In the Group of Members, we really believe that it is high time for the Ombudsman's report to be considered by the National Assembly at its meeting in December, after we know that the Ombudsman has correctly submitted her report to our esteemed assembly before the summer holidays. I think it is extremely rude, inappropriate to delay our consideration of this report. Finally, no one has the right, I will say, to reduce in some way 135 proposals, the decisions that the Ombudsman has drawn up in her report for the National Assembly. In this case, I think it is solely a matter of politicising the work of such an independent institution as the Ombudsman's Institute, that it wishes to reduce proposals in some way to those whom, in this case, the Presidents of the Commission of Mrs Irgle likes - or its parties - and to those conclusions which do not like them. We certainly do not believe that there are any reasons for withdrawing this point from the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly, that the meeting of the Commission, in the absence of the President, has been convened in full and also carried out in an appropriate and fully commercially correct manner, so we do not see any reason for withdrawing this point, as proposed today. I think it is time for this report of the National Assembly to consider taking it seriously, with the recommendations set out in the report, all the rest is politicisation and delaying with a specific one, I will say, with the aim of not having such a hearing in the National Assembly. That is why we will not support the proposal, but in some ways we are also outraged at the work of some of the presidents of the working bodies, especially those who come from the types of SDS party who in some way have taken on substantially greater rights and usurp the work of the individual committees and commissions they run, and, of course, have in some way prevented the proper work of the National Assembly. No wonder the National Assembly has enjoyed the lowest reputation in recent months. It's obvious it's for some political parties. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u15	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u16	Clearly, this is of interest to some political parties who do not want the National Assembly to have a greater reputation and, in this context, not to address the report is such a content.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We're voting. I conclude the debate on the withdrawal proposal. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. We are moving on to the consideration of proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda be extended by the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians outside the borders, the reduced procedure, EPA 510-V, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on Income, the second reading, EPA 535-V and the draft law on supplementing the Law on the Protection Supplement, the reduced procedure, EPA 633-V. You received the proposal by letter 10. 12. 2009 In this regard, do representatives of the parliamentary groups want to speak? They don't want to. That is why I am concluding the debate and moving on to a decision. We decide on the proposal to expand the agenda by proposing a law on amendments and additions to the Act on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians outside the borders, within the framework of the shorter procedure. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 2. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider this point as the 25th point in v, Tuesday 15. 12th, 2009 after the final vote. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by means of a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, the second dealing. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement is not adopted. The assembly will treat this point as a 25b point on Tuesday 15. 12., [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? Excuse me! Did I say he wasn't accepted? I'm sorry it was adopted. This assembly will consider this point to be 25b on Tuesday, 15. 12, after the final vote. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by means of a proposal for a law supplementing the Protection Supplement Act. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. This assembly will consider this point as the 25th c point on Tuesday, 15. 12. 2009, after the final vote. Following the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, I propose that the agenda be extended also by examining the conclusion of the termination of the term of office of the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the proposal by letter of 11.12.2009. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? They don't want to. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 1. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for extension has been adopted. The assembly will consider this item as the 32nd item today after the end of the vote on the agenda. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Group of 24 Members and Members proposed that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider, following a reduced procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of the Status of Citizens of Other States, the Successors of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, EPA 735-5, and the Proposal for a Law on Supplements and Amendments to the Police Act, EPA 749-5. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that request will be treated by the assembly as paragraph 26a of the agenda on Tuesday, 15. 12. 2009, after the final vote. We are moving on to the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference, as well as amendments and amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 1. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 12th meeting of the assembly has been set. We move on to the 32nd A-point of the agenda - the conclusion of the suspension of the mandate of the State Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. On 10.12.2009, Member Damian Perne informed the National Assembly of his resignation. You have received a statement of resignation. I note that, as of today, under Article 9 of the Law on Members, his term of office has ceased. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask the National Assembly to notify which candidate will become a Member for the remainder of the term of office, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Council of Ministers will draw up a report and propose approval of the mandate and report on its findings to the assembly. Allow me, on behalf of all of us, to thank my fellow Member, Damien Pernett, for my work so far and to wish him much success in the future in another institution. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with questions from Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u18	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! Please take your seats. I also ask ministers and ministers. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - ON THE QUESTIONS OF THE POSITIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 40 questions from the Member States in writing within the deadline. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is asked by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, Minister or Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who asks a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Karl Viktor Erjavec - Minister of Environment and Space, Gregor Golobič - Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr. Igor Lukšič - Minister of Education and Sport, Dr. Milan Pogačnik - Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food from 17:00 onwards, and Dr. Boštjan Žekš - Minister without a source responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The question will be asked first by Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! Mr. Prime Minister! I ask you whether you are aware that the 1918 date is in fact the only way to solve the Slovenian national territory. The fact is, if we're going to make an excuse at 25. 6. 1991, it may happen to us that gentlemen from other former parts of Yugoslavia hang what we have already been hanged in Belgrade, that it is a secession from Yugoslavia and not the breakup of Yugoslavia. So I ask you: How can you not be aware of what the invaders were aware of in 1941 when they occupied Slovenia? Here I have an original map published by Italy, a map of the Independent State of Croatia in 1942. Here, the invaders Italians, Germans and Hungarians occupied only parts of the Slovenian national territory, while the rest were left to their nearest and last-minute functioning ally, the Independent State of Croatia. I wonder why your so-called legal experts don't know this map? Why do gentlemen consistently deny the historical facts on which Slovenian statehood is based even in the future, if we take into account? Why does this gentleman refuse to pay attention, or maybe he doesn't? The fact is that our legal experts base all their knowledge on some former socialist, Marxist model of law, which has nothing to do with real European law. In Europe it is a legal requirement of statehood and statehood had all the Slovenian Crohnian countries. On this basis, we should take into account and make a starting point for our future statehood. And I ask you: Will you send gentlemen from law school to any additional education? It might be good to do this additional education at the level of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I ask you, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u21	Your Honor! Not for the first time, not for the last time, are we concerned with resolving relations with the Republic of Croatia as regards the establishment of a border. I'd like to remind you of some facts. By adopting the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia of 25 June 1991, the Republic of Slovenia, as regards the border with the Republic of Croatia in the second section, provided that the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia was to be extended to the SFRJ. In addition, the Declaration of Independence of 25 June 1991 provides that the inviolability of existing external and internal borders should be respected when regulating future relations in the former Yugoslavia. Both the Declaration and the Basic Constitutional Charter constitute, Mr Member, the foundation of Slovenian statehood. The arbitration panel of the conference in Yugoslavia also confirmed that, on the basis of the principle of "uterine posidetis" and the principle of the preservation of the territorial "status quo", administrative borders between the republics of the former SFRJ become their external borders with their independence. Accordingly, the relevant date for determining the border situation between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia is 25 June 1991. Thus, a position was adopted between the two governments when they met in Briony a few years ago. And expecting this to help reduce the incidents caused by non-definition, they redefined June 25th as the starting point for establishing a border. Dear Mr Jelinčič, I propose that we maintain a consensus on the cut-off date on 25 June 1991. Even the profession has not yet had a different view. And I don't understand if I may add, why would 1918 be so attractive? The Rapal Treaty, which was based on St. Germaine's contract, took a quarter of our current state. I suggest that we do not go far back to the history of the dates which, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Government, are valid and fairly defined by an arbitration agreement as proposed - why should we go from the cut date that is agreed to to to a date that is not at all attractive?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u22	Mr. Jelinčič, would you like to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u23	Mr. Prime Minister, you have shown an eclectic ignorance of history. In fact, it is necessary to know that the entire Slovenian national territory entered the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, Slovenes, renamed the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1929. The Rapal Agreement was concluded in 1920. For two years, the entire Slovenian national space was an integral part of the later Kingdom of Yugoslavia. And so don't talk about that date like I don't know what it is. You're talking about things that are 25. 6. 1991 cut date. At that time, we need to know that the Republic of Slovenia has gained independence, not Croatia. Croatia was also part of the SFRJ at the time. And if we were to make any kind of agreement, then we should have made it with Belgrade, and we didn't. Croatia is only 8. Ten. 1991. And it must be realized that your lawyers didn't know that, either, until I told them that at the session of the Committee on International Relations, at a closed session, when they were looking at what I was saying, and first they argued that this was not true. And only when they checked through their mobile devices did they know it was true, and then they looked hard. In short, what you are saying is nonsense, which can only be based on pressure from the outside and on your promises to foreigners, and not on the Slovenian people who put you in the position of prime minister of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Please, you want the Prime Minister to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u25	One more time. The average date for Slovenia since 1991 has never been disputed. In 1991, 25 June, the cut-off date is the date by which both countries are bound to set a definitive limit on land and on the sea based on it, which has never been determined. I think that this has been achieved in an arbitration agreement, which is a proposal for a decision to set a border, a step forward that was not easy to reach. And I think that's a fair solution. And I stand behind him as the President of the Government and the Government who negotiated this agreement. The agreement is good, the agreement is now before the Constitutional Court. He is likely to attend a preliminary consultation referendum, and this high-level National Assembly will no doubt respect the will of the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Please, you want procedural, Mr. Jelinčič? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u27	That's right. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Prime Minister, it is important to be aware that if new evidence is found and new facts are found, the matter begins to spin again. Even our lawyers will be able to tell you that with new facts the matter can begin to be re-examined. And these are the new facts that the Slovenian National Party unfortunately had to dig up, because your lawyers are incompetent. Unless they succumbed to pressure from the outside, like someone else or maybe even got something. You're talking about 25. 6. When the two countries were to make a deal. Which two countries, Mr. Prime Minister? At that time the Republic of Slovenia was as a country and the SFRJ. Still SFRJ! As Croatia was part of this creation until 8 October of the same year in the framework of this SFRJ, it was only then that they gained their independence. You don't seem to be aware of that. You're talking about a just solution - just for whom? For the Slovenian people, this is treason. The loss of national territory, which will continue even further, especially when foreign legal professionals, under international law, begin to turn to the view that it is a secession from Yugoslavia, not the breakup of Yugoslavia - what will you do then? And instead of taking into your wing lawyers who know something, take from abroad some to make it clear to you! State law is based on country law, land law has been in force until the end of the collapse of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy and only these countries as constituencies of the former monarchy. Chronic countries with the status of countries have the opportunity to continue their Slovenian statehood, and it is now a unique opportunity to take advantage of this. And there will be no more opportunities like this! If you're gonna waste it, they're gonna sign you up as a whiteguard. Yes, among those who went to Rome to worship Mussolini? Therefore, Mr President, I ask that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, you put to the vote if the National Assembly adopts a debate on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u28	On the proposal by the President of the Government to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 15 December 2009, in the framework of the votes. In this respect, my fellow Members and colleagues, I should like to point out that, in the case of a procedural proposal, you avoid the direct problems as much as possible, because unfortunately those to whom this flight is taking place are no longer able to respond. The question on behalf of the SDS Group will be raised by Eva Irgle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President of the Government, we have recently seen a dangerous trend towards lowering democratic standards, which in the past have only been difficult to establish. In our country, the process of democratisation has started, and thus the relationship to respect for human rights has only begun with a new country. Over the years, we have reached some level of democratic standards that have started to put Slovenia at the side of other European countries, and today I am afraid that we are moving significantly away from these standards in the last year at all. In particular, I would like to point out that today's human rights situation is, above all, respect for human dignity for a very great test. The trend seen in the SDS is not only in the direction of returning to the situation before 1991, when a single-party system was present, but also in the direction of re-evaluation of the truth about single-owners and fighters for democratic change. Today, with considerable media support, the left is trying to give some new truth, if the former communists, who are considered today to be great Democrats and Guardians of Human Rights, are the ones who have been preparing the process of both self-reliance and the beginning of democratisation. Certainly a twisted logic that wants to become the truth. That this perverse logic is still true also confirms the latest unacceptable action of the president of the country, who, just as we remembered the beginnings of democratic change in Slovenia, celebrated the former head of the Udba Tomaž Ertl. So, the man who was at the head of the most repressive and secret authority in the country that had arrested John Janša and boasted about it today, and who was a strong opponent in democratic change. This is a very controversial move by the President of the State, who has legitimately legitimately justified the doing of a man who, in the past, simply "blowed up" to human rights. This distinction was also strongly opposed by key European policies. The resolution, which they adopted, condemned both the controversial decoration and the re-energizing and magnification of communist symbols, including condemning the naming of the road by dictator Titus in the middle of Ljubljana in 2009. Therefore, I ask you, Mr President of the Government, the following questions: Why did you and your client support the award of the State Medal to Tomaž Ertl, the former head of the secret political police, or the Udba, which for most Slovenes represents a symbol of human rights violations? I thank you in advance for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u31	First of all, I am here to answer as President of the Government and not as President of the Party, although of course I am not a separate person and I have the same position on questions. The government did not decide on this, and would also suggest that the President of the State elected by the people in the direct elections should be allowed to decide on his conscience within the limits of his powers, and he did so. Of course, you are asking me about the attitude of the Slovenian Government to the past half of history, if you would like, and here I would like to tell you that the Government has adopted and annexed it to the European Parliament declaration when it was addressed by the National Assembly. As Slovenians in 1990, we moved from a totalitarian system to a democratic system without any historical delay. And no one in this government has any nostalgia on the system that has failed. We do not even establish any conditions for any infringement of collective or personal human rights systematically, as they did in the previous system. This government and this country have an ambition to be an open society, democratic, free, where everyone can express their opinions. The President of the country also has his powers and is acting on his conscience. I would like to express my personal opinion on this issue. The President based his decision on the action of the North, which then protected democratic processes. From this point of view, it is likely that it is impossible to resist the importance of the people who led this action at the time. And indeed, on the other hand, it is possible to see a broader social context, which was the context of the totalitarian regime. In this regard, the President has decided to take the initiative of the North Veteran Organisation and has awarded three individuals for the North Action. So let there be no doubt about my personal appearance and also, I think, our general. We have no desire, no ambition and no right to restore in any way a system that has lost its legitimacy and legitimacy. However, we have every obligation to build opportunities for all human, personal and collective rights in this country to be respected. Did I make myself clear?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u33	Well, the government really didn't decide on this award, but I also asked you as party president. In fact, I expected a similar answer from you, some distance from a specific answer to a completely specific question. Your party to the Social Democrats made it clear in the public statement on 3.12. that it supports the President of the State in this award. Therefore, this misdirection and evasiveness with regard to the response is completely overtaken. Fourteen European Heads of Government, the President of the European Council, the President of the European Parliament and the European Commission have made it clear that Tomaž Ertla's medal is a mockery of all those who have fought to establish democracy and to reject communism, which has also caused much pain and much injustice in Slovenia. This has been the case in the resolution, among other things. [[Quote]] "In the context of the 20th anniversary of democratic change in Europe, the European People's Party strongly condemns the systematic promotion in some Member States of the European Union of the worship of communist dictators, such as, for example, the capital of Slovenia, Ljubljana, where one of the main roads was named after the leader of the communist regime, Marshal Josip Broz Tito. It condemns the actions of current local and national governments in some post-communist countries. These actions not only embody history and create differences in society, but also set a poor example for younger generations and slow the healing of wounds in societies that end the transition to democracy." That's why I ask you, Mr. President of the Government, once again: Why did you and your client specifically support the award of a state award to Mr Tomaž Ertl, whom we know as the former head of the secret political police or the Udba, who for most Slovenes represents a symbol of human rights violations?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Borut Pahor, President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u35	Once again, it is not my job and not my responsibility to justify the decisions of the President of the Republic. But we all know, and it is good to remember that the prize for three individuals was proposed by the North. Another time. I said that, with this justification, the President also decorated these three individuals for the North's action, which protected democratic processes. And I made it clear that if - and this is allowed and legitimate and you have this right - you put the role of the then republican secretary in a broader context, it is not possible to pass on the fact that the republican secretary was in the totalitarian system. And this government has no desire and ambition to rehabilitate this system in any way. No ambitions! So if by your question you're implying to me - how was it told? - "systematicly awake" or even trying to express admiration for the people who were the leaders of this system, then you say something that is not true. This government did not do one thing. Is it? Please answer me, too. Has this government taken one step, one step at a time? It's not. So this is the government of the Democratic Republic of Slovenia. It understands what an open society is, understands what is the importance of human rights, special and collective, and makes systematic efforts to enforce them.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Please, do you want procedural? Mrs. Irgle. And, of course, I must find that this issue does not even fall within the purview of the President of the Government, because the Government is not competent, but nevertheless, it is a political debate and please, Mrs Irgle. At this point, I want a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u37	Well, Mr Pahor is also a politician if I am not mistaken. And this falls under the question of human rights. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold an extensive debate on the response of the President of the Government regarding the apparent fall in democratic standards and respect for human rights. Of course, I want to further substantiate this. The last move by the president of the country, when he awarded Tomaž Ertl, further reduces democratic standards. The function of power and authority has been awarded an award that raises great dilemmas and concerns and outright objections in most Slovenes. Otherwise, the range of human rights violations over the past year is quite wide. In the first place, unemployment has increased, leading to severe social and personal hardships for individuals, some of whom do not even have basic survival. It is a grave violation of human rights that this government cannot provide a decent life for a person, but at the same time it does not accept any assistance in the form of ready measures to mitigate the economic crisis by the opposition. During that time, mobbing or bullying also increased dramatically. There is a marked spread of fear and discomfort among employees due to the grave human resources intervention of the ruling coalition. At the Ministry of Education and Sport, there is even a detective activity, as employees in this Ministry are supposed to be monitored illegally. Not to mention the case of the journalist Mesh, who was literally thrown on the road because he was not willing to be the ruling coalition. While the area of human rights protection is apparently well-ordered at a normative level, when we come from words to action, we can see that the ruling coalition exercises unacceptable selectivity in fundamental human rights. After all, it is obvious that the standard and level of protection of human rights, as well as respect for human rights, have been significantly reduced by the recent actions of the President of the country. The only place where Slovenia is currently seeing an increase in the government of Borut Pahor is the growing number of unemployed. That the state of the spirit and the bad climate in the country is serious also shows international scales such as the press freedom index and the corruption index, where Slovenia has slipped to many places down there at the time. These are certainly indicators requiring an extensive debate in the National Assembly, which is why I believe you will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u38	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Ambassador Eve Irgl to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to her question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 15 December 2009, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister will be posed by a mag. Radovan Žerjav, Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honourable President of the Government. In the last year and perhaps even further back, we have received many strong optimistic and popular statements from many representatives of our government, from that of 1,000 euros in pension and those of 1,000 euros in non-replacement, from that of 1,000 euros in minimum wage and from that last statement of yours, when you said you could do work in the state administration with half of the fewer employees. I myself have pointed out many times in the last year that a decisive reform of public administration with the objective of a substantial and, in fact, a radical reduction in the costs of public administration is one of the key and most important steps in the resolution of our economy and our society. I mentioned a reduction in these costs of between 20% and 30%, and here I had in mind all the costs, i.e. a general reduction in the costs of public administration and not only the costs related to employees. I do not know in what context I can make your statement that work in the public administration could be done with half of the less employees, but in the context of all other similar statements, where there is only and only in statements, without any action and were actually more selective statements, even though some have been made after the elections, or in the context of a statement of serious and responsible policy and your personal awareness and the conviction that this is true and possible. I therefore ask you, Mr President of the Government, with regard to the surplus of employees found in the State Administration: How do you plan as President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and as a serious and responsible policy to solve this problem of over 8,500 employees in the state administration? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u41	Because the speech, the honourable Member, about freedom is also part of freedom for each of us to say what he thinks. And I said what I thought a week ago, and I didn't change my mind about it. If, today, as Prime Minister of the Government, I would like to say to myself that I could put it more delicately and be equally successful. I said I was putting this argument over my finger. I wanted to point out another problem, not only the problem of the scope of the state administration - by the way, this is not even among the most extensive administrations of the European Union, but I wanted to draw attention to another problem that I see - this is market flexibility, for example, in the state administration and, secondly, reward. You have people in the state administration - you know this because you were a minister - who are working to the end of their commitment, hard work, more than necessary, and their success is to a great extent the success of the government. And you have people who don't work hard, who don't have the necessary skills or they don't want to use them, and their failure is also the failure of the government. The problem is, they're paid almost the same for their work. And that seems insufferable to me. We - here is the Minister of Public Administration - are preparing some changes that will allow, at least my desire, to achieve such flexibility, greater flexibility within the public administration, so that it will be easier to employ those who have ambitions that want to turn themselves over to the public administration and have ambition to go to the public administration to the top, and to better resolve from the positions of administration those who are not successful who the employer considers to be doing less than necessary or worse than good. And I also said, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members, where I see the problem and we will witness it when we achieve this flexibility. When the employer, the chairman of a department, the world, institutions, agencies, is given to judge one of his fellow workers doing well and let him stay and even raise his wages and let him go, because he is doing bad. You know what's gonna happen? The evidence of political recruitment will begin. This is what I fear most is that we are not all mature enough to be able, I will say, to be credible and without political controversy, to leave to the leaders of the state administration, to decide who is doing good and who is doing bad, who will be rewarded and who will not be told to find a job elsewhere. But this desire and this ambition of this government exist. And we're gonna bite her. I also said that if I were already putting the government and the system on a new one, I wouldn't have as many ministers as I have today, but I would have reorganised the government's work differently. And yet it's not a priority right now. Why? We've got other problems inside. One was mentioned earlier, unemployment, which will be higher next year than this year. The stability of the economic situation does not yet mean the end of the crisis, but we will also touch on this problem, Mr Member, we will try to reduce the number in the public administration and my wish is that we will not only achieve it by not hiring new ones and that we will only wait for the retirement of those already employed in public administration. We also need young people with fresh and new knowledge. So we need more flexibility. The Minister is committed to trying to achieve these goals through changes in the system.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Please, do you want to complete the answer? Please, mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u43	Thank you very much. So I absolutely share your thinking, Mr President of the Government, because I myself have experienced similar things as Minister of Transport. And of course I understand this statement and this thinking towards saving in public administration. I am aware that this is, of course, a very complex and difficult question, but unfortunately this will or I have not seen this desire through both the 2010 and 2011 budgets, which were under consideration a few days or a few weeks ago. From both budgets, there is waste and waste. I have repeatedly warned both of you through my discussions here in the National Assembly, and I will do it this time. Many times the former government was criticized for being empty and similar. That is why I compared both budgets to the budget drawn up by the old government for 2009. Explain to me, please, in the light of your statement, so I see it as the direction of saving: In these times of crisis, how can the Secretary-General of the Government, who had an estimated 14.9 million euro spent for 2009 from the old government, be expected to spend 16 million euros for 2010 and 17.1 million euros for 2011? Why did the Government's communication office for 2009 have an estimated 5.5 million euros for 2010 5.9 and 2011 6.4 million euros? And such cases, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, according to the majority of budget consumers. Rare exceptions are those that have reduced their consumption. This means that these consumers do not feel the crisis and do not behave responsibly enough, we speak briefly, we work together.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u44	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u45	Nobody's perfect, not me, but neither are you. In the previous mandate, in 2008, as the Government, you reached an agreement with the social partners, who, during the period of the economic transition and without any behaviour, will begin the next year of the deep economic crisis, will essentially increase the level of financial expenditure by 450 million. It is a great success of this government, and it is thanks to all our negotiators, ministers and all others that we have reached agreement twice a year in social dialogue with the public sector trade unions and saved 350 million euros in savings with the public sector unions that have saved for us to meet the criteria for joining the euro. We have reached an agreement with them that, while their job will be theirs, and this is now the answer to your question, I must be made clear that their job will be safe for the next two years, but that is why we are proposing, and this agreement has also decided to reduce the amount of wages and thus burden the budget, so that we can give money for investments and for other things that are important for the future of this country, Member. It was the great success of this government, don't underestimate it. We haven't achieved everything. Am I happy with everything we've done about the administration? No, no, no. My philosophy has always been, we are a small country, 2 million inhabitants, we need a small administration, well-paid and motivated. Do we have one? No, no, no. We don't have it because it's too extensive, and that's why we pay those who aren't as good and diligent and know as much as those who deserve it as the first. This is not good and we need to make changes, but step by step, Mr Member, we cannot solve everything this year, I admit that the problems we have not solved are problems. In my office we have saved 400,000 euros, could be more, we have saved 400,000 euros in a reduced figure since 2008. You got it or you don't? Here. Do we have the same number of employees as they are systematized? No, no, no. Thor, there are some successes here. Did we do everything you expected of us? No, no, no. But step by step. Some success has been achieved this year, which you must see and must appreciate. When I admit that we have failed in everything I want you to admit that a few things have been done that have kept the public finances in shape, which allows us to go from the big fall of GDP to gradual economic growth next year. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u46	Thank you very much. You want procedural? Mr. Mag. Crane, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a broader debate at the discretion of the President of the Government, because this is more than necessary. I agree, Mr President, with the Government. You personally have done a great deal and you are one of the great ones who saved the most in his cabinet. That's not true of all your other members of the government. 15 ministries will spend €300 more in 2010 than they were allocated in 2009. But, Prime Minister, as CEO of the company, you have proposed business plans for 2010 and 2011, which envision 1.8 billion and 1.5 billion losses. While most business units or establishments of this company, if you want, do not reduce costs under harsh conditions of the financial economic crisis. More. It increases them. If we make a parallel with Gorenje for 2009, Gorenje would have lost EUR 281 million in the budget from the 1.3 billion of revenues he had converted to these facts. Do you realize what would have happened in Gorenje if that had happened? That's our budget. Pictured on Gorenje, 281 million euros in losses. So on the one hand, we say we're going to save or we want to, and on the other hand, in the real world, the numbers point to this. I'm the one who asked for the demanties, and I'm sorry I didn't get them. Most budget consumers will spend more than was intended by the previous government for 2009. More. So they don't realize we should spend less. That's what I'm gonna say. They didn't get the right instructions. They did not get the right instructions from the top that savings should be made at all ends and places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u48	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Radovan Žerjava, that the National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday 15 December 2009, in the framework of the votes. Before we go any further, I would like to point out once again to the honourable Members and Members that, in the context of the procedural proposals for a debate with the President of the Government or the Minister, ministers do not address new rhetorical or real questions because they cannot answer them. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be presented by Franz Jurša, DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall. At its 10th regular meeting, the National Assembly adopted the Law on the Development Support of the Pomeranian Region for the period 2010-2015. The law lays down specific measures to promote development and its financing. Support measures are intended to create new jobs and preserve existing ones, establish development infrastructure and address the consequences of the economic and financial crisis in the Pomur region. Development support measures include promoting the competitiveness of employment, tax incentives for investment, prioritising programmes and projects in candidateing funds from national programmes, European cohesion policy programmes, rural development policies in the areas of the establishment of an inter-enterprise education centre, the establishment of a regional economic centre, investment in restructuring and enhancing the competitiveness of agriculture and forestry, and the food processing industry [[....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] in non-agricultural activities and investments in drinking water infrastructure. Mr President, in this regard, I ask you, given that we have already produced feasibility studies and eligibility in Pomura with cost-benefit analyses for the economic centre, some have already produced the necessary project and investment documentation I am interested in: Will we be able to draw funding from the establishment of regional economic centres in the following year? How far are the implementing sub-legislative rules that will allow tenders prepared? What are your calls? How high will they be published in the first quarter of 2010?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u51	Before I answer your question, honourable Member, I should be allowed, because it is related to this case, to find that some of the public's urgent complaints that this government is the gravedigger of the central pomura company Mure have been a little premature. It wasn't easy what we did. But it was right and at the right time, and today a third of the employees are back in the job. However, this was because we were aware that Prekmurje was one of the most regionally undeveloped provinces in Slovenia, that the law should be adopted. And we did. The measures also provide for the establishment of a regional economic centre. This centre of the ECO is part of the Resolution on National Development Projects until 2023 and is linked mainly to infrastructure, as you yourself find in the question. In our discussions with representatives and preparers of this project so far, we have been able to see that individual projects and the preparation of spatial acts are in different stages of preparation. It is also not entirely clear what is involved in infrastructure planning, in which potential partners and investors see important development opportunities and interests, and we want to take a step forward with representatives of local authorities in this regard. For these reasons, the construction of economic infrastructure remains one of the priority areas identified in the 2010 and 2011 budgets. Both financially and substantively. That we're right now. Financially, this means that in 2010 we will spend 26 million 719 thousand and a few euros and in 2011 36 million 584 thousand and a few euros. This entails a search for common solutions with private investors on the possibilities of activities that will mean added value for the field and not just for reconstruction or construction with short-term effects. This is not even so much about the creation of a public-private partnership, but also about the search for private investors, including foreign investors, who will enter the projects, for example, because of the attractive tax relief that is also the subject of this law. The implementation of this instrument will start at the beginning of next year and, in this context, projects within the Economic Centre of the Environment will also be able to compete for co-financing of projects, allowing funds to be drawn up in line with the 2010 budget. The Pomurska Region Support Act in Article 9 provides in detail that the value of the annual financing dynamics shall be determined by the projects adopted after they have been directly confirmed. The projects shall be financed on the basis of verified feasibility studies and taking into account the interest expressed by investors for the implementation and substantive rounding of projects. This also applies to individual projects within the framework of the economic centre of the ECO that you are asking about. The Government's project office in the Pomurska region is being set up with the very purpose of speeding up these procedures as well, and to build on as soon as possible the lack of economic infrastructure required by the Pomeranian economy. This will only be possible to determine the dynamics of construction in projects of economic interest. We have set minimum deadlines on the issue of the preparation of sub-legislative acts. Until the entry into force of the law at the beginning of the following year, we would like to do preparatory work in this short interim period and allow for public calls as soon as possible. The technical preparation shall be completed or shall be in intersectoral coordination. The Minister responsible for local self-government and regional development concludes with the preparation of an internal instruction which, according to our assessment, will allow the operation of the government projects of the office in the Pomurska region immediately in the first days of January. A regulation that will allow established incentives for employment and tax incentives for investment is also already in cross-cutting coordination. So all that comes from the provisions of the law is operationally in line with the Government's priority. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete Mr. Jurš's reply? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not ask for a reply to be completed, I am satisfied with the answer, but I must tell the President of the Government that the pomurice space is wider than the Prekmurje area and contains two in full, these are Prekmurje and Prleki. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you very much. A helpful comment, thank you. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 6th, 8th meeting of the assembly. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Milan Pogačnik, will first answer the question of William Trofenika regarding biogas plant construction. Please, Minister Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Member. You asked what the attitude of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food towards the construction of biogas plants is in terms of providing the necessary agricultural areas for the processing of industrial plants. I'd say next. They are certainly a biogas energy source which is extremely acceptable in these circumstances. However, different ingredients from fertilisers to slaughterhouse additives as well as plant biomass are used as a substrate for the production of biogas. And just plant biomass is what is questionable for Slovenia, especially because of the already known conclusion that the processing areas in Slovenia are only 670,000 hectares. In terms of environmental protection, biogas plants have a positive impact, as it is also possible to obtain quality organic fertilisers as a by-product. In Slovenia, we have seven large biogas plants, four of which are used in addition to the production of manure also for the production of slaughterhouses and household waste, including silage maize, corn grain and grass silage. Grass corn uses about 92 thousand tonnes. This, of course, in total processing means a relatively small percentage because they process about a million 200 000 tonnes of silage maize per year. The other three biogas plants, the organic masses are not used. Due to the already mentioned lack of working surfaces in Slovenia we are retained until the use of corn silage and corn grain for the purposes of biogas plants. However, there are no mechanisms or levers within the European Union to prohibit the use of such plant, organic mass for the production of biogas. We do know, however, that increased interest in sowing such crops will reduce food production while at the same time making cologne more difficult to manage. However, as soon as we make it difficult to manage cologne, we will have to use more plant protection products to protect plants, which, of course, is not acceptable again. So, in Slovenia there are for the production of maize biomass, for the use of biogas plants very limited options, and in this direction we will try to regulate things through some measures, especially I think that this will be easier after the adoption of the agricultural development strategy, which, you know, has not been changed since 1993, in order to somehow steer which areas, including possibly degraded areas, which need to be re-recultivated in order to be suitable for the use of such plants. However, the issue is interesting and I will also examine the thinking of other EU Member States as part of the Council of Agricultural Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u56	Mr. Trofenik, would you like to complete your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present. First of all, I thank the Minister for his answer. I am pleased to note that he himself also draws attention to the possible negative side of this medal, which is certainly present. Let me point out that for the second year, 2010, both potential investors and equipment suppliers, the construction of biogas plants in the range of 40 MW. Based on the assumption that for one MW between 400 and 500 hectares for the production of maize silage, or half less, if two harvests are needed for the combination of maize and cheese, this means that we need between 16 thousand and 20 thousand hectares or less than 8 thousand to 10 thousand, which is more than the best time available for the sowing of sugar beet. Although to some extent or in principle, the Minister's reply to me is satisfactory because we are aware of the danger, I say that we are very generous in stimulating the energy buy-back of this title, but I would expect that, in the final version, the strategy for agricultural development will clearly define the attitude of the Republic of Slovenia to this problem, as well as inter-sectoral cooperation between agriculture, the environment and the energy sector and the Ministry of Energy, when deciding on the admission of entrepreneurs offering energy acquired under favourable conditions under Austria's example. In Austria, it is simply not possible to build a biogas plant on a raw material produced on soils unless you have the consent of the competent raw material services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thank you very much to Mr. Trofenic for this addition. Preparations and interviews are also under way in this respect and we would also like to limit the use of surfaces for the production of energy plants for the consumption of biogas plants. Especially those plants that serve primarily for animal feeding, which is corn silage.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Minister Milan Pogačnik will answer the question of Happy Friends regarding the sale of agricultural land. Please, Mr. Pogačnik. Minister, as an answer regarding the sale of agricultural land to the question of Happy Friend. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u61	Dear Mr. President. Dear Member, your question was, above all, what Slovenia would do about the protection of national interest, given the adoption of the Cooperatives Act, which allows only three foreigners to establish a cooperative. Complements of the Cooperative Act have indeed been adopted. The provisions on the European Cooperative should also be introduced into Slovenian legislation, which truly allows five persons from two European countries to establish a cooperative. In particular, in order to resolve this interest and also to help farmers buy agricultural crops, this does not significantly affect the purchase of land. After all, it's about buying primary crops. Nor is this cooperative law regulated, since foreigners may acquire property rights on immovable property under the conditions laid down in the law or in the international contract under Article 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. By the time of Slovenia's accession to the EU, all foreigners wishing to purchase property in Slovenia had to meet two conditions. The first is a three-year continuous stay in the current territory of the Republic of Slovenia and the acquisition of an administrative decision establishing reciprocity. For the citizens of the Member States of the European Union, the first condition ceased to apply in 2003 and since 1 May 2004 it is no longer necessary to obtain an administrative decision establishing reciprocity in the Republic of Slovenia. It is therefore a matter of two different content, but the purpose of establishing a European cooperative is not primarily to buy agricultural land, but to buy agricultural crops. Of course, the cooperative can also deal with primary processing and has the right to purchase land, as citizens of Slovenia have the right to purchase land in other Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u62	Complementary response is requested by Mr Happy Friend. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, with your answer, I can't possibly be satisfied. What Pahor's government will actually give to Croatia, we will sell what remains in the agricultural field to foreigners. Let me remind you in particular of the last thing you said. Indeed, Italy offers favourable loans for the purchase of agricultural land and other land only until Postojna, which I have pointed out several times in the National Assembly. What we have done now, what you have been urged not to do, also others in our society, from the cooperative association to the Agricultural Union of Slovenia and so on, you are despite the fact that the National Assembly is 30. 9. 2009 accepted veto, reconfirmed. And today we have a situation where foreigners organised in a quasi-cooperation can purchase priority land from the Agricultural Land Fund, which is somewhere from one euro to several euros. This does not mean anything for Italy, because the 60 million population with ease and joy buys a beautiful Slovenian homeland. And that's what's happening. And I specifically asked you, Mr. Secretary-General: What are you gonna do? Are we going to introduce positive reciprocity and say how much we can buy in Italy, Austria, Hungary or Croatia, or are we going to allow so much from us, or are we just going to watch the hectares disappear into the hands of foreigners? If you do this in such an uncontrollable way, then there will really be nothing left of Slovenia. We lost Istria, a few islands, and today you could hear from the President what we gave Croatia. Today, in another context, we are discussing what we will still sell them cheap. I'd like you to say: What will you do to protect Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u64	Please, Minister Dr. Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u65	Your Honor! You have made the issue very widespread, I am talking about agricultural land, and the question was also about the purchase of agricultural land. Here, unfortunately, you are wrong because the Agricultural Lands Act precisely sets a priority order for redemption. First, it has the advantage of buying the co-owner, then the second is the farmer whose land is owned and bordered on land, this is the real farmer you are bordering, then the third is the tenant of the land that is on sale, then all the other farmers have, and only then are the agricultural organisations and independent entrepreneurs, where agricultural cooperatives also belong and where other European agricultural cooperatives belong, and only then it is the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. This is said to be the order of the order, it does not change, it is laid down by the Agricultural Lands Act and it is an open question whether it is of interest to purchase such land. If they don't have it, anyone else can buy it, which is a fact. However, as I have said, it is no longer necessary to obtain an administrative decision on the finding of reciprocity in order to acquire land since 2004, as this is a law that is in force, but is not under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u66	Thank you very much. You want procedural, Mr. Friend? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again, Madam Minister, despite the fact that the National Assembly has given you a veto on what I have said, you have now said that the cooperative is one of those that has priority in purchasing these lands and advantages, and given that you have not given me an answer as to how the Republic of Slovenia will protect the sale of Slovenian agricultural land, which, after the current legislation, if we take into account the adoption of this law, the foreigners have not been able to buy, but now we can have a calm soul, you have not told me how you will protect this Slovenian national interest. That is why I will demand that a broader debate be held in the National Assembly, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure or Article 246 of this Article, and I hope that the National Assembly will be able to have at least so much discretion that we will adopt a guardian in the National Assembly and impose such macho treatment on the Government that it currently carries out. You know, you're there right now, and Mr. Pahor is there right now, but it's been writing and talking about you and everything else you've done wrong and what you haven't done, what you could, what we've warned you about. And one of these warnings is mine, well-intentioned. This is not European comparability, we are small and I warn you once again, Italy massively buys Slovenian land, 60 million land and loans give T+0% for Slovenian land, and you plant flowers here for all of us and you say this can't happen. This is happening today and here and it has to be prevented. Who will stop it if not the Slovenian Government? It is best that you give them all a collective retreat and that we make another government that will take more care of it, that we may find it elsewhere if we do not have so many gathered and conscious Slovenians. This is the betrayal of the Slovenian people, excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u68	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Srečk Friends to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Milan Pogačnik, to his question of the mission, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 15 December 2009, in the framework of the votes. Minister Milan Pogačnik will answer Jožef Jerovška's question regarding the situation of farmers in the event of an extremely low prices for agricultural products. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member, in your question, you have indicated that there is no farmer in Slovenia who would be satisfied with 100% lower sales prices of compartments than in last year. I'm sorry. I don't know where that came from. We are monitoring current current information on individual agricultural markets every week and prices have really fallen, but there is no way that prices will fall by 100%. According to current statistics, prices of agricultural crops in processors in September 2009 were 16.6% lower than in September 2008 and 9.5% lower than in September 2007. As we have already mentioned many times, this year's prices are certainly not comparable with 2009, as in terms of global agricultural policy on production and high prices, an exceptional year that agro-economists cannot explain. I would add that at the same time the prices of "inputs" for agriculture started to fall, and here we also see a decrease of 10.4% compared to 2008. However, some "inputs" have been much cheaper, such as fertilisers for 46%, for example, feeding for 23%, when talking only about the most important ones used in agricultural production. And Slovenian agriculture is certainly part of the European market and so indirectly, although somewhat by delay, feels the consequences of the global economic and financial crisis. The decline in consumption and demand is reduced. This year it was also poorer due to the current and the power, and this also has a indirect impact on the decline in agricultural prices. However, in the government we are currently monitoring this situation and therefore we are also introducing and implementing a number of measures in this area. In particular, we have focused on a faster payment of the actions of the common agricultural policy. For example, in December this year we paid almost 70% of subsidies for restricted areas, in January we will pay a hundred million more direct payments, approximately that we have reduced the campaign time by almost three months or reduced the payment time. In addition, we have taken all areas with limited factors from taxation on income. This was also done this year. After that, we increased the refund of excise duty from 50 % to 70% on agricultural activities, we further distributed, like some other countries, additional aid to dairy producers and cereal producers who suffered the crisis, we actively joined a group of twenty-one countries which, in the special working group, prepared a proposal for the Commission of the Council of Agricultural Ministers and obtained additional 280 million different aids for agriculture in Europe, especially for the milk segment. We have also adapted a number of measures to the 2007-2013 rural development programme to the new situation. For steep farms, for steep vineyards, for example, for the transport of milk and could also be listed. We have also been actively involved in the drafting of the Pomura Act, which provides €40 million by 2013 for development programmes in the Pmurje area. In short, I could list everything, but I think that there has been a lot done in this area, that the government has actively dealt with the problems of the agricultural crisis and that they are also successful. You also mentioned the price of milk in your question. The price of milk has indeed fallen at the beginning of the year, and given last year's 33 price, we have succeeded in the last 4,5 months, as the whole of Europe, nothing else, to stabilise the price of milk and now stands at 2,34 cents per litre. Therefore, there are positive developments and some prices of certain products are higher than even in the previous year. So much for this real official information we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am very disappointed at the humiliating attitude towards farmers and your claims that are, I must say, incredible that you do not know where the data on the 100% reduction of certain sales prices is. I'll give you a copy of the neighbor who sold 150 tons of first-class table apples last year for 40 cents, and this year for 20 cents, not covering production costs, and it's huge. Industrial apples fell from 13 cents last year to 4 cents. They make fun of farmers, merchants and farmers. They're making fun. However, your implementation, Mr Minister, is fully supported by traders and producers. Today, the farmer, here in the Evening, tells you that such a policy is also in the view of the European Commission, when trade is granted, the collapse of agriculture. Unfortunately, I note that the government's project is similar to that of the communist 20 years after the war to destroy the Slovenian farmer. But I also take it as an attack on the vocabulary, on a segment of society that has been constantly the hardest and most patriotic on the bumper of the country. You're talking about not comparing this year's prices to last year's prices. This year's crisis got worse, all the prices went up. I have to say that such a catastrophic decline in the farmer's sales prices was completely unknown to the buyer in the shop, there were rising prices for the consumer, and there was an increase in profits and super money for the consumer. And that's government policy, obviously. I've also heard that this is also a political game that you had on the committee to make an agitrope an enemy of workers now in this situation. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Dr. Milan Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u73	Dear Member, I must say that I particularly want to work professionally, and I think that agriculture is an area where a lot of expertise is needed, and it has been much lost. We are engaged in the programmes of the new agri-terrestrial policy, we find that our agriculture is fragmented, that it needs to be increased and so on. Let's go back to the question. I think we've done a lot of good things this year and opened up some of those that were really neglected. It's just information on apples. I don't know where you draw your data, I don't draw it from your neighbor, I draw it from official statistics. The price of apples at week 48 relative to last year is 23% lower, that's true. But we also have examples of good and bad practices here. We have exceptional companies, fruit growers who export, which create high production and achieve high prices. This is the whole Eurosad case. Also in the milk sector. I used to talk about the price of 27.40, and we have milk shops where the milk is paid after 35. These are examples of good practices where they are well organised. But here I agree with you, there must be a good production chain, from the grower, the buyer, the processor and the store. And this is where the problem arises, not only with us, but also in Europe. That is why the European Commission has set up a high-level group that deals exclusively with this problem that you have highlighted. This is an irregularity and I do not support that we understand, on the contrary, that this difference in the price of a farmer is falling and in trade is rising, but it certainly cannot be influenced by just one ministry or one state, these are measures to be taken at the level of the whole of Europe. This is what the Commission and the Council of Agricultural Ministers are doing intensively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u74	Would you like to complete your answer, Mr Jerovšek? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u75	The answers I am appalled about, because, Minister, companies are not farmers. You are saying that you have data from the companies that are selling, the prices of agricultural crops and the horror and the misunderstanding of the situation in agriculture, in fact I see that those who are doing well in agriculture are the people of Ljubljana who are engaged in agriculture. They can be satisfied because most of this money stays here in Ljubljana, even within administrative services and all that. And agriculture and farmers are falling apart. There has never been such a catastrophic situation. And I can't accept the difficulty of doing a lot of good. Not for the farmer, for the processing companies. Where do you get the stats? I think that Slovenian farmers and agriculture, as a sector, also earning and needing the same treatment from the point of view of the country and state-of-the-art as in other countries. Look, even in November, our merchants imported last year's apples from Hungary and Poland, apples that are harmful to health. This government has not taken any action to protect domestic producers of apples. What we were supposed to do there was drive to Slovenia. I don't know, maybe our customers will be eating imported Hungarian and Polish ice cream apples for the new year. For these apples, not only are they inferior, but they are of a quality worse than the squire's apple, of which they sometimes knew in the court of Vienna that it was only squire's good to eat, and they ate only the squire's apples in the court of Vienna. And instead of introducing environmental taxes and protecting a domestic producer - a wide range of European countries with different environmental taxes - protecting the domestic producer, with us a domestic producer, a farmer, is being destroyed in every way possible. Because this government is on the trader's side. They pay for these parties' programmes and support them. And this is an unsustainable state, and don't start pointing out to farmers that they are enemies of workers, as was done in the previous regime. As a result, it is necessary for Parliament to hold a debate on this issue in which I have encountered such an eccentric misunderstanding of the situation and the attitude towards the farmer. Most Members come from areas where they know these problems, you know how farmers are doing conscientiously, they are being tortured, and finally they will have to give up and leave the land to Italians and Austrians, because there are higher prices for agricultural crops and cheaper products for consumers in trade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Jožet Jerovska to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food to his question of the mission, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday, 15 December 2009, in the framework of the votes. Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar will first answer the question of Milenko Ziherl regarding the diplomatic activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Please, Minister Zbogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you very much, President. Dear Members. Ambassador Zicherl, you asked about the ambassadors who were without ambassadors in 2008-2009 and the consequences of these empty cities. First of all, I would say that it is not unusual for the ambassadors to be replaced by the DKP to have a shorter period when the embassy is headed by the business manager. We will also be on our own now, as we move all the changes to the summer, in accordance with the regime policy, it is said that between a month or two the embassy will be headed by the business manager. Last year there were not only shorter but also longer delays for known reasons, mainly due to reasons for poor communication between the President of the Republic and the Government. I think that the current cooperation, personally, as well as the Government with the President of the Republic, ensures that such situations will no longer occur. Also in the National Affairs Act, which you will be considering this week, we are very careful to prescribe a procedure when appointing ambassadors, even in order not to repeat such a situation. Otherwise, in 2008 and 2009, 13 ambassadors were appointed without ambassadors. I have a list of countries, but I can also mention: Germany, Switzerland, Slovakia, Belgium, Hungary, Austria, the Netherlands, Ukraine, Denmark, Great Britain, the Russian Federation, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United States of America, 13 embassies. On average, they were without an ambassador for six months and the Russian Federation and the United States were without an ambassador for nine months. As I have already mentioned, this situation has already been rectified and most of our ambassadors are complete with or led by ambassadors. The fact that there were no ambassadors in some countries at a certain time did not have significant consequences for Slovenian lobbying or Slovenian foreign policy activities. In the meantime, the DKP was led by business redundancies in close cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as by the additional obligations and efforts of these redundancies. These are qualified diplomats who have done their work well and professionally. Of course, such intensity of work can only last for a certain period of time and could not last longer. However, our diplomacy in presenting its activities, even in its activities, is systematic, long-term and not different levels and is not lobbying or activity depends solely on the ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u78	Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Ziherl? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I certainly thank the Minister for this answer, and I think he is sufficiently correct from the point of view of the Ministry. However, I cannot be entirely satisfied, for even if this is true, what Mr Minister says, we cannot go beyond the fact that the transition between one government and another by the President of the State has resulted in the unwarranted and rejected six appointments that have already been "hearing" before the relevant committee in the National Assembly. This has had, I do not agree with Mr Minister and also with the data on the ground, for example, foreign diplomacy, which is with us, reminds us that, at key moments in key places such as Austria, the Federal Republic of Germany, the United States, Russia, exactly as regards our arbitration agreement or relations with Croatia, that there were no relevant people in key places. For if I express myself militarily, what do I know if the lieutenant negotiates, but the other is if the general negotiates. If he's at receptions anywhere, then diplomacy is going on, whether he's a lower official or he's got the last word. And I certainly see a flaw in that. We have already found that the President of the State did not have the legitimate reasons that are simply prescribed to indicate when a failure in the procedure can be maintained if it is found later on the appointment that the candidate has expressed a chauvinistic opinion on gender, religion and equality of race. And in that, the President of the State had no argument. Even worse, there are still open cities in Zagreb, Rome and Belgrade. These are the key cities because now it's happening in [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Zbogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u81	I would agree with you when you say an officer is not the same as a general. But in such a case, the Commander-in-Chief is more involved. And in this case, I think the foreign ministry has been more involved. In any case, the embassy cannot act exactly the same at the level of the administrators of the business as the ambassadors. I'd agree here. Of course, the business manager can do a lot, especially if he makes additional efforts, but it is true that the ranking is not the same, but that is why the ministry has also done a lot in the past time to make up for it. Why was there this absence of ambassadors in the cities? We do not have the same position here, and I do not think that what you are saying is so clearly accepted, under what conditions the President may refuse to sign. The fact is that the procedure was not respected that the President was not consulted in time before he was even questioned by the Committee on Foreign Policy and applied for aggressors. But I think this case is being saved, as I said, in the law it is so clearly written that there will be no more confusion, but otherwise we have ambassadors in all places. The three cities you mention, Zagreb, Rome and Belgrade, are in newly opened cities or the ambassadors have just left them, the appointment process is running. I would point out that in the past, there was also one period of five to eight months for such important cities, the same cities, when they were without ambassadors. So it's not unusual. These are important places to really weigh and choose the right candidates, but the procedure is ongoing and I believe that we will be able to fill all these cities at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u83	I certainly thank you for the second part of the reply, but I do not think there is any point in applying Article 246.a because we have a similar subject as Mr. Minister mentioned at the regular session today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u84	Okay, Mr. Ziherl, then you're abusing the Rules of Procedure. [[...]] Thank you very much. We found out right away. Thank you. Minister Žbogar will answer Mira Petk's question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u85	Mr Petek asks about the information leak, if I sum it up very briefly, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would point out the measures that we have taken since I was a minister in order not to do so or to do so as little as possible. As far as internal security measures are concerned, as I said, I have been working ever since the beginning of my post to reorganise the Ministry in a desire to achieve more efficient and rational functioning of the system. This is how we have taken a series of measures. Among other things, measures to protect confidential information or to prevent their possible leakage. So I'd just count it. We have issued a directive on classified information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, introduced a mandatory permit and verification of persons with access to classified data, conducted mandatory training on confidential data management, introduced a central printing depot, introduced a crypt, mobile phones, introduced safety bags for physical mail, actively cooperated with national security authorities, strengthened the intelligence service and also introduced a special vehicle for courier transport. In early June we introduced an update of the depot system, which also improved all security aspects of inside-house information management. In addition, we strictly implement the provisions of internal acts and instructions in the Ministry of the Interior, whereby all staff are subject to security checks by the Ministry of the Interior in accordance with the law. As I mentioned earlier, we are conducting regular compulsory training on the handling of classified information and some measures, and additional measures in this direction are also covered by the proposal for an External Affairs Act. Of course, full security cannot be achieved, but we are certainly working at the Ministry to create a security environment through technical measures and efforts to improve professionalisation, where the possibility of leaking reliable information would be minimal. Of course, the awareness of individuals - users of certain confidential documents is most important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the response Miro Friday? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Minister, it is difficult to implement the institution of the oral question if you are no longer present for more than half a year at the meeting of the National Assembly and, of course, the question of the Member State has already been dipped in oblivion and has lost its purpose. Apart from, of course, this question of diplomatic incontinence or the uncontrolled diversion of important data to the public. Apparently, this thing is still on the table. Maybe a word or two about a Washington dispatch. At the time you were ambassadors in Washington, when this dispatch was made at the time the dispatch was sent to Ljubljana, you were on vacation and not properly marked with a degree of confidentiality. You're the minister today, and the one who made up the Washington dispatch today is the ambassador to Berlin. So all of you who participated in this "Washington dispatch" were eventually rewarded with this dispatch, which was unauthorizedly placed in the public and caused great damage. Remember what was happening in Belgrade, the property of the Slovenian Embassy, the security of the people at our embassy in Belgrade was threatened. Finally, Slovenian interests were threatened abroad, mainly in Serbia and Kosovo. And, of course, this continues today, at the PSC, we have considered an arbitration agreement with a code of strict confidentiality, which has been put on the table in the public eye, and in some ways we Members have been suspected. Mr Balažic said on one of the televisions that this was apparently made public by the National Assembly. So obviously you know who issued this dispatch to the public or who issued this information and this arbitration document to the public and I ask you: Can you give us a real name? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Samuel Zbogar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you. The question was, however, extended to certain things which I do not think are the subject of. But first of all, I haven't been here for more than six months. Mr Member, I have indeed been missing five times because of my service obligations. Unfortunately, meetings of the General and Foreign Affairs Council took place five times at the same time as the meeting of the National Assembly. However, I was here once when you were gone, so we did not answer that question at the time, but the President of the National Assembly agreed to move it forward, although it seems that this is not the rule. With regard to the arbitration agreement. I believe that the press representative of the foreign ministry commented as he commented because the copy that went public is not a copy that went out of the foreign ministry. The Foreign Ministry is preparing material for the Government, the Government marks this material in a special way or with additional markings and this material has come to the public. That's not the kind of material you'd have in the Foreign Ministry. For this reason, we can argue that that document did not come to the public from the foreign ministry. Who put it in public, I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you very much. You want procedural? Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I propose that we hold a debate on this answer at the next meeting. Mr. Minister, you said you've improved the security environment in the government. And we know that this week the government has confirmed the candidacy of two ambassadors, which is supposed to be classified, and yet has come to the public. Apparently we have diplomats in Slovenia, we have policies that are detrimental to Slovenian interest or perhaps even on some of the payment lists of secret services. I propose that we hold a debate in Parliament and, if necessary, close it to the public. Of course, it would be good if you, Mr Minister, had previously obtained information from the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Service, which is doing its work in this area, including by certain journalists accredited in Slovenia and who are obviously engaged in this activity. I would like to say that, in my previous mandate, I was a member of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, and I have also seen something and heard something in this area. And you were yourself an ambassador to the United States of America, and you know exactly how the CIA works, who they send to abroad. He also sends diplomats who work for their secret service at the same time and also sends correspondence to various media outlets. Such a debate will be able to provide answers to many relevant questions and, above all, it would be very useful for our national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Member Mir Petk to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar to his question on the matter of the matter, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 15 December 2009, in the framework of the votes. Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar will also answer Mira Petk's question regarding the ban on the celebration of Statehood Day at Slovenian foreign offices. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you very much, President. In response to this question, I would say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not prohibit the celebration of Slovenian statehood at diplomatic missions. The Diplomatic Representations merely called for them to take account of the current financial situation and to act extremely rationally with budgetary resources. In late April, the government adopted some measures by means of a package of austerity measures or ordered the budget users 20% reduction in the consumption of material investment costs. Accordingly, the Ministry has also adopted a series of austerity measures, including a reduction in the cost of representation at home and abroad. What did the Ministry do? Prior to the celebration of June, the diplomatic representatives informed them that they would not receive any additional funds for the celebration, but that diplomatic representatives could organise their receptions from the exceptional representative funds they have, or from the sponsors, if they so found. And most of the DKPs did. 25 diplomatic missions organised receptions on the day of statehood.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Miro Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I myself have a dispatch from this time where it is decidedly written to prohibit the marking of a state holiday, but it is a statehood day in the DKP, precisely because of the reduction of funds. I don't think that was right, and it wasn't a good move, because celebrations can be done in a different way. It is not necessary to not know what kind of meal, but it can only be toasted, but above all there is a certain population of people, and there is also a foreign policy. Above all, the locals were disappointed. In Austria this celebration took place in a concert home, while in Trieste this holiday was not celebrated at the Consulate General and the Germans had a lot of comments. In the meantime, the Slovenian government, which announced that the celebration of State holidays would be reduced. The holidays are staying here, but we're not celebrating them. On the other hand, the festivals are to celebrate them, to remember events and, on the other hand, to glorify people who have had a rather dubious role in the past, and that has been discussed here today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Please, you still want to answer. Please, Mr. Zbogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u97	No, I just want to clarify or clarify if it wasn't clear enough. The Ministry did not prohibit the celebration of State holidays. Each year so far, the Ministry of Statehood has allocated additional funds. With the representation of each representative, he received additional funds for the celebration. This time we have not earmarked these additional funds. And that's all we've decided. However, we have left each representation to decide whether to organise this reception from the regular means it has, or from the sponsors or, as you say, in a modest form, which does not necessarily cost much. And many embassies or representations have done so. Unfortunately, the consulate in Trieste didn't do it. As the ministry itself, we were aware that this reception in Trieste would not occur, but we were informed too late. Therefore, at the end of the year, the new Consul General in Trieste has now organised a reception which should otherwise be in June. I think next week this reception will be for the Slovenian minority and the Italian administration in Trieste.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar will also answer Dr. Luke Juri's question regarding arbitration and the agreement concluded between the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you very much, President. At the previous meeting, Mr Juri asked for a comparison between the arbitration agreement and the special agreement or a proposal for a special agreement, as established after the earlier meeting. Thus, I would say that the negotiations on the proposal for a special agreement, as well as on the arbitration agreement, took place on the basis of identical, basic points adopted by the Government in the initiative for the conclusion of the two agreements and endorsed by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which is based on the principle of fairness, respect for the situation on 25 June and, at the same time, the resolution of the land and maritime part of the border. Of course, there are also significant differences between the two agreements or the draft agreement. The proposal for a special agreement provided for the possibility to refer the dispute to three institutions: the Interstate Court in The Hague, the 'ad hoc' arbitration tribunal or the permanent arbitral tribunal. And there was no agreement on a forum where this was supposed to turn itself in with Croatia. The arbitration agreement provides that the forum to decide this is "ad hoc" arbitration, this is an arbitral tribunal. Regarding the subject matter of the dispute, the arbitration agreement contains Slovenian requirements for the land and maritime border to be addressed simultaneously, in order to determine the contact of Slovenia with the high seas and to establish specific arrangements for the use of marine areas, such as fishing, environmental, navigation and the like. The special task of the court is to determine the contact of Slovenia with the high seas, and the proposal for a special agreement to contact Slovenia with the high seas is not so explicitly mentioned. As regards the law applied in the arbitration agreement, there is no explicit reference to the principle of "ex aequo et bono" or external justice as translated. However, the principle of fairness is described, namely that the Court of Arbitration must apply the principle of good-neighbourly relations in order to reach a fair decision in its dealings with the open sea and in establishing regimes in addition to international law and justice and must respect all relevant circumstances. In addition, in the preamble itself, both parties undertake to respect the principle or their vital interests. The proposed text and the Slovenian text in the draft of this special agreement shall include only a reference for the court to rule in the dispute primarily on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 38 of the Statute of the Interstate Court. Therefore, in addition to the emphasis on primary and not exclusive judgment on the basis of "ex aequo et bono", it is important to stress that Croatia has also always opposed such a decision on this basis, and in this respect I think that we have achieved what was not possible in the negotiations on the proposal for a special agreement. It should also be borne in mind that the draft proposed by the Slovenian side to Croatia by a specific agreement was the basis for negotiations. Croatia replied with its draft, which was different. And if an agreement had ever been reached, it certainly would not have been on the basis of a Slovenian draft. By signing and ratifying the arbitration agreement, Croatia also expressly recognises that its unilateral actions have no legal effect or cannot have the effect of prejudicing a solution to the border issue and cannot be taken into account by the court when deciding on the border. In the negotiations under the Mixed Commission, while there was agreement between the two parties that the border issue should be resolved as a whole, it is said to be a border on land and sea at the same time as the principle of the implementation of the critical date 25. 6. In 1991, however, no agreement was reached on either the forum or the scope and formulation of the subject matter of the dispute and the determination of substantive law. More than I said before, the President's proposal remained only at the level of the draft Slovenian and Croatian sides. However, Croatia was different in essential elements. The signed agreement and the arbitration agreement also lays down elements on which consensus could not be reached within the mandate of the Joint Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Dr. Luke Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you for your answer, but I would like to complement the response in the direction which of the two agreements provides Slovenia with a better negotiating position or greater opportunities to realize its interests, such as access to the open sea. This issue is important because we have heard criticism of this arbitration agreement by many who have supported or even co-formed the Flemish agreement. According to this logic, if someone who has co-founded an agreement then opposes a different one, this alternative arrangement should provide less advantage to Slovenia or provide a worse negotiating basis than the previous one. According to your initial reply, however, the arbitration agreement seems to provide a significantly better position for Slovenia than the Flemish agreement, especially because it describes the principle of "ex aequo et bono", the principle of fairness and mentions in writing the fact that the arbitral tribunal will also decide on the contact of Slovenia with the open sea, i.e. on the link of Slovenia, but not only on access. After all, as far as I know, the arbitral tribunal decides faster and more effectively than the Interstate Court in The Hague decides. So please, if you can complete the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u103	In both cases, the decision is made by the third party. So that this obvious fact that we leave the decision to someone else and we don't know what the decision is going to be is gone because in any case we would leave the decision to the third party if we went to the Interstate Court in The Hague or if we were going to an arbitration agreement. If we leave the decision to the third party, Slovenia will have a much greater impact through the arbitration agreement on the decision than it would have in the interstate court. In the arbitration agreement, Slovenia will have its own arbitrator, who will determine it. With regard to the other three arbitrators, Slovenia will be involved in the decision, it will have to give its consent that there will be three or three other members of this arbitration, in addition to Slovenia and Croatia. So Slovenia has an active policy in the design of the court, and Slovenia has no influence in the inter-state court. Third time. The arbitral tribunal, especially the ad hoc arbitral tribunal, is much more flexible than the interstate court. The Interstate Court is more strict, less flexible in its decision-making and the arbitration is much more open to all other elements, including the political elements linked to 1918, as mentioned by Mr Jelinčič, so is the historical circumstances that have contributed. This is also the direction of the Court to take into account all these other elements, descriptive justice, as we say, relevant historical explanations, to take into account the vital interests of both countries, and we know what the vital interests of Slovenia are. Lawyers with whom we consult, including foreigners, say that descriptive justice and guidance to judges is probably better than the very undeclared principle of "ex aequo et bono", on which judges should first agree and give it some content. Here, however, the content is already predetermined in the agreement itself. I agree with you that this agreement very specifically requires the court to determine the contact. And contact can only be one. It's not access, it's not contact, but it's contact, it's "junction" as translated. I think there are a lot of elements in this arbitration agreement that can inspire us with some confidence that the court will be [[...]] [[Warning for the end of the debate.]] the limit as we see it and as it has been in the past. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar will answer Milenko Ziherl's question regarding the incident in the Gulf of Piran. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u105	Thank you very much. At the previous meeting, Ambassador Zicherl asked about the incident that took place in the Gulf of Piran on 7 November when Croatian fishing boats arrived in the Gulf of Piran. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs was informed on the same day by the Minister, and I was informed of the incident myself, but we also received a written message from the competent authorities on 11 November, which was supplemented on 18 November. The report states, inter alia, that the Slovenian fishermen had already warned the crew of the Croatian fishing vessel, which during the course of the voyage, had been sweeping boats with the Croatian flag along the imaginary central line in Piranska Bay, as well as the crew of the Croatian police patrol boat, that they were in Slovenian waters and that they should leave the Slovenian area as soon as possible. Both vessels also took note of the warning, so that no major incident occurred. After a detailed examination of the official report, the foreign ministry also sent a protest note to the Croatian Embassy in Ljubljana in connection with that event. The incident did not involve any official policy of the Croatian government in order to inform the European Presidency.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. I am certainly grateful to this diary that I can have a proposal for an arbitration agreement in hand. I agree with the Minister that it is unlikely that this has escaped from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that there may be someone else, perhaps even from a government office. In the question I referred to Article 9, second indent, but perhaps even more important is Article 10, the first indent, which says: 'The Contracting Parties abstain from all acts or statements which could further exacerbate or endanger the work of the arbitral tribunal." And I think we could certainly put this action in Article 10, first indent. This is what you mentioned, that the report was a search of some border that has not yet been established, but the media also talk about verbal contacts. On the side of the journalist HTV came a threat of 40,000 illegally laid tourist weekends of Slovenian owners on the Croatian coast, which will be demolished as soon as possible. And maybe it would still show when these meetings were the prime ministers and the prime minister and when the matter may have just started moving somehow, even though in our opinion [[..]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] not in the most correct direction, this is also the opinion of eminent lawyers expressing concern about the third chapter and both articles. [[...]] Certainly. [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer any further questions? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u109	It was a private initiative, an initiative of fishermen, which the Croatian police were merely monitoring for safety. When the Slovenian police were warned that they were in the Slovenian sea, they also left it. You are right that the first part of Article 10 refers to such matters, but if the Croatian authorities carried out acts that would endanger negotiations. This was not the case in this case and there was no need to refer to this article. Regarding the threat to Slovenian owners in Istria, of course, a person probably says a lot when he is angry, so he would not take it literally. In any event, we expect Croatia, as a candidate for the European Union, to have a legal state in place and that foreign property is as protected as the property of its citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Henrik Gjerkš will answer the question of Franz Pukšič regarding the successful use of European funds by means of the so-called 5th public tender for the period 2009-2013. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, Members, Mr Puksic. With regard to your question, I would like to explain further the circumstances regarding the publication of the fifth call for proposals for priority guidance for the Regional Development Programmes, the development priorities for the Development of the Regions under the Operational Programme for the Strengthening of Regional Development Potentials for the period 2007-2013. The delay in the publication of the fifth public tender to call for funds for the period 2010 to 2012 is entirely objective, with more reasons. The first reason is that the Ministry of Government of the Republic of Slovenia has actively prepared simplifications and changes in the system of implementation of cohesion policy for local self-government and regional policy in the function of the managing authority, and part of these changes is already in the implementation phase. The changes will accelerate the future absorption of European funds in all areas, not just in the priority area of the Regional Development Programmes. Among other things, changes are being made in the promotion of flat-rate operations for indirect costs, changes in the instructions on eligible costs, reporting, information and validation of instruments, monitoring of revenue on projects, justifying value added tax and so on. All these new conditions and rules will have to be taken into account in the preparation of all future calls for proposals. The second reason why the fifth call has not yet been published is due to the findings of the audit review of the implementation of this development priority in 2007 and 2008 by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which delivered an opinion on the implementation of the development priority subject to reservation and an audit review of the implementation of the development priority in 2007 and 2008 by the Ministry of Finance - the Office for Budgetary Control. The findings of the two audit bodies show some confusion in the selection of the legal basis for the implementation of the operational programme. In doing so, the Government's service examined concrete solutions and proposals for action with the European Commission. The common findings show that the Government service will carry out further activities with an instrument that will ensure full compliance with all national and European rules governing the use of European Community funds in the Republic of Slovenia. The third reason for the postponement is that the operational programme is at the halfway point in time and at the expense of the funds paid. The government service therefore checks the consistency of regional priority projects on the one hand with the objectives of regional development programmes, as well as with the objectives of the operational programme to strengthen regional development potentials for the period 2007-2013. On the basis of the findings of this review and external evaluations carried out, the Office of the Government of the Regions will propose appropriate corrections to the implementation plans, as appropriate. The beneficiaries will be able to submit their projects only after the implementation plans have been approved. We expect that the 5th invitation to tender will be issued early next year. In this regard, it is worth noting once again that only those projects that will have all the appropriate permits to intervene in the area and that their own parts of the requested co-financing will be provided in the applicable third part of the municipal budget or in the development programme plan can be reported on the 5th invitation to tender. On 12 June this year, the Government Service launched a public call for the co-financing of development tasks for development promoters at regional level 2009 and the preparation of regional development programme implementation plans for 2010-2012, with the launch in the regions of a process of coordination and preparation of three-year implementation plans for regional development programmes, in this case for the period 2010-2012. The preparation of three-year implementation plans shall be subject to the fourth paragraph of Article 14 of the Regulation on Regional Development Programmes. For the period 2010-2012, the government service has tendered for some more than €203 million for the priority direction in question, which is also in line with budgetary options. The remaining funds, which will not be covered by the contracts referred to in the previous four calls for proposals and the remaining funds, which are indicatively earmarked for the operational programme, will be allocated to the regions by means of an instrument [[End warning sign]] who will follow this and is currently in preparation. On the issue of pension legislation, I explain that active communication is currently under way within the coalition. And I've already pointed out many times that I'm going to be [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Gjerkesh. Mr. Pukšič, would you like another answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister and other government representatives present! From courtesy to the Minister, so that he can at least tell his answer by the end, because he is running out of time, I will give this opportunity and an opportunity with an additional question. Mr. Minister, there was no 5th invitation to tender. That's a fact. The year 2009 is behind us. The second year, if the fifth public tender were to be launched, would not take place, you said that only at the beginning of next year. I'd like to know if it's January, or the first quarter, or the first half of the beginning of next year. Another time. A call that will then, but I really didn't hear it for that last part, 12 to 13 and the rest. How do you plan on doing that? The fact is that municipalities with smaller budgets will no longer be able to run, because they will not be able to provide a large share of their own, i.e. the project must be worth at least EUR 400,000 and thus the whole project can fall in individual municipalities from 2007 onwards and will not be reimbursed from the European funds of this in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. But the fact is, given that you yourself mentioned four, five reasons why there was no invitation to tender, but also a question, Mr Minister: What is going on in government when State Secretary Andrej Jerina can do something outside of what you agree on at the Ministry? And you've reacted very strongly to her performance yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u114	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll be brief. I have announced several times that there will be a fifth invitation to tender, that the designation of this instrument will still have to be defined, in January. On the question of how to act, we will draw up a guide or we have already drawn it up to have an absolute advantage over completed projects that are already being prepared. In this concept, such projects will have an advantage of €203 million, while the remainder, i.e. this indicative sum and the remainder of the first five public calls, will be presented in the context of the sixth public call, which we are also preparing and will, once we define the objectives of the operational programme to strengthen regional development potentials through the implementation plans, also be announced. On the third question. Andrej Jerina is not at the service of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, but at the SVREZ. It is true, however, that this matter was just about the fifth public tender we had to deal with through Brussels and not in our own house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Since you can regulate in your own houses, because we have placed you here in the National Assembly and we call you back here, given that you wrote yourself that in this case Andrej Jerin, of course I will not quote everything that I wrote in the letter, also personally responds and will block the activities that you are seeking and which you, together with the Director of the Directorate for Development, have agreed on 23 October, and when signed, after a telephone conversation, it has been blocked together, I will propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that we hold a debate on this in the National Assembly. In addition, because it is simply impossible for municipalities with completed projects, where construction permits could be carried out, because the funds are distributed in the regions, and if you sign them 200 million not 300, but as many as are available within the regions, they cannot obtain funds for the whole project, even though within the regions, regional development and the world of the regions have distributed the key, and then the level of resources, in what way and how much resources can be used by any of the municipalities. And given that this is such an important material, we are talking about some 300 million euros in regional development, and today the 300 and 450 projects that are under way are burdened by the state budget, and you have not yet sent claims for reimbursement from the European Union, due to these terrible disagreements within the government. One of the reasons was the resignation of the former Minister because she simply did not survive this, so we will help you to clarify this issue here in the National Assembly and also to tell whom that the President of the Government will probably have to consider a replacement.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u118	If I understand you correctly, Mr Pukšič, you have proposed a hearing. Therefore, the proposal by Mr Puksic to hold a debate on the response of Minister Gjerkesh will be discussed. The vote tomorrow, Tuesday, 15 December, as part of the vote. Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič will answer Mr Ivan Grill's question regarding the action of the Red Cross of Slovenia against the Republic of Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u119	Thank you so much for asking. I could be very short in response. An action of the Red Cross against the Ministry or against the State was brought 28. 2. 2006. The Red Cross of Slovenia then led as President Dr. Janez Remškar. After Dr. Janez Remskar, I took over the Red Cross. The dispute is in court and a settlement is envisaged. On the whole, the Ministry of Health has authorised and left the Republic of Slovenia's judiciary to resolve this dispute, given that we were the two previous presidents in the Red Cross and that we may be unobjective or difficult to decide for this reason. Thus, the matter is in the settlement process, the settlement is led by the state defence and neither by Dr Remškar nor by me nor by the Ministry of Justice in this settlement.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Miklavčič will answer Mrs Mag's question. Julian Bizjak Mlakar in connection with administrative controls. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u121	The introductory text of the draft law describes the state of organisation of public health activities resulting from the various development factors in the last seventeen years. So in the period after 1992, when the current Health Act was adopted. These ministries cannot be abolished overnight because there is a need for systemic changes or a new law on health care. The Health Activity Act, which was adopted in 1992, allowed private health activities to be carried out and, in this regard, laid down certain conditions, but was also in many ways inconsistent, in particular with the legal provisions on the award of concessions and in particular the role and importance of private health activities in relation to public. In 1992, the new legislation allowed for private initiative and practice, without determining how this should fit into the entire healthcare system. In view of the lack of experience in the award of concessions in municipalities, the lax legal regime and the absence of a development strategy and criteria for establishing a network of public health activities, the award of concessions took place in a rather non-systematic and unsupervised manner. It should also be added that a few years after the transition in general in Slovenia, there was a strong belief among many politicians and economists that the privatisation of health activities was a way out of financial and organisational problems, which made concessions perceived from the perspective of such thinking. At a certain time, it was also the opinion that health homes had survived and that we no longer needed them because all their activities could be taken over by concessionaires. Given the current situation, the Ministry’s view is that the administrative controls it would carry out in this situation are not a measure that could significantly help improve the situation. The fact is that the municipalities did not violate the law by granting concessions, but there was damage by the breakdown of health homes. There is no mechanism for the Ministry to withdraw the concession and send the doctor back to the healthcare home. In the last year, the Ministry carried out 11 administrative controls. All administrative controls have been carried out in order to verify the legality of the functioning of public health institutions. In doing so, the administrative oversight committees focused primarily on verifying the conformity of internal acts in institutions with the applicable legislation and at the same time on the actual situation in the institution, the organisation of the duty station, the systemisation act, the translation of salaries into the new pay system, the tendering procedures, the conclusion and implementation of contracts with external employees and so on. With regard to your question regarding measures to prevent new infringements and to remedy the situation in the field [[End warning sign]] private health activities and concessions, overtime and business contracts of doctors and other health workers, we explain that the Ministry has repeatedly issued letters, as well as a direct warning at meetings [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ma'am mag. Biszakova, would you like to complete your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you to complete the answer. At the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, Mr Minister confirmed, on my question, the existence of a violation of the law relating to the degradation of health homes due to the concessions granted, as well as to the misuse of public funds, time and personnel in public health, in favour of the private earnings of healthcare providers. In the meantime, such violations as working without permission, breaking laws, were listed in these laws: on working time and other laws. There have been confirmed violations of a number of laws resulting from the mixing of public and private health activities. With regard to the exercise of administrative control powers, however, the Minister said that he had no knowledge that he would carry out those controls or that he did not know what he could do about illegality. It's been two months since then. I hope it's taken a step further. However, we did not really know that anything in this area would have been done because the illegalities are specifically mentioned there. In fact, it is the duty of the Minister to act, to protect the health of the population, to protect the public interest, and finally to deal with matters of the rule of law. I am concerned that the proposal for a new Health Act legalises the current illegal breakdown of health homes and also legalises the interference of the public and private in favour of the private and to the detriment of the public. I wonder if there may also be a reason that, despite the illegalities that have been known, so far there have been no measures, not against doctors, nor against other offenders. In fact, I think it's a bad signal to the public that doctors and other lawbreakers are in. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u125	At the moment, we do not have a health care provider in Slovenia who does not have a work permit for this. One is a health home and one is a concessionaire who has obtained a concession. 33 health homes in Slovenia do not meet the conditions laid down by the old law. I can't go to any municipality, you have a lot of mayors in the National Assembly, go to the mayors. How am I supposed to go to the congregation and get the concessionaires who have a valid contract in force back to the healthcare home? I can't, so we're making a new marriage and we're going to be in front of the National Assembly with a new marriage. Everyone works with permission, especially where there is a mistake in professional work, or where there is a wrong charging of services to payers, compulsory and voluntary insurance. The nursing home that was blown up, I can't get it back. But if you know, honourable Member, how am I supposed to do this, I will take my time and please, if you will help me with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Since the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšič, is rightly absent, he will answer the question posed by Zvonka Laha at the previous meeting. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Mr Miro Petek will ask the Minister of Economy a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to commend the Minister of Economy, Dr. Mate Lahovnik, for having received the Acer agency of Slovenia, which is a wonderful achievement on his part. It is a respected institution and in Slovenia there are really good jobs. And this is indeed an important achievement especially in the light of the fact that we can speak in this government today on the one hand about its negotiating incompetence and, on the other hand, its pathological narcissism. Mr. Lakhovnik, congratulations. And now for the question. In the last month, the event in the Slovenian Republic has escalated, when owners who in a rather strange situation have acquired ownership, of course once social ownership, and consequently to great wealth, cannot agree between themselves on who would have more, and in doing so the company is unrestrainedly wooded to the bottom. Hundreds of jobs are at risk not only in Koroška but throughout Slovenia. It is clear to me that this is a private company. I know very well that the country has no great influence or power here. She had this power in the past when some strange property broke down in Slovenia. Unfortunately, the policies of this economic elite of suspicious origin did not come to their fingertips and were always untouchable. In the blackest scenario, the story of Mura can be repeated in Koroška, and Koroška can wait for the fate of Pomurje. However, Koroška is already in great developmental difficulties, which are only exacerbated. Employees and workers are not guilty of having such an imprudent, unfair, often highly suspicious ownership of businesses, but today they are paying the highest price in this regard. Employees in Prevention sometimes worked up to 12 hours, and in summer heats, they often landed in the hospital for unconsciousness. Dear Minister, the situation in Koroška, in the White landscape and where they are quite acute. You have already received a proposal from the Government for an intervention law from the White Country, similar to the law on development support to Pomurje. I'm asking you: Is the government ready for any other environment in Slovenia, any other region? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Have you had a similar economic breakdown, or are you preparing a similar law for these regions as for Pomurje? [[...]] Will you try to solve these problems by taking other measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Commissioner Miro Petek is asking about a very topical matter that relates directly to Prevent and indirectly to the overall economic situation in Koroška. I fully agree with you that the situation in Prevent is serious. Unfortunately, the country, or fortunately - however it turns, is not the owner there, but it is true that workers and workers are the hostages of the irresponsible conduct of both owners, especially the majority owner, who has scissors and canvas here to move things forward, but obviously things do not happen. And prevention today is not so much in crisis because of the crisis itself, but because of unresolved relations between owners. With regard to the situation, which is actually quite serious, it is true that there are almost 1300 jobs at risk and that a large majority of jobs can be solved if an appropriate agreement is reached and there will continue to be an appropriate volume of transactions by the contracting authorities, which is possible if the relations between the owners are resolved. With regard to the broader question of what this actually means for Koroška or whether the Government thinks of a similar law, it is true, as you correctly note, that a similar initiative has come from the White Country to prepare a special law on the promotion of the development of the White Land, as it was prepared for Pomurje. The same question now arises in this case, or you point to it. I must say that only the issue of the drafting of the law falls within the department of the Ministry of Local Self-Government or Minister Gjerkesh, so that I can give my opinion. I believe that these issues must also be addressed in the other areas in a comprehensive way, within the framework of the umbrella law. In view of the fact that a specific law has already been applied in one case, the legitimate right of the other parts is, of course, to expect similar developments to take place, to be treated in the same way. From this point of view, of course, Koroška cannot be an exception or be in a worse position than some other parts. I believe that the areas lagging behind the average of the Republic of Slovenia, and Pomurje is actually the least developed, and then practically the White landscape is then also far behind Koroška, promoting either systematically through the roof law or by special law, as was the case with Pomurje. What will be the final decision of the government or the departmental ministry, I find it difficult to say at this point. I agree, however, that further regional incentives must ensure the development of this area, especially since, in fact, the situation in similar societies such as Prevent cannot be affected, even though I myself, I must say, I have spoken to all the key players in this story. The result or causes are exactly as you describe them. In fact, this is the result of ownership in Slovenia, which occurred when we received certain owners from the company, which were not part of this role or were part of the privatisation process, and later did not ensure the proper development of the company, and we are in fact in a situation where one of the largest companies is not only in Koroška but also in Slovenia, there is neither an adequate ownership structure nor an appropriate development model. I personally expect that, given the situation and the great importance that Prevention for Koroška has, as well as Slovenia Gradec, the owners will still be able to come to an appropriate solution, because the current situation is indeed in some way unsustainable, where we have a situation where the largest owner receives millions of euro offers, with regard to the sale of his share, this is not decided. And we're in a situation where he doesn't offer some kind of developmental solution, but 1,300 workers and workers are actually prisoners of it. I expect the owners to do their job in this particular case as well. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u131	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm glad you've been so involved in this problem yourself. Prime Minister Borut Pahor recently announced the loss of unemployment as a major achievement in the coming year. Of today's 95 thousand, 100,000, of the 120 thousand unemployed. In Koroška, however, unemployment increased by 50% to 60% in individual municipalities. And, of course, in Koroška we are not happy, we cannot rejoice, we cannot rejoice. You'll remember the Minister. In the early 90 ’ s, Koroška solved her problems with the help of the State. The rescue of iron was very hard for employees and also for the country. It was primarily very expensive for the country, but it was worth it. During the time when the country was saving the steel industry in Koroškem or in general in Slovenia, Prevent grew in the Thinkinska Valley. Remember Jože Kozmus, Janko Zakeršnik received the highest recognition of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Mr Janko Zakeršnik was hand-tied by Mr Milan Kučan at the time of his release in 2001. Two days later, there was an assassination on me. Just by the way. For Koroška today all jobs, including sewing, are important, although this work is of rather low added value, but it is better than nothing. That's why I'm asking you: How will you distinguish an important difference, that is, with the help of the state or state banks, you will not save the tycoons, but try to save jobs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u132	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u133	In this particular case, Preventa is exactly as you described. It is true that the majority owner acts as you stated, and that is the problem. I expect him to show so much social responsibility that he himself will contribute to an agreement. We have a situation where we have two owners who practically don't communicate with each other. They are both very wealthy, and in fact they do not risk much in this story, nor do they lose anything. Over the past years, the three biggest owners of Prevent have already diverted a lot of cash flows into a whole range of other investments. They have also made a substantial financial recovery from this title. Today, in fact, workers and workers are the ones who are at full risk, and that is also why spontaneous strike has occurred because executive directors and employees have estimated that this is no longer the case. I do not think that in any case, when we are talking about Prevention, a country, even if it had a share of ownership, should be able to save owners. The owners have already recovered well in recent years at the expense of created cash flows. What remains in Prevent and can be solved is in any case also under the assurances of the largest buyer 800 to 900 jobs, provided that an agreement is reached among the owners. In this case, too, it is a fact that we will face a certain number of redundant jobs, especially in specific areas where unemployment is already forecast to increase. Also from this title, your question is justifiable because what Mura meant, for example, for the Murska Sobota area, means some other bankruptcy or bankruptcy of one of the Prevent stations for another place in Koroška. Now I do not want to predict what will happen and to be needlessly intimidated, but of course we must be realistic. And as I said, we are fully aware that, in fact, under a scenario that is optimistic, 800 to 900 jobs can be provided. We are in a situation where we still need normal social responsibility for both the majority and the other owners. Whether this will happen, I believe that this will happen in the coming days, because it is hard to imagine how people who, at the expense of Preventa as owners, will continue to live in this area if they do not show themselves [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am satisfied with the answer. Nevertheless, I would urge Members to support tomorrow's proposal for a debate on the response of Minister Lahovnik. Let us open the door to a deeper and more time-consuming discussion of this issue, because it is an extremely big problem and Mr Lahovnik knows this well, and his colleague, Irma Pavlinič Krebs, knows things well. And I think it would be helpful for all of us to discuss this at the National Assembly meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Petk's proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 15 December 2009, in the framework of the votes. Mr. Jerovšek, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask if the Zares Group and the LDS stepped out of the government because they are also boycotting their minister's performance. I know that Mr. Minister has identified himself against the political games of his parliamentary group and coalition that he has angered his parliamentary group, but I would still like to ask you this question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u138	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u139	clarify whether these two parties who boycott Parliament's work without a forecast are still in the government coalition, because we are otherwise facing a serious government crisis in this country and this is a very important issue. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. I'm gonna do it like I didn't hear anything. This was an abuse of the procedural question. I've misunderstood before, Mr. Friday, there will be no discussion about your proposal, will there? Is that what you wanted? You commended the Minister's response and therefore I felt that you did not insist. However, I would also like to ask the other debaters, even in two cases now I have asked whether you also want a debate because it was not clear whether or not. Here in this case, there would almost be no debate and there is no debate. Thank you. Mr Silven Majhenič will ask the Minister for Environment and Space, who is excusedly absent today. Do you want to ask a question anyway? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u141	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. The implementation of pilot measures to reduce the pollution of drinking water in the Maribor region for 2007, 2010 is a well-established programme for cleaner drinking water in this area, which brings a number of measures, which concern the living population in this sensitive area in particular those who have been engaged in intensive farming for decades. There are over 1,000 of these in this area, and only in Dobrovci, located in the Municipality of Dravž in Dravsko Polje, 28 families who grow are now in uncertainty, although these farms have been in this area for generations and have served for decades only by farming. Of course, such measures, which place farmers in uncertainty, must not be left unobserved by the State and left to the mercy and apathy of the congregation of Miklavž in the Drava Field. On the basis of a Regulation which entered into force 1. 1. 2008 for areas in the first, second and third water protection zones, inspection services could have started to operate in the previous year, but this is not the case, since the country did not ensure that farmers wishing to grow continue to receive aid that would allow farming in a more acceptable manner and would allow a socio-economic aspect of a more acceptable solution. It is difficult to assess what all this means to improve drinking water, but when we know that in Dobrovci nitrate levels are still rising, the recovery of these is long and lasts for at least 5 years. Of course, I wonder: Why has the country not already taken care to restructure these farms, which are dependent on farming, to help them move to a more acceptable way of farming, thus contributing immediately to a more effective prevention of groundwater pollution, but started with measures which, of course, follow the law? Date 1. 1. 2011 brings a legal ban on fertilisation with organic fertilisers and pesticides and therefore awareness, informing the various target audiences in the pilot area is essential in integrating them into individual phases of the project. Restructuring of agricultural holdings, preparation of model options, different types of agricultural management based on actual data is necessary and necessary immediately. If we want to follow the legal provisions and measures that we see, they are based on the basis that only consistent implementation ensures the results that have been set in line with the legal order in Slovenia and with particular emphasis on the amendments made by the revised Drinking Water Directive, taking into account the fact that the acquis of the European Union is at the same time the legal order of Slovenia and is adequately binding on the State of Slovenia. The local community is committed to providing quantitative and qualitatively appropriate drinking water and it is therefore right to contribute to cleaner water in all local communities located in the geographical area of the water system. So I ask: Is the problem of farmers farming in the water protection area just the problem of the municipality where they grow or live, or all of them? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u142	Thank you very much. You want a written answer, okay. Mr Bojan will ask the Minister of Economy a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Minister and other ministers, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the question of the Member State, which is also closely linked to the fate of people living in Koroška elsewhere in Slovenia as one of the previous ones, I could ask the question in order to ask the Minister whether he had sought answers to the questions raised by the President of the Government in connection with the sale of the Slovenian steel industry in the previous term. However, because there is probably more to be said about this, let me briefly present the problem that I want the Minister to speak about and express his opinion. As is known, the government sold the majority share of the Slovenian steel industry for EUR 105 million. It's 55%, as was then discovered, of equity. That's about as much as it was then, two years ago, cash flow in this company. In addition, the buyer paid this price by means of loans rented with the Slovenian Bank and shares of the Slovenian steel industry were invested in the guarantee. It was also interesting that we were talking about €105 million at the time, and the buyer's website at the time was €300 million. So the difference was obvious. It is true, though, that soon after this was discussed in the National Assembly, this information disappeared from the Web site. In all of this, I am particularly interested in the fate of small shareholders, who point out that they have been played at this sale and are looking for a solution in court. But so far, of course, they are not the most successful. Of all of us, who have been alerted to these problems in the previous term, they are, of course, referring to the question whether we are ready to answer their questions in this mandate, when we manage the country. I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I really know this problem relatively well. It is true that 55.35% of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in the Slovenian steel industry was sold. According to the government's sales programme, which defined the subject matter, objectives and methods of sale, this sale was carried out in accordance with Article 2 of the Law on the Privatisation of Slovenian Ironworks and on the basis of the international publication of the public tendering. The former government then confirmed the selection of the most favourable bidder, Dilon d.o.o. which was guaranteed by Cox. It should be known that, on the basis of the signed contract between the buyer, Dilon, the guarantor and the Republic of Slovenia, the implementation of the contract obligations of the buyer can also be assessed on a regular basis on the basis of the written reports of the buyer, which will be definitively verified in the second half of 2010. So far, it has not been established that there are substantive irregularities in the implementation of contractual commitments. As far as the sale process itself is concerned, it was carried out and we cannot influence it, nor can we reverse it. It's about the small shareholders' lawsuit. This lawsuit is in court. The fact is, small shareholders had the opportunity, as did all the other shareholders, those who accepted the offer, to accept the price at which the State sold it. Part of the small shareholders accepted this, I think, mainly in the Jesenic area, but part of it was not decided, you were silent in the Koroška area and decided to sue. This lawsuit is still pending. The result is difficult to predict. Legal services at the Ministry ensure that the procedure was such that the complainants have no possibility of success of the action. I must say that basically we can now discuss how to privatise, whether it would be better to sell each individual subsidiary individually, but the previous government has decided to make this privatisation through the Slovenian Steel Industry Holding, and has sold a share of the holding company. At the same time, it was also possible for small shareholders to sell their shares. Would you get more if you sold each subsidiary individually, or as they sold holding company as a whole, there are different estimates on this. Also, the information about the cash flow you mentioned is held as soon as possible. The current government cannot or does not have the authority to reverse the procedure. However, if we are talking about the rights of an individual group of shareholders, we do not currently have any legal basis for the State, for example, to buy from the foreign acquirer, for example, at a higher price or to cover the difference in price, which they consider justified. The offer of a foreign taker was what it was, some accepted it, some not. These have remained in society and continue to have their share of ownership. Right now, we don't have the legal basis to pay them anything. And they would also discriminate against the other shareholders who accepted the offer. It is true that there were also legal initiatives, but, as I said, the problem with these initiatives is that, on the one hand, proceedings in court are ongoing and it is likely that, at the final stage, we now see what will be the outcome of these actions in court and whether the court will decide that they are entitled to any compensation. Once again, I stress that lawyers at the Ministry of the Economy find that they do not. However, it is difficult to go back to the privatisation process that took place in the previous term.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u147	Of course, Minister, I agree with you that it is impossible to cut into events that occurred so many years ago. But this contract, which was signed, also stated that the profit of the first three years is invested in the development of this company. I wonder: Do we have a review of whether the profits have been invested in the development of this society? And when we are talking about the Ministry of the Economy's path and forecasts that the outcome of the action is questionable, or that it is not questionable that the complainants will lose it, I wonder: Why does the Ministry of the Economy object to the decision to present the sales contract and the share agreement in this dispute? If this is true of what small shareholders point to, of course, there are many reasons for us to give serious consideration to the Commission of Inquiry in the National Assembly, which would review the decision-making and conduct of political officials at the time and also identify themselves to their responsibilities in this process.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u148	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u149	I myself wanted this contract to be public because it was a sale of state property. However, there is a clause in the contract that it is a condition for all details of the purchase contract to be disclosed, as well as the consent of the other parties, which is the buyer who did not give it, even when it was requested. Somehow they insist it's a contractual secret. In the previous term, I think the treaty was made available to the National Assembly for an overview. I would agree that it would actually be published in all those details, but if we disclose it ourselves, without the consent of the other party, we risk the action on their part. I cannot assume this responsibility because these amounts can reach considerable height. But in principle, I agree. As far as the Ministry of the Economy is concerned, we will continue to try to reach out to the buyer so that this contract will be disclosed, so that the public will have a legitimate view of all the elements of this Treaty in the final stage. As regards the investment cycle itself, the contract guardians at the Ministry of Economy shall ensure that the investment cycle takes place once in a row in accordance with the plans. This year, one of the major investments in Ravna was opened - I think it was about €15 million worth an investment, but I am actually very fond of the number. Thus far, there is no substantive reason to require any cancellation of the contract or payment of the penalty. As far as the contracts are concerned, as I said, I would like to see them published myself, but the publication itself without the approval of the other party is a risk. If we do so, we can face a lawsuit, which means potentially certain damages with an argument that we have revealed a business secret and so on. We can't do this without consent. Of course, if the National Assembly, as in the previous term, had requested, I think that at least most of these contracts, or almost all of them, were available in the National Assembly so that we could look at it at that time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Rado Likar will put the question to the Minister for Environment and Space, who is absent today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to ministers and ministers of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In view of the absence of Mr Minister, I expect that the oral answer will be given at the next meeting. In the business and financial plan of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, all the funds of the activities are shrinking, and the costs and, in particular, the salaries of officials are rising in line, so that in the rebalancing of the Fund's incomes have decreased from €81.5% to €23.8 million, housing loans have decreased by 98% to only €0.9 million, non-profit housing funds have decreased by 37%, to €4.7 million, and housing funds for the market by €76.3%, to €33.9 million. At the same time, the cost of operating the fund increased by 3.8% and the cost of salaries increased by 4.9%. I ask the Minister: How is it that the cost of doing business and wages increases with such a drastically reduced activity of the Housing Fund?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Of course you want an oral response. Mr Jakob Preseknik will ask the Minister of Public Administration a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! As I have already announced in writing, I would like to ask one question about the normative part of volunteering in the Republic of Slovenia. So, Your Honor, I'm going to ask you a question first. Dear Madam Secretary! I wonder: When will the Government put in the legislative procedure of the National Assembly a proposal for a law on volunteering, which, following the legislative programme adopted by the Government, which I have for this year, should have been submitted and dealt with long ago at the Government, and at this December meeting of the National Assembly, according to my information, it has already been definitively adopted. Where and what are the reasons for the ministry’s delay in regulating this important area? If I have the right data, it is one rare, perhaps even the only research in this area, in the area of voluntary work carried out by the Pedagogical Institute, which, as one of the urgent measures to improve the situation in the field of volunteering, proposed the adoption of a law on voluntary work which would define the general minimum conditions for carrying out an organised, organised work. Surely, the issue of volunteering is still ongoing, but certainly even more so today, when the various problems we are witnessing also have an impact, inter alia, on the social situation of individuals, on regulating the situation of individuals and groups, and at that time in particular. Volunteering in the Republic of Slovenia works in various areas of social life: social, sports, recreational, educational, health, cultural, environmental, tourism, crisis situations such as firefighters, rescue workers and many others. It's done by women and men, old, young and children. It shall include all of them, taking into account their capacity, as there are no fundamental limits to it. Volunteering creates opportunities for the active action of citizens in society. It is of great importance to the community as it improves the quality of life in society, defends the interests of individuals and groups at risk, disadvantaged, marginalized or excluded. Volunteering is one of the basic ways of responding to the needs of civil society, as it cannot do everything by itself. Volunteering is of great importance for development and for the future, as it contributes to the development of values of solidarity, to social and other progress of society. Thank you in advance for the appropriate response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Dear Member, Mr President, I am absolutely evaluating personally at the Ministry, and the Government also estimates that the regulatory framework for the better functioning of the non-governmental sector and volunteers in the Republic of Slovenia is finally after all these years of talking about the need to prepare it and I have no doubt that it will be adopted in the National Assembly. With the ambition to succeed already in 2009, we also launched the 2009 programme. As you know, at the end of November, we took up a mandate. We immediately prepared a programme to enable it to be adopted by the National Assembly and then in 2009 there were important tasks ahead of the current government, the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. This was one of the important obstacles that we have not been able to draw up a proposal for a regulation. Another important obstacle is that we have not prepared any consequences for the adoption of such a regulation at the Ministry of Public Administration, nor at the Ministry of Finance, when searching for analyses and bases, so that we can better regulate this area as well as at the Ministry of Finance. Unquestionably, NGOs have already addressed the former government with a proposal for a Voluntary Act. This proposal also contained expectations of what non-governmental organisations want in the field of volunteering to regulate the government or the state. One of the requirements was not only the legal framework, i.e. the regulation, but also better material conditions for the development of volunteering. They expect the country to register and evaluate voluntary work as a material contribution from volunteers and volunteers, their organisations, to provide financial resources to subsidise the costs of volunteer work and to develop voluntary work at both national, regional and local levels. They then taxed some funds to provide them with the costs of voluntary insurance, training, the costs of organising volunteer work, mentoring, promotion, the costs of measures, security, other costs and so on. An important part of which I also agree personally that a regulation defining volunteerism and, on the other hand, the State would not provide tax reliefs or other types of subsidies to the concerned volunteers would not achieve a fundamental purpose. The discussions with the Ministry of Finance on the preparation of the financial impact analysis led us to a conclusion in the crisis year 2009, even if we had drawn up a legal framework and complied with all these rather relevant requirements of non-governmental organisations, the State would not be able to provide funds in terms of tax incentives and other requirements that I have imposed under this bill. Active analyses of the consequences of such a regulation are currently under way. Our ambition, however, is that, with appropriate solutions, including financial incentives for this work, in 2010, before the 2011 volunteer year, we will adopt an appropriate legal framework in this National Assembly. [[...]] [[A warning for the end of the debate.]] Let's get this over with. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u157	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I understand that today, and I think that we celebrated this volunteer day a few days ago, and this has also led me to believe that we do not have legal arrangements in Slovenia, but I also assure you that we are already many years late, not just this year. Of course, I am also aware of the situation, the financial situation in the country and the wider that every law has a bearing on this part, but volunteering often, because we do not have it regulated, is faced with many organisational problems and, on the other hand, the possibility of some normative, although poorly heard, moral satisfaction. So thanks also to many groups of individuals and groups for this kind of activity, which is extremely useful and certainly in many environments means creating a better life, a better feeling in a much, much cheaper way than with some official paid institutions in the country. No matter what else you answer me now, I expect all of us in our country to resolve this problem as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u158	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr President, I always have a problem when, with the ambition of proposing a legislative framework, i.e. a normative framework for the operation of volunteers, after so many years, they have responded to this question in this country only through a normative framework that would not also bring appropriate subsidies, adequate recognition in a material sense for the work of volunteers. The expectations of these people, given the comparable arrangements in the countries around us, that is, volunteers, also go in the direction of material recognition of their efforts in a particular area. That is why I think it is right that the country's reflections in this direction are also thorough and the analysis is thorough. It is also undeniable that, Mr President, when you said whether it is necessary for all public institutions to operate in our country. Even in this work, i.e. the confidence in the performance of public tasks to the third sector against the payment of a particular programme, we are in fact far behind the comparable Member States of the European Union. With structural changes to be prepared in 2010, of course, by ministers working on public services in the field of so-called health, social, educational, school and other services, a thorough reflection on their ministries will go in the direction of how many of the new tasks the public institutions that provide these services today can no longer do, we will trust the third sector and will be financed through the programmes, and the actual ones operating in each area will also be fairly paid for their work. Last but not least, at our ministry in 2009, a state task, this is measuring administrative burdens, we will trust the public sector. Over €800,000 of European Structural Funds will be awarded to the public sector for this task, which is fully state-owned. This is the second phase of the five phases that the State is devoting to. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] for the implementation of the administrative burden-relief programme by 25% for 2011. [[...]] These are ways to recognise the third sector's true role in the Slovenian space.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Jeraj will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has been one of the more active ministries in this government, although it has not carried out a very large number of programmes that have been announced. However, some measures may or may be regarded as positive, but we also consider them to be more short-term, rather than structural shift measures, allow for greater flexibility and job creation. Despite some measures and intervention laws, the number of unemployed is increasing. At the end of October 2009, 94,591 unemployed persons were registered at the Employment Service, 51% more than in October 2008. Both of these intervention laws on partial full-time subsidisation and partial remuneration were favourably adopted by employers. You predicted that this would keep 20,000 jobs. I think that perhaps more could have been done if, by the example of Germany, we had adopted a short - term law or something like that. Today, the journal reports that, taking into account surveys on the unemployed, this number is even higher, estimated at 110 thousand unemployed. In these days, the Prime Minister has announced that our goal, or your goal, is 120 thousand unemployed. Here a person gets the feeling that you've already given up and you don't want to do anything else to really get to this number, because it's usually better to set goals, because then we're also better able to deal with problems. So I'm wondering, what's your unemployment forecast for the next three months? What measures are you planning at this time to reduce unemployment?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u162	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Member and Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The answer is as follows. In 2009, 29,939 unemployed persons applied to the Employment Institute in the first trimester and 16,496 unemployed persons applied. We estimate that in this year's first trimester, the inflow to the institution will be about a third, and the outflow will be equal to last year's, assuming 97 thousand unemployed at the end of 2009, so at the end of March 2010 in Slovenia, about 101 thousand people will be unemployed. As negative trends in employment will continue despite the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's forecast for macroeconomic relations on minimum positive economic growth in 2010, the 2010 and 2011 budget will increase funding for the implementation of active employment policy measures. To this end, we have prepared some new programmes at the Ministry for both years and have also strengthened the implementation of existing ones. Thus, the 2010 and 2011 draft Action Plan earmarks € 134 million for active employment policy in 2010. Of these, 64.4 million from the integrated budget and 69.6 million from the resources for the implementation of the operational programme for human resources development, i.e. from the European Social Fund. In 2011, this volume of 103.5 million is planned, of which 62 million are from the European Social Fund, pardon, and 41 million from the budget. In doing so, I must add that there is a need to monitor the use of funds and also the movement of unemployment, so that we will make substantive adjustments to these programmes and, where appropriate, in 2011, in view of the situation, also require additional resources, if necessary. In the proposed action plan for crisis and labour market needs, we are significantly above the indicative planned funding for the period 2007-2013. This is how we planned for 2010, if we compare, only 68.2 million and for 2012 69.6 million euros. However, as has been said, these measures must be adapted to the employment situation. As far as the content of the measures is concerned, we remain with the four main groups of measures that are known, and we add or increase individual measures depending on which group in the labour market is more exposed or needs more assistance. Thus, in the first group, we have advice and assistance in finding employment, standard measures in the second group: training and counselling; this group of measures will be strengthened most financially and by the number of those involved. In the third group, there are measures to promote employment and self-employment and in the fourth group of programmes to increase social inclusion, with an emphasis on public works programmes, which we also plan to double as regards the number of people involved in the coming year. More than 78,000 people will be fully involved in the implementation of these measures in 2010, of which at least 16,000 will be directly employed through the programme of subsidies for employment, self-employment and public works. In 2011, a little less integration, 52,000 and 13,000 of these programmes were planned. At the same time, let me add that by the end of March 2010, companies can still apply for both intervention measures. With regard to the question of structural movements, I can add that these laws that we are preparing from this area are just before publication and will also come to your bench. This is the Minimum Wage, Labour Relations and Labour Market Act. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jeraj, would you like to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u165	Thank you, Minister. I'm glad you don't agree with the Prime Minister of the Government who announced 120,000 and you have a more optimistic number. We commended the adoption of the budget on how to allocate more resources for active employment policy and for all those measures that would encourage employment. At the same time, I am interested, or there is no need for more and better use of these or more efficiency. I am even interested in self-employment programs: Do these people then acquire some relevant entrepreneurial knowledge? If we start by giving them some start-up funds, it's okay, but the question is whether it's going to last and that's going to mean some long-term employment. As it is said, only more resources do not necessarily mean greater efficiency. You have announced an amendment to the Labour Relations Act. We have already amended this law in the previous term precisely to ensure greater flexibility and burden the Slovenian worker because it is less competitive because the work has been so taxed. However, it is certainly necessary to continue in this direction, and therefore we miss or wait for this law to actually come to pass, because it seems to us to be one of the biggest obstacles that prevents employers from hiring again. You also mentioned the minimum wage law. Here too, I agree that things need to be put at another starting point, because if there is such a small relationship between unemployment compensation and minimum wage, then every normal person really wonders whether it is better that I receive a subsidy than that I go to work and work for a minimum wage.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u167	Thank you very much. As regards the effectiveness of these measures and the specific self-employment programme, let me say that this programme is in three stages. First, it is information, then it is also a test of the skills of these self-employment candidates and also training for this activity, for entrepreneurship. In this sense, we intend to strengthen this programme in the future. The evaluation showed that the success of this programme was relatively high in previous years. After two years of self-employment, 70% of these companies were still active, compared to other countries with similar programmes, a high percentage. However, we will continue to complement this programme, in particular in order to offer self-employed assistance even after they have started their entrepreneurial activities, so that during this initial period, when the most difficulties have more assistance. Otherwise, we intend to strengthen the evaluation of other programmes so that we can then have more detailed information on the effects that we are monitoring. With regard to systemic measures, however, let me add what I previously wanted to be partly linked to discussions with the social partners in the coming days and weeks, when we would like to reach an agreement on some changes in the labour market and the labour relations law on the basis of a starting point called safe flexibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Bezjak will ask the Minister of Economy a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Minister and Members and Members of Parliament! The intervention law on the development of support for Pomurje offered this province opportunities to address the accumulated economic and social problems. The last call for increasing the competitiveness of the tourism economy, the 2009 Tourism Infrastructure, shows that no funds and no funds have been earmarked for the Pomeranian region as well as for the Slovenian Mountains. Minister of Economy, Mr Matey Lahovnik: How will the Government help or contribute to the development of the Pomur region and the Slovenian Mountains, from Maribor to Lendava?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u170	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u171	Thank you very much, honourable Member Mr Bezjak. At its regular meeting on 22 October 2009, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region for the period 2010-2015, which provided for certain measures, including the establishment of an inter-enterprise education centre, the establishment of a regional economic centre and investment in the restructuring and enhancement of the competitiveness of agriculture and forestry and food processing activities and investment in infrastructure, mentioned above all the drinking water supply project. At the outset, I would like to point out that our ministry has always given special importance to projects from the Pomur region in providing incentives for increasing the competitiveness of the tourism economy, as they are automatically provided with the maximum number of points within this criterion in response to the call for proposals for the level of development risk, which means that 10% of all possible points are automatically secured. Taking into account the above mentioned region, one of the most successful in obtaining funds from tourism tenders has been mentioned in the past. In total, 15 projects were directly supported, with 17 million Euros allocated. Projects involving companies from this region as partners were also supported. Supported projects are also linked to additional jobs, and when we talk about tourism projects, additional nights. Given the nature of the award of incentives through calls for proposals, projects must meet the tendering conditions and be adequately prepared, which has not been met in the case of certain projects that have applied for the last call for proposals. It was three roles. In the future, in view of the positive effects of investment policy, the Ministry will endeavour to provide additional resources to increase the competitiveness of the tourism economy. Let me say that this call, or the drawing of funds in the field of tourism infrastructure, we are, I am sure, the most successful since so many good projects have been prepared. Even in the last period, despite the recession, interest was high, but it is true that not all the applicants submitted the relevant documentation. Let me say that, say, among the more famous ones that I now remember, from around Maribor is co-financing the climber, which is very important for the development of the city. There are also some other bigger reverberating projects that have been very well targeted. However, I must say that I am positively surprised that despite the recession they have applied for very concrete projects, because in some other areas we are not faced with this. It is true, however, that the Ministry, in addition to direct incentives in the field of tourism, also implements the development measures of Slovenian tourism organisations, where two projects are currently under way, which are important for the development of tourism in the Prekmur region, namely the preparation of a comprehensive catalogue of tourism offerings in the region where 40% of co-financing is provided, as well as the promotional campaign of the tourist destination of Moravian spa with its surroundings. This is happening on the Serbian market, which represents a certain potential that is currently being assessed less exploited than it could be. In addition to supporting the competitiveness of the tourism economy, which is one of the major tasks of the ministry, the law also provides for the establishment of a regional economic centre, which was designed in accordance with the preparation of a resolution on national development projects and identifies a range of different projects, including in the field of tourism, energy, health and the like. What might be further highlighted is that the Ministry will also launch a public call for the development of this infrastructure in early next year, I am talking about economic centres, and a public call will be made in advance, which will also establish a real interest in the individual areas of individual applicants. On the tourist infrastructure, as I said, maybe this last invitation was exceptionally accompanied by three applications that were not complete, but were not received, or were among the most successful in this area, particularly in the field of Moravian spas and Terme Lendava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. Mr Minister, congratulations, you are indeed very successful in the field of the Ministry of Tourism. All thanks also in fact for all the support of Maribor for the performance of the university, which is at the door. Nevertheless, we must touch each other, when you visited the government when you were in Prekmurje, you somehow indicated that Prekmurje and Slovenian Gorica will be allocated more than €100 million for development in tourism. This part, I've noticed from your speech, is barely beginning to fruit. I also proposed here in the National Assembly that development, aid or law should be extended to the whole of Slovenia. Now we're dealing with the same problem in Koroška, and tomorrow we're gonna be stabbing ourselves in the White Land. These solutions or the setting off of the fire, when it's on fire, I think it's bad and it's too late. Therefore, I would expect you to take the actual solution in full, not in certain segments.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Does he? No, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u175	I would actually suggest, in accordance with Article 246, that this debate be discussed in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u176	Okay. On the proposal of Mr Bezjak, the National Assembly will vote in the framework of the votes tomorrow, Tuesday, 15 December. Mr Andrej Magajna will ask the Minister of Defence a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u177	Greetings to all present. My parliamentary question concerns religious care in the military. Dear Minister, Dr. Ljubica Jelusic, I ask: Is the provision of religious care, in its present form, with available resources and resources satisfactory? So is religious care sufficient for potential users? Ensuring religious care is a constitutional right that applies to all citizens and special forms of care are organised in environments or occupations where the nature of the activity makes it difficult. The Slovenian Army is taken care of by 14 members of the military vicariate who have the status of civil servants. I will not go into a constitutional review of the employment of priests as civil servants, even though this assessment is necessary, as the Institute of Labour does not only finance the costs of care, but also religious confessional activity as such. I'm actually interested in this area that I'm going to further explain. Does the Ministry have a record of how many members of the military are turning to vicars because of their spiritual needs, given that in most churches outside military facilities they can be accessed. Are the vicars overworked? In doing so, I mean the burdens with the basic work, the confessional activity, the matters of a spiritual character, and not the other activities to be carried out in parallel? I also wonder: Do priests who work in the military do other things that are not directly related to spiritual care? Perform lectures, help organize various cultural events, complementary works in the library, work of experts in psychological counselling, that is to say work for which they are not directly qualified. If you can answer these additional questions, then answer that basic question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. A respected choir! Thank you for asking. If I were to briefly answer what you basically asked as a question, I would say that the religious care of members and members of the Slovenian Army is taking place at this moment, but we cannot say that it will be sufficient for ever. This is because, at the moment, the employees of the Slovenian Army are primarily concerned with those who are Roman Catholic and Evangelical religious communities, i.e. they are members of these religious communities. But the task of our chaplains is to provide for other religious communities, of course, in such a way as to find suitable priests in society, either at home or where they are on missions, who can then help our members and members. As far as the question is concerned when you ask whether there is any record of how many members are turning to vicariate, I must say that it is not customary for us to measure in a democratic society whose religion is one and how many. Therefore, we do not check how many people turn to our military chaplains for help. The fact is, many people attend their rituals, and among them are those who are faithful, as are those who are not faithful. However, we do not limit our members when they accompany them when they listen to the activities of military priests. The number of priests, the number of military chaplains, was determined in the Slovenian Army by means of an appropriate internal regulation, not on the basis of the counting of believers, but on the basis of the fact that this basic human right should be ensured to the people employed in the Slovenian Army. Then the number of people was determined that the vicar was in charge of the entire pastoral service, that is, one man with two assistants, and then another priest, called a priest, was in charge of each brigade, and pastoral assistants were involved. The standard in the countries of NATO is that in each battalion there would be one military priest, but we do not follow this arrangement. When you ask if they are overloaded with their work, it is difficult for military chaplains to say whether they are overburdened because they are people who never sue for their work. They do their work conscientiously, carefully, and loyally. We could say that they are doing their job as a special mission, and I think that in other jobs in the military, they would want people to do their job in such a professional way. They are commended for their work by all members and also by other countries with which our country participates in the military field. We are dividing the military pastoral into a pastoral that takes place in the so-called peacetime, it is said, at home and in international operations and missions. The rules for large contingents are laid down by one of the priests to keep up with them, this is usually in Kosovo and all other missions are visited by military chaplains. When you ask them if they are doing other things that are not directly related to spiritual care and for which they are not directly qualified, they do a lot of good work in the military. They take care of a good personal climate, give advice to commanders on ethical and moral issues, ensure that they are constantly present to accompany soldiers in all their activities. Sometimes they also give a lecture, as long as we prepare soldiers for international operations. And then they teach them about what religions, what religions will they meet up with on international missions. Sometimes they have information that no one else has, so I must say that we do not reject their information or information that they can give to our people when they go on missions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Magaina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u181	It is clear from your answer that religious care for members of the military is essentially satisfactory. On the other hand, I have also received confirmation that they are generally engaged and that, in addition to direct, confessional activities carry out other works in good faith, which further confirms to me that at this point there is probably no need for new organisational forms or additional finance by the Ministry. This is likely to be the indirect answer to the question: Is there no reason for the defence ministry? If they are, you will answer me about the financing of some new forms, such as the military dioceses and so on. You may be able to cover the needs that are now in this spiritual field.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u182	Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I said that so far religious spiritual provision has been arranged satisfactorily. Whether military bishops are needed or a military bishop is needed is not dependent on the Ministry of Defence's judgement, but the military diocese is always a result of the relationship between the state and the Church. In fact, by 1986, there were no military dioceses or so - called ordinariats in any country, and until then we know only military vicariates. Only with the apostolic constitution, "spirituals militum curala" as some kind of legal act is introduced the expectation that countries will introduce or regulate relations between military religious and spiritual care and the state at the level of military bishops. As it is said, this is a matter of broader judgment and there is no way to judge the defence ministry, or even the Slovenian Army, or even the people who will need religious care within the Slovenian Army.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of Public Administration a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u185	Thank you very much. At the time of the government's term of office, it was kind of hanging in the air, making everything new different and beautiful, fairer and better. It surprised me very positively within this framework of the move by the President of the Government, who gave him his own example, which is that he will pay part of the costs of the representative himself. As far as I know, he's doing it today. Of course, at the time, at least in local newspapers, I think somewhere else, I said very clearly and commended President of the Government for such a move, because such a move is part of a framework that is called the management of governance by example. This means that he expected and also invited all ministers to do the same, yet some of them laughed a little bit, some of them being a little screwy about his work, and now a few days ago as lightning from the clear sky to spend €4,500 at the Ministry of Public Administration for dinner of some officials, namely 40 or 45 officials. I can fully respect their work, I believe that they can do a lot of things - many of them I also know and know that they are doing a lot - but the move to spend €4,500 at the expense of the State is completely contrary to what the President of the Government is saying; completely contrary to what one would expect from ministers. Indeed, the Ministry has spent 100 euros on one man. How can you eat dinner for 100 euros is not clear to me. But I'll let myself say the following. During my work in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, I did not drink one cup of coffee at the expense of the state, let alone something else. And I have the moral right to ask that. I'll even say that I was in front of Prime Minister Pahor, who paid his own expenses. You can check it out and they'll confirm it; but good news is, they didn't report it, and they're on to the Prime Minister. And I ask the Minister: No matter what was reported in public later, if we pay ourselves - that's all right, but if we didn't catch you, we wouldn't. So: How is it that something like this has happened in the first place? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u186	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. I have been coordinating my work at the Ministry of Almost 300 employees since 2009, when I took over my term of office in Monday's colleges. I replied to the question of the competent service somewhere in November, or how we will organise a working meeting, which is usually at the end of the year, "To the same extent and to the same extent as such meetings have been organised in previous years." From here on out, I did not deal with the meeting, nor was I aware of the amount of costs incurred by this meeting. After receiving the officer's questions, I asked the competent services for explanations. They introduced me to the documents of the current 2009 meeting and the previous meetings at the end of the business year. At the table I received documents from 2007, 2008 and 2009, and you can also look at them. In all three cases, a contract and invoice were issued at the end of the year for the same event. Ten. 12. In 2007, the Ministry of Public Administration paid an account in the amount of EUR 4.100.12. Ten. 11. 2008 was commissioned and later settled for the same service, a service amounting to EUR 4,200. And in 2009, an order of EUR 4,100 was issued. This event was clearly the practice of former Minister Virant and I did not want to change good practices at the Ministry, so my instructions were to organise a meeting on the same scale and in the same way at the end of the year as all previous years. In order for such meetings to be arranged irrationally, I did not even suspect. My colleagues are well aware of my position to reduce funds in public administration. At the time of the preparation of the three budgets and for the whole year 2009, I did not actually organise any meetings with outside workers. That my instructions in the preparation of budgets have been fully respected and that I am also acting by example in the use of public funds, may be evidenced by the following information, which you have also requested in your question, and now I am giving it to you. I have reduced the costs of representation for the Minister's cabinet by 77% in 2008 according to the consumption of Minister Virant. In 2008, a little over 28,000 were used, and in 2009 I spent 6,000 and a few more euros on the cabinet. Together, the cost of representation in 2009 in the Ministry of Public Administration was reduced by 48%, from 87,000 in 2008 to 45,000 in 2009. I have reduced the cost of working lunches of the Ministry by 72%. I didn't pay for business lunches with a business card, but I paid them myself. The Minister spent about 1,000 euros on lunches at the inn in 2008, 1,200 on meeting with the chiefs. I spent only €630 alone in 2009 to meet with the chiefs, and once again I paid myself for business lunches in different types of meetings. Throughout 2009, I demanded a rational consumption of material costs throughout the entire ministry. Look at the budget. Minister Žerjav has repeatedly said clearly and loudly that only at the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Defence have they reduced costs, i.e. material costs. According to consumption in 2008, we reduced them by 20%. This is about €6.5 million. And to conclude. Because, according to my assessment, the payment of the final working council would certainly be an unintended waste. It wouldn't be pointless, but it was very irrational. The costs of the college's decision will not be burdened by public funds, but by the participants themselves. Of course, I fully agreed with that. And once again, with the costs, of course, when I confirmed the same way of working as all previous years, I was not aware. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u188	Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I'm glad you've reduced your costs, as you say. That's good, that's good, I don't have that information you said today, but I'll say it anyway. I myself do not recall in my work career any New Year's meeting to be paid to me by the State, nor have I performed any important tasks either in the cabinet of the President of the Government or in the ministry as State Secretary, so I am surprised that this has also happened directly in the past, with the former Minister. It's okay to lower it, but I'm sure I'll say 4,500 euros to me. So, in a way, you said it was more than ignorant or after some old clichés. [[...]] He said that at least in the future, not just you, I might be telling someone else from the ministers, more cautious in such decisions. As far as you're concerned and lowering costs, of course I have to believe that your data is being held. I can commend you, and yet one part of the answer I somehow did not get: Are you following the invitation of the Prime Minister, or are you not? I also wrote this in writing, and I would like to ask that part of the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u190	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u191	Thank you very much. If I follow the call of the Prime Minister. I think I already told you in the presentation of the data that in 2009 I spent €600 on working lunches to meet the chiefs at the end of the year where the cold buffet was. I have settled all the remaining meetings from my own resources, and this in fact also shows real consumption. I am different from the data I requested from the Ministry of Public Administration's financial service to prepare me for the cost of representing and reducing the cost of working lunches and reducing spending on the bank card, for example, the same former minister spent 3,800 euros, me 800 euros, which means a 77% reduction. In fact, more than such savings by almost 50% to 70% of the cost reduction last year, I could not even imagine that it would not go against business interests. Yeah, this event, I'm really giving you the opportunity not to think that I accidentally said anything here, which is not true. Here are three accounts, 2007, 2008 and 2009 and three orders - at the end of the year. The events are precisely mentioned and this, for 29th year 2009 is still the lowest. However, I fully agree with you that it would probably be right for ministers to be wide-eyed and ears to know for themselves, that you were the Secretary of State, that it would be impossible to manage physically every job in the Ministry, of course, but that is why we are unquestionably objectively responsible for what is happening in the ministries, and believe that my attention in this work will certainly be better than it was in 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, who is absent today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary, who is not. It is clear that the gas terminal projects in the Gulf of Markets are already in such a stage of preparation that it is high time for appropriate action, the intervention of the Slovenian Government to prevent a long-term ecological disaster. The project itself is ecologically controversial, thus showing independent studies and opinions from many environmentally-aware experts. The undisputed environmental threat is pointed out by many civil organisations, professional associations and, last but not least, by us in the Slovenian National Party. The huge cement platform for the reception, gasification, which will be brought by the sea from Spain to the Gulf of Tržaška will be located in the immediate vicinity of Slovenian territorial waters with a safety belt and radio transport connections and will directly interfere with the Slovenian national territory and in an unacceptable way completely transform or turn over to the head of the Tržaška Bay and life on Slovenian Primorsk. Let me just mention a few catastrophic dangers. For example, the release, heated Slovenian water and the introduction of mercury into the water tower, the consequences of chlorination, this is the use of a variety, i.e. the resulting destruction of marine flora and fauna in the Gulf of Tržaška and in the Slovenian Sea, and in particular potential accidents in the sea, which would be ecologically destructive for the whole of the Gulf of Trža. Some discussions in Ljubljana, unfortunately without political cooperation and cooperation with the international non-governmental organisation Alpe Adria Green, have shown the necessity of developing a common energy policy among countries sharing the same sea, namely Slovenia, Croatia, Italy. For the purpose of resolving such an important environmental dispute. This means that, in the use of energy resources in such a sensitive Adriatic Gulf, appropriate national energy plans should be drawn up and adopted for total energy consumption in the next twenty, thirty years and given priority to pipelines because they are less polluting the environment and pose a lower risk in the event of accidents. In order to plan these projects for mafia operations, even the Italian police found that the data on deposits, temperatures and depths of the sea had been documented and that the studies did not take into account the consequences of possible ship accidents. It was once said that our Ministry of Environment and Space does not rule out the possibility of an action against the Republic of Italy in the European Court of Justice and I am interested in: How far did you and your ministry come on these decisions? As we hear, the Kohorje municipality also opposes the planning of gas terminals and has already filed an action with the Italian municipalities of Milje and Dolina before the administrative court in Trieste against the Italian Ministry of Environment and Cultural Heritage. I ask the minister: What is he waiting for and his ministry or government? Will they press charges once the gas terminals are in place? Or do they expect that they will no longer have to invest because they are no longer responsible, responsible, and that this will become someone else’s concern? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Would you like an oral answer? Yeah. Thank you. Mr. Peter Verlich will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The Honourable Minister. As I have already written down in my announcement the content of the oral question, do they hold information that Italy is showing less and less interest in cross-border railways from Trieste to Divaca? This is the sixth priority project in the framework of thirty projects, which are, of course, also co-financed by the European Commission and are, in fact, our priorities. I must say that I have been encouraged by this thinking - because I know that, at least as far as your website is concerned, the mixed Italian-Slovenian Commission in this area of meeting, what are the results, I must say that I do not know how these arrangements are going. However, on the news from the diary of the Sea of 22. 11. 2009 concerned that the journalist wrote that "for several months there has been a tactical war between the countries concerning the fast European railway, which Rome and Ljubljana have very different views. Slovenia is mainly interested in a new two-track railway to Kopra, and Italy is showing a growing interest in the cross-border railway from Trieste to Divace. At the moment, its efforts are aimed at updating the current route from Rong to Trieste and its port, which is also sought by the Land of Furlania-Julian Region, Italy and the country of reality, and is also more interested in the railway connection between Trieste and Koper, which is not one of Slovenia's priority plans. The position of Country Councillor Riccardi to remain a fast train between Trieste and the Theatre of strategic importance for Italy seems more diplomatic than the content statement. Rome cannot simply fail the agreement with Brussels and Slovenia, but it points out that the cross-border railway is far away or very far away." End of quote. So not only this article, but in general the situation around the international activities of the Ministry of Transport or the fact that these strategic priorities and that the sixth priority project through Italy and Austria do not take place, I am, of course, concerned and interested. That's why I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u197	Thank you, Chairman. We both share this concern that at any time the fifth corridor will be around Slovenia. And given that we have common goals here, I have no doubt that we will successfully confront this together. In fact, this information, which has come to you, is not yet an official position of the Republic of Italy, but these concerns have already been expressed at the meeting, as the Italian State Secretary has stated these concerns and forwarded them to the Interministerial Meeting at Brdo pri Kranju on 8.11.2009. That is, whether the planned construction of the line, which runs throughout the length from Trieste to Divče, will almost be in the tunnel and will also be connected to the Slovenian track in the tunnel, technically, environmentally and financially accessible for them and will be able to carry it out. These concerns were devoted to us. My Secretary of State later discussed this with the coordinator, Mr Binkhorst. And since you know that this is a cross-border project, there will be no decision here in which Slovenia will not participate in any way or other. Therefore, if it ever happened to decide not to build this project, we would only agree on it if something else were to happen that would allow the 5th corridor to flow. This is only acceptable for the Republic of Slovenia if, by chance, Italy wishes to give up this project. But this is a project, as you know, by decision No. 884/2004 on co-financing of project documentation one of the projects financed by the TENT Fund. So, Italy actually expresses its concerns, Slovenia is informed about this, the coordinator of Brinkhorst is informed and we are looking together - or I will say so: we are listening to this moment of their proposals; whether we will do something or not, we will also inform the Slovenian public earlier. So for now, things remain the way they are. However, you have the right information that the Italian side believes that the project, as it is set up, is difficult for them to reach. This is not yet their official position, but it has already been forwarded to the Slovenian side. But to keep the 5th corridor moving forward, I'm sure I'm inspired by at least two reasons. The first is Mr Brinkhorst's report, which is positive for Slovenia, which says that they feel that they are moving, which says that this is the most appropriate direction, and he is the one whose opinion is most important in the European Union, before the European Commission, when it comes to deciding on priority projects - with all the behaviour of course, what is going on in the European Union's political kitchen, which is not quite as different as political cuisines elsewhere. However, this opinion will be crucial, and this moment is such that the connection that takes place on the 5th corridor from France via Slovenian territory is most favourable. This position remains firmly stated. This is the first reason I am encouraged to keep this project going through Slovenia. The second reason was highlighted in his report as positive or which indicated the positive nature of his report, but that Slovenia has allocated more resources for rail infrastructure, which also gives greater legitimacy to all projects in this part of the 5th corridor. We will closely and closely monitor all the behaviour of the Republic of Italy in this regard and will not agree to anything that could in any way endanger or harm the interests of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Do you want additional answers? Here you go, Mr. Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Thanks for the answer. But, Mr Minister, I have seen some hesitation in your response, particularly with regard to this commitment to the placement of this project now in this cross-border work. As you know, this course of the fifth, sixth priority project on this triangle between Trieste and Divest and Kopro and Trieste, of course, was created by the experts, and what the then government has done is that this agreement has become somehow binding, binding on Italy, Slovenia, on this mixed Italian-Slovenian Commission, with the course behaviour and support of Mr Coordinator, as you mentioned, Brinkhosta. So, Italy then made a commitment to this, now that I understand this first part of the answer, it expresses its concerns. However, the Slovenian side, if I understood your answer correctly, listened somehow. It may be better to insist on what we have already achieved, and we stand firm in this position. I would like to hear again from you in this supplement: Are these commitments of Slovenia solid and will we defend them in all positions? Or a great question may arise when Austria builds this tunnel on the Stairly side between Graz and Trbiz and starts probably also with lobbying actions to lose the corridor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u200	Mr. Secretary Dr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u201	Thank you, Chairman. No, Slovenia remains firmly in the position that the sixth priority project must go on, that the fifth corridor must go through the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and we will not agree to anything that could jeopardize this route. We both know how far the Austrians are with their projects. So far away that if we act wisely, there will be no such fear. And as I have said many times in this Chamber, next year in the middle of the year, we will have finished bases for the first part of the line between Kopro and the Divinator, then we will get a building permit, and if all of a sudden, we will start building at the end of next year. While the priority project remains the same as it is. And if there is no other option that is absolutely acceptable for Slovenia and you will be informed in time and we will talk about it together, then I remain firmly on what is now proposed. Either this is real or not for the Italian side, and I can't make that decision. I conveyed to you what was actually true that the Secretary of State at the meeting said that they expressed doubts as to whether they were capable of building it. And I gave it to you correctly. However, Slovenia remains firmly on this project; such as, unless it is shown that there could be a different, better proposal. Until then, this one remains most clear. However, a different proposal must not pave the way through the Republic of Slovenia or in any way endanger the course of the 5th Corridor as it has been carried out at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u203	Thank you very much. I ask that the reply of the Minister of Transport be discussed on the basis of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. In fact, the answer is still, unfortunately, leaving doubts. It still leaves doubts that if Italy had serious concerns in the corridor, we might be able to change and tolerate some kind of derogation. I am afraid, however, that given that much effort has been made to achieve such an agreement between Italy and Slovenia, with the cooperation of the European Commission, this was the best possible agreement between the two countries. I am convinced that it is no longer just up to Italy to say that what departs from something, to which we have committed ourselves together, that it also depends on Slovenia. However, if I follow this complementary response of yours, that is to say something that would be better, I am convinced here that all the options we have and have already studied have been reopened by experts and are particularly weakening the extremely good position of the port of Koper. All other variants - I am sure that you have also been informed about this and that the Italians of course know this well. I think it is so important that this is the answer that this debate is being held here in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Your proposal to hold a debate on the Minister's response will be voted on tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mr Franz Puksic will ask the Minister of Finance and the absent Minister for Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Ministers! Housing is a material asset and housing is a social character and therefore represents one of the basic one-time goals for each individual. With that, I believe we all agree. This area is so important that it is the responsibility of the State to regulate it in such a way as to make it more accessible to housing and to prevent speculative practices that move housing prices on the open market into inaccessible or off-the-shelf heights. The purchasers of apartments from 2007 to the outbreak of the global economic crisis in October 2008 to which they had not yet been handed over or handed over in 2009 paid the Ares or partly or all of the payments for new apartments at the price of the apartments at that time. Prepayments were made in good faith that, of course, they secure a new apartment, and investors or sellers use their money in return, i.e. virtually, without any restrictions on their obligations, interest and so on, which is an agreement, contract and normal. Now the buyers of these apartments are placed in a significantly worse position than the new buyers, because investors - those who have given the aro - do not recognise the benefits in terms of substantially lower prices. According to statistics about 16% in the Republic of Slovenia, which was enforced after the outbreak of the global economic and financial crisis. Thus, the buyers of these apartments were in a totally insurmountable position as they became prisoners of well-organised real estate investment entities. Moreover, the overall situation of buyers of new apartments has deteriorated as a result of the global economic crisis. Bank loans, which at the same time became more difficult to access, were also largely irritated and could not sell their existing properties, i.e. at the same price that they had calculated before the year or year and a half. These reasons suggest that the State should intervene and protect these home buyers in some way. Mr. Minister: Is the Government preparing any measures for this solution? But we have 3,000 to 4,000 of these buyers. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u206	Mr. Minister Krizanic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u207	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. Member of the Commission, Mr Franz Puksič, your question is a comprehensive and intervention in the work of several areas of the field. First of all, let me tell you that at the Ministry of Finance we are aware of the problems faced by house buyers and other people who have been affected by the global economic and financial crisis in any way. In its opening remarks, I would also like to point out that the Ministry of Finance is without prejudice to contractual relations and cannot affect the fulfilment of the obligations of participants in bond relations. The claim that bank loans have become irritable and at the same time become even more difficult to access will not be maintained. According to Banka Slovenije, the interest rates of existing housing loans to households and the interest rates of new housing loans have been declining since October 2008. The current interest rates are lower than the 2007 levels mentioned in your question. It is also important that household lending is relatively solid, as the volume of loans to households has increased relatively well over the past few months. Long-term loans, including housing loans, contribute to the net increase of such loans, while the volume of short-term loans is decreasing. In response to the difficult situation of many individuals, the Government has drawn up a guarantee scheme for natural persons, which also affects the first resolution of the housing issue. With this measure, which banks have been implementing since October, we have introduced an option for banks to offer state guarantees in the event of lending certain groups of the population, totalling EUR 350 million. EUR 300 million is directed directly at housing loans and it is a 50% guarantee and EUR 50 million is earmarked for those who have been so severely affected in the crisis that they have lost their jobs that they now have a problem with repayment, and at least for those annuities during the period when they are looking for work, they can receive a relatively favourable loan with a 100% state guarantee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Pukšič, please complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for your answers, but the part where you say that the government, the state, cannot interfere with the contractual relationship. Given that we are not talking or not asking about some economic operators, that we are not talking about purchasing cars and so on, but about the apartments that are, and we agree with that, material goods and material goods of a social nature, but now those who paid the ara - ara paid to secure a price and the investor could build it with this ara. In doing so, he had better baseline positions both in banks, borrowing credits, contractors and so on. And after all that, prices fell on the market. When prices fell on the market, those who went shopping and paid the ara also calculated that they would sell their own apartment or whatever, because it doesn't matter. And they also dropped prices on the market. On the other hand, there's a new buyer when we finish the apartment. In fact, when I give up the ara, I don't know if it'll be over or not, let's just remember Zbiljek's grove and so on. Now some new buyer, when the apartment is finished, gets an apartment about 18% lower price than the one who gave the money earlier, who gave the ara with which this apartment was built and so on. I think, Mr Minister, that perhaps with the "lex specialis" law we should cut into this because it is about 3 to 4 thousand such families that do not have millions of values. They're not the ones who would [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] have paid off some millions of dollars or something to deal with the crisis. [[...]] It's true, Mr. Secretary, with everything you've listed. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u211	Thank you very much. So, the fact is that certain people who bought apartments at the highest prices during the period when the balloon blew up, either on the coast or in Ljubljana, are now in a somewhat unfavourable position. However, this situation is expected to improve over time. That it goes where they're really expensive properties, for real estates that are very likely to have a very high price again. Now it is only a question of how many certain entities will hold up in this interim period. I think that open credit lines are enough if people are normally economically active and the crisis has not affected them too much to withstand this interim period. Another problem is the larger companies, which have also built several such buildings and tried to market them, and now they have to lower the price. And these companies will probably have to go faster to sell, which will keep prices below what some individuals expect for at least a while. If someone bought a real estate to live in it, then there's no problem if he bought it forward for the market, and then he's got this problem. But since he's credit-worthy, he's manageable. And this part of the credits, as it is said, is one of the few that is currently increasing, where demand is large enough, precisely because the price of real estate has fallen slightly. Interest has fallen, the price of capital has decreased slightly and this both affects the favourable development of this capital market segment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u213	Yeah, well, we both agree that those who gave the ara are in a worse position than someone who didn't give it up and came after the crisis when the apartment was built just to buy it back. I fully agree with you that those who buy this exclusively for the survival or resolution of their existence, because it is one of the basic conditions for the creation of a family and so on. By no means am I interested in those who would do this for the market and thus invest their capital. I propose, in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, that we hold a debate in the National Assembly because the issue is being dealt with, as I have said before, between 3 and 4 thousand individual families for which we are trying to find a favourable solution. Personally, I think that with some "lex specialis" law, as already limited by the ostrac interest, even in this way, those who have signed such contracts could easily have invested in the construction of various companies in order to reduce these contracts to those who have given the ara, in accordance with the applicable statistics. Or if they don't want this to just come back to them. In short, it is a purely normal sociological, social, human principle, not to make one more rich at the expense of the crisis, but to make others poor. In short, that's what this is about, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. Your proposal to discuss the Minister's response will be voted on tomorrow as part of the vote. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u215	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President-in-Office. Since the Minister of Environment and Space is absent, I would ask if you could answer my question in writing. In my office, a number of environmentalists have come forward in recent months who have felt that the competent inspection services do not carry out their work in accordance with Article 110 of the Environmental Protection Act, since it is not possible for inspectors to obtain environmental data from pollutants or noise. This Article deals with access to environmental data. The Act should contain as many as four hundred and fifty articles defining the cooperation of these services with the public, which they considered not to be implemented or not fully implemented. Article 158 of the Environmental Protection Act mentions an environmental surveillance service, which is also responsible for determining the facts and circumstances of control over compliance with the measures taken by inspectors. However, Article 159 of the Environmental Protection Act sets out the tasks and powers of this service. In view of the dilemmas raised by environmentalists, I ask the Minister: Can and how can the public concerned obtain information on the environmental data of persons who, in the opinion of the public concerned, pollute air or cause noise? What can the public concerned do when they feel that the reports on the measurements made to the congregation do not correspond to the actual situation? Is an environmental control service referred to in Article 158 of the Environmental Protection Act established and functioning? How and where could the public concerned be familiar with the work of this service? I would like to thank the Minister for Environment and Space in advance for his reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. You'll get the answer in writing. Mr Milenko Ziherl asks the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u217	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings again to all present, who have persisted in the evening. Madam Minister, today you have already spoken about saving on another subject with your colleague Gorenak. I come from the second event, the peak of the economy that took place at the beginning of the month. At this summit, the President of the Government mentioned that it would be possible to lead the country with half the red tape. Of course, this has had some consequences, the idea is to halve the number of ministries, but I strongly doubt this, because this is a political theme and things that have started to run ahead, but with some other optimizations that are possible and could be implemented at some reasonable time, with soft employment options so that people will not suffer, they have been materially deprived. The second is that it is typical for the EU to have a comparable population of 30% less red tape. This figure is probably also more difficult to reach, as Slovenia, as a small country, is likely to need employees who fall into a smaller population for certain specific services. However, a reduction of between 20% and 30% could be discussed and introduced into the government's work programme. If, over the coming years, state bureaucracy were to be reduced by at least one of these percentages, such as somewhere between 20 and 30, this would be a huge budget savings. Negotiations with the social partners would also be easier because savings would go in two directions: easier to meet the demands of employees, while at the same time a cost-effective budget. So you'd kill two flies at a time. This modern technology also allows the administration, for the first time, to decline, and for the second time to become more and more friendly. It is not only in your department, it is also in your colleagues’ department that as many people as possible have access to the broadband network and receive as many services as possible by electronic means. So these orientations, these options certainly give an opportunity to realise a significant intervention in the coming years to reduce the workforce in public administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u218	Madam Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Actually, it's hard to add something to your reasonable thinking. You are probably wondering whether in this direction and with what measures we will try to reduce the cost of working in the public administration below. You are certainly aware of the huge number of government decisions that in fact all went towards reducing labour costs in 2009, 2010 and 2011 as well. On a proposal from the Ministry of Public Administration, the Government, on the same basis as Mr Virant introduced in February, stated that the Human Resources Plan, the single recruitment plan, had set the number of civil servants employed by the state administration authorities by 2% in 2009. In this part, this reduction is also undeniable. At this point, 120 fewer employees have been employed since the current government's term of office. The target is 283 jobs less in 2009. This could have been achieved by non-replacement, as you correctly determined. And if you allow it, the crisis group has also taken very seriously the issue of reducing public sector employees in view of the high number of unemployed in the real sector. We have estimated that the dismissal of public servants in the year in which we provide significant resources at the employment office is redistributed from other budget lines, to solve social problems, the problems of active employment policies in the real sector, where less work required forgiveness. We have not witnessed this in the public sector in order to reduce the scope of the work for public servants. As you know, almost every new regulation adopted in Parliament has in all years in the past, and even now, dictated the very important scope of public services provided by public servants. As a result, the current government will be as successful in the number of employees in the civil part of the state administration as your government has been. We have a bigger problem in the field of public services in public institutions. This is a very serious issue that we have begun to deal with because we wanted to limit the amount of wages because there was no means to implement the salary reform or to increase the number of public employees. The analysis showed that the number of public servants not only in this narrow part of the state administration, but generally - mainly in the Ministry of Labour for the purpose of opening new homes and in the Ministry of Education for the sake of new support services integrated into school processes, then in the field of the Ministry of Health due to an extremely large volume of work, not only because of the flu, but also because of the opening up of new spaces where new people need to be employed to make them alive - there is an increase in the number of hours carried out in the public sector, calculated on the basis of Slovenia's entry into the European Union, not to say more than 800 to 1,200 new employees in the public sector, on average from 2004 onwards. That's the dynamics. This year, we recommended to the Ministry of Field Affairs that, with the same measures as in the State Administration, they impose on public institutions to try to reduce the number of employees by 1%, which would mean almost 1,600 less. For six months, we analyzed what was going on when the ministries reported what was going on. They fail to achieve this goal because otherwise, ten homes for the elderly in the Republic of Slovenia in 2009, which were built in the past years, would be empty. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] And it's a very problematic thing. [[...]] If you have looked at structural adjustments, there are measures in this part, both in the field of faster information [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Here you go. You'll help.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u221	It's just that we're both gonna make extra time. I certainly understand your unappreciative position, because you are between the hammer and the fork. I understand all that. To increase these requirements or the work cycle more than to decrease, it is certainly a matter of saluting. For example, in the area of agriculture, the European Union is now adopting simplifications of bureaucratic procedures. Otherwise, I asked whether there was also a reduction in the number of employees or a redeployment, but it still does not show. But if this trend continues, simplifying bureaucracy or these administrative works, then it will be possible to develop in this direction so that the number of persons will also be reduced physically. I certainly missed something, especially from that session that "entered" into the public; perhaps a different approach. For example, if all ministries had a number proposal, then the numbers would be negotiated. Well, I'm just thinking, for some department, you'd be proposing 100, and then you'd figure out 80, and then there'd be an operational conclusion. I wonder: Are there at least events planned in this direction? In order to examine the ministries and perhaps to report to the ministries, including the state of the number of them envisaged for retirement in the coming years, and could lead some dynamics in this direction more easily in order to reduce red tape. Of course, immediately, it is difficult to get close to the Union standard at night, but after some steps, it would be possible to start a timetable immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u223	This timetable is and is also very ambitious. We had 2% in 2009, and 1% - you're right, it's very difficult to reach it if it's not done in parallel with other things. A decrease of 1% per year in public administration is also recommended for the public sector. What we have brought to the Government, as you say then, was a proposal for a 2% reduction in the number of employees in all ministries and the Government has also adopted such a decision in an important part, so today there are 120 fewer government officials, otherwise there would be none. The recommendations given to the public institutions, however, are at the end when we checked for half a year what was going on, the answers were very substantiated and, therefore, we are ready now in 2010 to make some important changes that will not only be a substitute for people, but they must be, they will go in the direction of the August 2009 decision. In 2010, where structural changes are to be proposed, the government imposed on the competent ministers to achieve the objectives set out in the programme to remove administrative barriers and reduce administrative burdens by 25% by 2012, adopted by the Government in June on the proposal of our ministry and the action programme to reduce the burden for the period until 2012 - this was May 2009 - and create conditions for the implementation of the information connectivity process of databases. A number of ministries need to adopt the legal basis for the databases to communicate with each other and much less of the work of public servants will be needed, we fully agree. From the official records, as set out in the strategy, which we have also adopted at this July 2009 government meeting, both by optimising and informing the work processes and by eliminating unnecessary regulations and obligations, benefits and rights not necessarily in the public interest, they achieve a reduction in the required number of hours paid by public servants whose salaries are set by the Public Sector Salaries Act on average by around 10% in the financial year 2011. We therefore expect that, in 2010, these developments in the field of clearing the rules of some unnecessary procedures will allow us to see financial effects in reducing the necessary hours to be done by public sector staff. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] This is how everything goes in this direction of reduction, costs and adjustment is necessary, and we are very seriously aware of this. [[..]] However, it is not easy because the extent of rights which is the same requirement [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Menich will ask the Minister of Health a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellows, good-bye to all! Dear Mr. Minister of Health, I ask you: What is the strategy of the Ministry of Health for granting concessions at the secondary level? Especially on the periphery there is a significant shortage of different specialists. The waiting period is very long, as the specialists have too much territory and too many patients to cover. People put pressure on health homes, health care institutions, and congregations to arrange for patients or doctors in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u226	Mr. Mr. Miklavici, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u227	Dear President, honourable Member! The strategy for granting concessions should be addressed in terms of the strategy for the overall development of health activities in the Republic of Slovenia, in line with the network of public health activities. The latter will only have to be determined, including the draft Health Act, which is in preparation. This provides that within nine months of the adoption of the law the criteria for determining this network, or for the secondary and tertiary level, will also be laid down. Until then, the Ministry shall not grant concessions. We are seriously preparing the network so that we hope that it will be ready immediately after the adoption of the law. However, it is worth noting that the granting of concessions to specialists and other activities at secondary level cannot solve the problem of waiting periods or currently less accessibility to individual specialists. Personally, I agree with your conclusion on the matter. This problem exists on the ground. The problem is the lack of or insufficient number of specialists in specific areas and areas, which cannot be addressed by granting concessions. This could lead to a redistribution of specialists rather than an increase in the number of specialists. Of course, it is with great joy to wait for the first graduates of the University of Maribor, because this will be the first source of new doctors in our system. As a result, the issue of ensuring an adequate number of specialists across the areas will have to be addressed systematically and on a planned basis, which is also planned by the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Menich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your comprehensive response. I think there are three municipalities in the Shaleska Valley: Velenje, Šostjanj and Šmartno, which is about 50,000 people and we have only one ophthalmologist. Construction of block 6 is planned in the future. We know that the construction itself will also have a major impact on eye damage, there's a lot of welding, there's a lot of demolition, and so on. There's something else that matters. In our congregation, we have a doctor who has received an ophthalmologist’s concession. She has applied for health insurance three times, but her offer has been rejected three times. During this time, she also arranged for a necessary medical office in our health care home, which was approved by the Republic’s or the Ministry’s Health Commission. I think Mr. Minister is aware of this problem. We are desperate that we cannot bring this healthcare activity closer to our citizens. Perhaps on this occasion I would appeal to the minister to help us or to advise us on what to do in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your response, Mr. Minister? Here you go, Minister Miklavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u231	I know the problem. I was aware of that. At this point, I need to apologize. I don't know exactly where this doctor is working. I think he works in a health care facility. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] He's working in Yes, that's right. [[...]] [[...]] Thank you very much. She works at Celje Hospital. We have an extreme lack of ophthalmologists, radiologists in Slovenian space, and here is the problem. If we pull her out of Celje Hospital and she works in your environment, one ophthalmological health team in the cell hospital is missing. And here's the problem, because the profession is too small. We'll take another look, I'll get back to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Thank you. Member Laszlo Göncz will ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u233	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and others present! About one year ago, I had already asked a question about the issue of providing quality quadruple internet in areas where this has not yet been resolved in Slovenia. Unfortunately, this includes part of the national mixed area in Prekmurje. One year ago, it worked intensively to transfer such competences from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. At that time, the competent minister merely stressed his support for ensuring that broadband access is as thorough as possible and mentioned the possible deadline for the State call for funds in this regard. Unfortunately, the invitation to tender has not yet been issued. It is not necessary to stress that the use of broadband is a direct need for an information society and therefore affects information, economic, cultural and, in particular, demographic factors. More remote, mainly rural areas without modern broadband infrastructure are rapidly declining in economic development, resulting in the relocation of young people from rural areas and thus the deterioration of the rural environment. There is no doubt, therefore, that there is a strong interest in these areas in accessing the broadband network of electronic communications. As one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in overcoming the digital divide, the goal was to make information and telecommunications technologies accessible to all citizens. Accordingly, in the field of electronic communications, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology planned programmes to ensure balanced development for all local communities in the Republic of Slovenia and in 2009 envisaged the publication of an invitation to tender for the European Regional Development Fund. I wonder: How and when will the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology actually move towards fostering the construction of telecommunications infrastructure or the upgrading or expansion of a network that would allow for internet connectivity to also those residents in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia who do not have this possibility to date? I would like to ask the Minister to answer at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u234	Thank you very much. You will receive an oral response at the next meeting. Member Bevk alone will ask the question of the Minister without a department responsible for Slovenia's relations with Slovenians around the world, who is absent. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u235	Thank you for your word, Mr Vice President, the House of Respect. I am asking the Minister for Slovenians in place and around the world Prof. Boštjan Žekš a question regarding the integration and integration of Slovenian scholars, researchers and scientists living outside the Republic of Slovenia, both in place and elsewhere in the world, with Slovenian universities, research and scientific institutes and the economy. As far as I am aware, this area has so far been the focus of the Slovenian World Congress, which has organized several such meetings and consultations on this subject in Slovenia. However, the government and the competent ministry have not systematically addressed this issue. An integral part of the current government cabinet is the Office for Slovenians, both in place and in the world run by the Minister, and we therefore expect decisive steps to be taken in this area, which will strengthen cooperation with Slovenian scientists and other top experts in place and around the world. The fact is that at least 10% of all Slovenian researchers operate abroad; assuming there are twelve thousand researchers in the Republic of Slovenia, then there are at least one thousand researchers or scientists outside the Republic of Slovenia. More scientists and top experts are descendants of Slovenian emigrants who emigrated mainly to the United States of America and Argentina. Between 1995 and 2004, about thirty-three researchers from a total of 30 organisations moved abroad, which means 2.4% of researchers in these organizations. Profiles where emigration is the largest are natural and mathematical and technical, which are key to the development of the country and the trend of migration from the Republic of Slovenia is growing. I ask Professor Boštjan Žekš, the minister responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world: What measures do they plan in the field of cooperation with Slovenian scientists and other top experts in place and around the world? Minister Zhekša please answer me at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, you will receive an oral response. Mr Janez Ribič will ask the Minister of Culture a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u237	Respectable present. Dear Madam Secretary, Minister, hello. Madam Minister, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and archives, which provides in Article 43 for the reorganisation or, better said, for the centralisation of the archival network, is in inter-departmental coordination. If the law in this form is harmonised and adopted, this will mean that, as of 31 December 2011, the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia will cease to operate as an organ in the composition of the Ministry of Culture and Public Institutions: Historical Archive of Celje, the Landscape Archive of Koper, the Historical Archive of Ljubljana, the Landscape Archive of Maribor, the Landscape Archive of Novi Gorica and the Historical Archive of Ptuj. As of 1 January 2012, the regional archives and archives of the Republic of Slovenia become an integral part of the national archives. The State Archives from the regional archives and the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia take over their staff, budgetary use rights, obligations, archival and documentary material, premises, equipment and inventory used to carry out these tasks. Area units shall be established at the headquarters of the former regional archives, in the archives of the State Archives of the Republic of Slovenia at the seat of the former Archives of the Republic of Slovenia a central archive of the State Archives of the Republic of Slovenia shall be established. Madam Minister, I ask you: Why is such centralisation of archives necessary? During the decades of independent archives, local communities have also contributed large financial resources to the functioning of regional archives, and the state is now expected to join the buildings. How can you argue that? In my opinion, how will this unnecessary centralisation of both archives and cultural institutions operating in Slovenia take place, in particular the acquisition of employees, budgetary use rights, commitment, the acquisition of archival and documentary materials, the acquisition of premises, equipment and inventory used to carry out the tasks prescribed for archives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Majda Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u239	Your Honor! Indeed, we have drafted a law on the reorganisation of the archival service, a service which is in some ways the most state-owned service in the Republic of Slovenia. After all, storing archival material, all our heritage, according to my interpretation of some kind of data bank, the identity card of the nation and its history. Therefore, it is very important that this service is well organized, is uniform, rational, and operates in accordance with uniform professional principles. You have rightly found that it now operates within the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia as an organ composed of satellites, public institutions in the Slovenian space and all financed by the state, both the job and the professional and other work. The law, which was made, is the will of individual heads of institutions, individual archiving services as well as the central, current services. The working group has prepared this draft with great consensus or almost a majority as a way of unifying, where, as I have already said, there would be more rationalisation, more professional work or harmonised professional work and also a more systematic approach to something that is currently limping, and this is the necessity of informing or maintaining the system that must now be used by digital media and does not yet have a single response. We would not want this service to work - this is what they themselves have proposed - the working group was represented from all the leaders of individual archives, landscapes and historical ones, not only from Ljubljana. It brings more solutions, not just you. But in any case, the status of the staff, the status of the work, would go into another dress or form. The content would be substantially more professionally and uniformly guided and rationalised. There wouldn't be any minuses, but they recognized for themselves that they'd be pluses. This draft is not only in inter-departmental coordination, but also in the verification of other professional services, and I understand that it is experiencing support, with certain reservations that you have made or some other representatives of the archives. What's right to say and I don't think it's irrelevant is the fact that I recognized the archival service as that service on my own on the first day, the necessary updates that must not only be in progress with time, but also in a solid structure, because, as I say, it is indeed a vault of our data, for the bank of our data. For this reason, I also listened to those involved in the archives and was not only sensitive to their proposals for status and legal changes, but also to their infrastructure and also to their desire for better survival. In this respect, we have a planned essential interference with infrastructure. We will start building a new archive in Ljubljana because the current capacities are not only shaken after all the ends and basements in Slovenia, but also have no proper and good depository and other arrangements. At the same time, we are going to the next year to renovate the History Archive on Ptuj with a replacement or improved military building and we are also working in Maribor to get new spaces or other spaces. What is the problem? No minister or minister has taken the archives seriously enough so far or with responsibility because they are less spectacular in our culture and cultural heritage or do not have such a pervasive presence. That's why the interventions were done, they were done, and they were very busy, but not broad enough. In this context, it is appropriate not only to highlight the actors of the organisation but also within the infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Yes, please, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u241	Thank you for your answer. I hope that we have given an answer or an explanation to all those who are dealing with this archival issue in Slovenia, and I hope that our thinking and my contribution at least helped you to think about all those who are supporters of another organisation, which is this centralisation of Ljubljana. Again, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u243	I pointed out earlier that the draft is in coordination, not only between the departments, but I would like to see a long-term thinking that does not go into centralisation, but rather a greater unity, realized. However, if it turns out that other arguments are in favour of maintaining the status as it is, then we will also listen to these proposals, but they must, of course, be reasoned. I don't think we should think that this kind of reorganisation might mean reducing the rights that have been achieved so far or worse. No, we don't want that. We just want to see that perhaps some way too inert ways of working with this sensitive material will improve and become more modern. The centralisation or transfer of assets, including those that you are saying have been created with the help of local communities, cannot happen; in the end, there is more or less a country present. It is true, however, that in individual archives in Slovenia they devote themselves to more local collection, compilation and recording, as well as to the presentation of archival material. But it shouldn't go down with anything or get into a worse situation. It is important that this change does not result in any injustice on the part of a staff member. According to our statistics, this shouldn't have happened. It is true, however, that rationalisation would take place, since certain services would not be duplicated, but would increase efficiency within a more uniform approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill will ask the Minister of Health a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Well, apparently the minister is away now, but still, he will be able to give me an answer at the next meeting if he fails to respond now. I have already asked a written question last month, and unfortunately I have not received a satisfactory answer on this subject, namely the area of physiotherapy, which I think is unregulated in Slovenia. We know that in recent years there have been quite a few complications with the granting of public powers. At the beginning of this year, this public authority was given in some way or by a chamber of physiotherapists, which we know was given on the basis of the false information it was given at the time. However, all this time this year, it was also happening by an information authority. It also doubtless found that false information was given at the time, on the basis of which the physical therapists’ chamber was then given these public powers. It is likely that it was the result of these activities of the information officer, as well as some of the complaints that Mrs Friederika Kresal gave after her official duty, I suppose, that the physical therapist’s chamber or her president decided to return these public powers. Since it seems to me that the field of physiotherapy is extremely important, I find it somehow irresponsible that this would now be unregulated mainly in the area of professional supervision, especially in the field of education on the basis of which licensing points are obtained. That is why I am now specifically interested, Mr Minister: Did the Chamber give up these powers or did you accept them? Has she received any financial resources for this exercise? We know they were in the budget. If she got them: Did she then - of course, if she gave it up - return? After: Who conducts education, who exercises professional supervision? Of course, I also wonder: Have the regulations been published, which also accurately determine how to exercise these public powers? If they were, I say, "Where?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Miklavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u247	Thank you very much for the question, Mr. Grill. First of all, the concession was awarded by Minister Bručan to the Physicotherapy Chamber. I signed the decision in accordance with the decision of the Administrative Court. On the basis of this signature of the decision, I was criminally charged, Mr Bručan, me and Mrs Kresalov. In my criminal complaint, she abused her position as Commissioner, so I filed appropriate procedures against her. But that wasn't your question. The physiotherapist service is very important in Slovenia and is relatively in a difficult situation at the moment. This is where I share your opinion. This difficult situation was created due to the inability to explain such a major dispute and to urge individuals from the top of the Slovenian physiotherapist society and the physiotherapist chamber. These attacks were very serious. When I took over the Ministry and tried to arrange it, I called everyone to an interview, which was attended by everyone and everyone with their lawyer. So it's very difficult. I asked the lawyers to leave us for this interview. I've worked hard, I have to tell you, but there was some co-existence, some cooperation could not be achieved. The Physiotherapeutic Chamber of Slovenia has returned its mandate. The Ministry has taken over all documentation relating to the work of the Physicotherapeutic Chamber. It was not a small job, it was a lot of materials and documents on licenses, which is now being prepared, sorted, and is in the Ministry. The Treaty on the termination of the exercise of public powers for the Physicotherapeutic Chamber is signed between the Chamber and the Ministry. We are preparing the material, preparing the material when the matter is settled, and I am counting on the Ministry of Health immediately after the new year to re-commit public powers to the appropriate association of physiotherapists in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u249	Thank you very much. I agree with you, Mr. Secretary, that this was an enviable situation that you just inherited. In doing so, however, it should be pointed out that the officials, or the commission on the basis of which he then gave public authority in good faith, which he also reserved, were then Minister Bručan. And all along, these dilemmas were cleared up, whether the information given by Mrs Friederika Kresal was really true or misleading. And on that basis also Minister Mazej Kukovic did not want to give these powers. On the basis of the judgment of the Administrative Court, which in fact ordered that this should be granted, I also feared this judgment, or that the procedure should be repeated. You must have decided at that time to give this matter away because you may have been convinced that it was not just as wrong as many who were then actors in these stories were also explaining. I believe that, however, when the information authority has also identified these irregularities, it should somehow require some control as to whether those data were truly misleading and, on that basis, have already been removed and should be in the process of a new call, where only those who fulfil the legal conditions could do so. For, as we have seen together, this area is extremely important. He's in a vacuum right now. Let's hope this emptiness thing doesn't get hurt. I hope, as you predicted, that this will be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill, yours was an explanation, not a question. Would you like to complete the answer? Let's get used to asking questions. You commented for two minutes on the Minister's response. Here you go, Mr. Miklavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u251	President! Thank you, Mr. Grill. Everything you've said is true. I hope to say that my predecessor, Bručán, has signed the legal documents and I have no fear either. Otherwise, this prosecution will investigate that I didn't sign anything illegal. The court ordered me to sign this. The Ministry does not have the right to consult the personal data of any chamber. I can't do that. The Commissioner shall have this authority. The Ministry didn't have that. The Ministry only has the authority, I can order administrative supervision of the work of the chamber, in which case the physiotherapist, and I have this administrative supervision. The Commission went to administrative control before the work was completed, the President or the Assembly gave back public powers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u253	Look, I think it would be very complicated for you on this subject - I have, I can say, such a lot of material - to be very helpful, Mr. Minister, if, for example, we had a general discussion in the National Assembly on this issue. On the basis of some conclusions, it will be much easier for you in the re-negotiation process, so, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the President-in-Office, I propose that there be a general debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u254	Thank you very much. We will vote on your proposal tomorrow during the vote. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek - he will not ask the question. Ambassador Renata Brunskole - Minister of Environment and Space, who is absent. Here you go, Mrs. Renata.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, Mr Vice-President, colleagues here are present and co-workers! A few years ago, in the Republic of Slovenia, it was found that citizens and citizens were paid under-priced services provided by compulsory municipal environmental services, i.e. drinking water supply, sewerage, transport and municipal waste collection and disposal of municipal waste. The requirements of the European Union towards the accession Member States to rationalise the operation of these service providers, both in terms of environmental and economic protection, have begun to predict changes that significantly irritate limited services. The Slovenian accounting standard SRS 35 entered into force on 1 January 2006, during the previous government and terminated the accounting solutions in public companies in 2002. Point 35, 38, provides for a transitional period to be concluded now, which is 31 December 2009. The accounting standard for public companies knew assets in management, namely infrastructure facilities which were owned by local communities, that is, municipalities, but were shown by the public company among the tangible basic assets and charged for their depreciation in accordance with standards. As of 31 July this year, the Regulation on the methodology for the pricing of compulsory municipal economic public environmental services, adopted by the Minister, entered into force; that is, the Minister of Environment and Space. This Regulation lays down the manner in which the network is billed, i.e. rentals for infrastructure facilities. In 2010, municipalities will charge public undertakings a network based on the depreciation rates laid down in this Regulation. There are several problems, namely that during and during the economic crisis those households that consume more drinking water will pay relatively less than those who actually consume less drinking water. However, the problem is that local communities are thinking to a large extent about the subsidy or the possibility of the subsidy, but this will be a huge burden for municipal budgets. I ask the Minister: In today's global economic and financial crisis, how does the Ministry of Environment and Space plan to monitor the implementation of this Regulation? Perhaps this acceptance was not even premature? I request an oral response from the Minister at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u256	Thank you very much. You will receive an answer orally at the next meeting. The question to the Minister without a department for the national communities in place and around the world will be put by Member Happy Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished ministers! We have recently met both Members from Slovenia and MEPs from Hungary to invite Hungarian colleagues on the Hungarian side, this was happening as soon as our government made this bilateral visit. Slovenians living in Hungary live in catastrophically poor conditions. They live, of course, on the edge of an existing minimum. Only for the school we visited, let me say that it is over 60 years old and is equipped with spent equipment donated by Slovenian education to this school. The level of education and employment is at the level of Slovenia from 50 years ago and when we look at teachers who are supposed to know Slovenian - do not speak Slovenian, only one teacher knows. bilinguality is not regulated because Hungary does not believe that this is necessary. The Hungarian community enjoys a very high level of rights in comparison with us, and so is it. They have a fully equipped bilingual area in Slovenia, more than 37 people are employed only on radio and television, and they have their own newspaper, which is cared for by 7 journalists, and they also have a consultant for the use of Hungarian. In short, they have bilingual speaking teachers and have, compared to Hungary, inappropriately more resources. Hungarians spend €600,000 on Slovenians and we essentially €20 million on Hungarian Slovenians. Of course, there's no pay for teachers in Hungary. In Slovenia 360 books are printed annually, and as has already been said, the area is arranged bilingually. I would like to ask the Minister: Why is there such a difference? Why does the government claim that everything in this area is well arranged? I would like to see that if you do not find an answer within the Government or if the minister does not give it to them to halve these funds and give them to the Slovenians living in Hungary. It's an eccentric violation of human rights that we've seen. I will turn to the Council of Europe myself if we do not find an answer and I will also ask the European Members to press Hungarian Members to respect within this [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the agreement signed at the request of Hungary - respect for everything recorded. [[...]] What we saw was very hard to watch, and I think we got out of there with our heads down. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u258	Mr. Friend, for the sake of kindness to you, do I ask verbally or in writing? The oral answer, and Mr. Minister will know what part of the question is, what part are your views? Mr Guido Kres will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished Mr. Minister. My question is: Does the Ministry still support the expansion of the public home supply network, home for the elderly and the operation of the labour centres by providing adequate facilities by the State? Why such a question? Because of problems with this problem in the congregation of Lithium, for many years we have been faced with physical distress or care. In 2004, a D.I.P.P. was built in Lithuania to build a home of the elderly Tisje, a unit in Lithuania, with 60 beds. In 2006 the Municipality of Lithuania granted the building right to build a home, the investor obtained a building permit in 2008 and found that the project was not capable of being implemented. In 2007 it also occurred that Dom Tisje had to move 46 beds, because there was a space crisis that did not meet the standards. It is true that they also intend to make up for these new facilities in the House of Thousands, but this will be exactly what is already difficult. Since we urgently need such a facility and programme in Lithuania, the municipality has set up a social security centre, d.o.o., to buy out the project and build a social security centre. In view of the above, I ask: Does the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs support the expansion of the public network through the House of Tisje for a Unit in Lithuania? At the same time, the question is: Will the Ministry continue to support or will it support the acquisition of premises within the social security centre for the operation of the Ince Mengeš Unit? I am particularly interested in the various suggestions that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs should act differently from the adopted decision of 17.10.2007, which clearly and unequivocally established the unit of the Protection and Work Centre in Lithuania within the Ince Mengeš Regional Protection and Work Centre. It is true that I have made this question very specific, perhaps it will be a little harder to answer, but I am asking you for an answer, if it does not work out, perhaps even a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Dr. Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Member, as you know, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs provides a public network of household care and work centres in two ways: by granting concessions and building new or expanding and by updating existing capacities owned by the Republic of Slovenia. This is how we anticipate in 2009 and 2010 individual projects in many homes in Slovenia, which should quickly be listed: House of elderly Lendava, House of elderly citizens Hodoš, House of Tisje, which is also among them, House of pensioners Trebnje, House of pensioners Predvor, House of pensioners Novo mesto, House of pensioners Sežana, House of pensioners Danice Vogrinec Maribor, Hrastovec, Trate, House of Radovljica, House of Šmarje pri Jelšah, House of elderly Hrastnik, House of rest Mengeš Trzin, House of pensioners Rakičan. Public-private partnership is another form where we test the special model that is under way, this is for the home of pensioners in Idrija. In addition, for the purpose of updating our homes, we are conducting an extended energy survey of the homes for the elderly who are publicly owned, so that we can also update these homes in an energy-efficient way with European funds and another additional project can be carried out. Thus, in 2010, we will spend poor 11 and a half million euros for these purposes. Let me add that in 2009 577 awards were granted. These are the Centre of the Elderly Trnovo in Ljubljana, Topolšica, Bohinj, then another home in Trnov, Ljubljana, Grosuplje, Predvor and Mengš. In 2010, we also anticipate 780 cities based on awarded concessions, in Veliki Polana, Kranjski Gora, Maribor, Ljubljana, Črnuče - Intranje Gorica, also in Ljubljana and Hraše. These cities are on one or the other basis, i.e. in public homes or in concessions, increasingly. For 2010, a concession was granted for 869 cities. Some of these concessions, unfortunately, will not be realized, because once the contractors make plans that are approved, unfortunately, they will not be able to implement them, and in this case we will probably also withdraw and grant some of these concessions to others. As for your specific question, I have already answered that we are participating at the home of the pensioners and I am pleased that you have found a way in Lithuania to carry out the project to the end. As far as the work centre is concerned, the situation is a little more complex. In fact, each congregation cannot have such a center. Investments depend on needs. And since there is such an institution in the neighbouring municipality, which does not have the capacity to improve, we will probably have to wait for this project to not go into investments that are not justified in terms of the current needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u263	Thank you very much. I must say that I am fully satisfied with the question, but yet around this welfare centre in Lithuania, we are convinced that we would need it and that we would fill it. I'd like to say that I'd like to talk about it again if I could. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Not today? Okay, thanks. Mr Anton Kolarič will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, ministers of colleagues, Members of Parliament! The area of protection of privacy between the worker and the employer or employers of control over communications means, the real computers, mobile phones, telephones and so on, which employees use for work, has caused a lot of problems, there have been several cases lately, and since I personally believe that in the Republic of Slovenia there is a legal void, matters are not settled, which the information officer also points out in his annual report, I ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, as well as the Minister for Justice: When will they prepare appropriate legislation in this area? However, I am both asking because I hear there is a conflict of jurisdiction, which is responsible for the drafting of this legislation. I would like to answer: When will the relevant legislation be ready so that there will be no more problems in this area, and who will prepare it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Justice, I'm sorry I didn't mention you earlier. Mr. Svetlik, first responds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. After examining this question, our current answer would be as follows, and the employer should provide the worker with work at the agreed place and agreed time, while also providing him with a secure working environment. It must not interfere with the worker’s privacy and personality and must protect his dignity at work. On the other hand, the worker must refrain from any conduct that materially or morally harms or could harm the employer’s business interests, comply with the safety and health rules at work, follow the employer’s instructions and inform him of any material circumstances affecting or likely to affect the fulfilment of his contractual obligations. In accordance with the Labour Relations Act, the employer must protect and respect the worker's personality and take into account and protect the worker's privacy, the dignity of the worker at work and protect the worker's personal data. With regard to the right to privacy within the framework of the labour relationship, there are several rights relating to the worker and his or her personal relationship. The protection of privacy in the labour market is ensured both through labour law and other regulations, such as with regard to the records that employers can keep in the field of labour and social security for each worker. We can also mention the Labour and Social Security Records Act. The area of protection of privacy in the relationship between the worker and the employer or employers of control over, for example, the means of communication used by the employees at work may be subject to the regulation of a general act or contract of employment, the content of which must be made known by the worker in accordance with Article 8 and Article 26, paragraph 7, of the Labour Relations Act and, of course, must not be contrary to fundamental human rights as constitutionally guaranteed rights. If there is cooperation with workers in this area, such behaviour will certainly lead to greater trust between the parties to the labour relationship. In accordance with Article 8 of the Labour Relations Act, the employer must, before adopting a proposal for general acts specifying the organisation of work or setting out the obligations that the worker must know in order to comply with contractual and other obligations, also intervene in the opinion of the trade union. That's how this guy has to agree with them. Where there is no trade union for an individual employer, the general act of the employer may only provide for rights which may be regulated under this law in collective agreements if they are more favourable to the worker than the law or collective agreement provides. However, the content of the draft general act must be informed directly by the employer before the act is adopted. The Personal Protection Legislator shall provide for the administrative protection of the worker as a weaker party in the working relationship. The worker shall be able to report the misuse of personal data submitted by the information officer if he considers that the employer is in breach of the provisions of personal data protection legislation. So much for now. And I'd give the minister a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u268	Mr. Justice Minister, Aleš Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Communication privacy is also not subordinated in the workplace. It is protected already in the second paragraph of Article 37 of the Slovenian Constitution and in particular through the extensive case-law of our courts, as well as the European Court of Human Rights. This court has already set standards in the Halford case more than 30 years ago, which other courts, including Slovenia, then took over. So the problem is not whether we have a regulation or not, the problem is whether those who need to know and obey the regulations do. But here are the problems, and even in justice alone, as we can read lately. Of course, this will not solve the problems of marriage itself. However, we plan to consider establishing an additional legal regulatory regime in this area, but on the assumption that communication privacy may not be the only one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mr Milenko Zicherl will ask the Minister of Higher Education a question which is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, I would ask the question and, in accordance with Article 247, wait for the Minister's oral reply at the next meeting. My question is regarding the situation of young researchers at universities and research institutes. As we know, this is a country funded by researchers or they receive most of the payments from the state and therefore they are mostly left to themselves and deal with everything else. Everything depends very much on the mentors and supervisors' program. In many cases, however, young researchers become towing horses for all other tasks occurring in an institution, either as bureaucratic, administrative parts of the preparation of lectures. Basically everything but the Ph.D., it's a research job. That is, because they are employed for a certain period of time, they are actually caught in time and become independent only after the doctorate has been completed and they have the opportunity to work for an indefinite period of time. In literature or in the media, it has been possible to read that there is a European research council in Europe that advocates and assists the early financial independence or independence of these young researchers so that they can devote themselves to [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I'm doing research. [[...]] I therefore ask the Minister: What is the situation in Slovenia and what measures, if any, are envisaged by the Ministry to improve the situation in favour and well-being of young researchers? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u272	Mr. Ziherl, are you running out of time to tell us what kind of answer you want - verbally or in writing? Mouth, come on, please, say it. Thank you. Ambassador Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of Justice a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, the extra work of the judges is somehow a topic that I would like to have some answers to today. It is simply that there are more and more ads from well-known and less well-known private companies offering education services and at the same time announcing that they are being taught by the greatest legal experts, the supreme judges and so on and so on. As we know, it is defined by the law as to how it is with the additional work of judges and if we draw a parallel with the state administration, the state administration has already not known how many - eight, nine years ago, I think something like this - very clearly drew the line between what, when and how an individual in the state administration can perform a teaching activity. Not only teaching activity, but also contractual activity from this point of view, as I speak. All the civil servants, at least I think that's respected, are teaching outside the office. Whether they have leave at that time or benefit from so-called overtime hours, or not paid if this is during their working time. Outside of work hours, of course, they can be paid. Actually, I'm asking. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u274	Mr. Gorenak, there's only one minute left at the next signal. You've only been given two. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u275	I ask: What is the situation in the judiciary? In fact, the judicial branch is probably in charge of this, but we know what it is like to be monitored where individual social groups control themselves. The case is health care and all these things that are happening. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u276	Mr. Zalar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Well, control is, of course. Neither does the Ministry of Justice, nor does the judiciary itself, but the Council of Justice, if we conclude by the regulation we have in the Law on Judicial Service. But you know that the Council of Justice does not belong in any branch of authority that "sui generis" is an organ and also its composition is mixed. Our judges may, under certain conditions, perform teaching, scientific, research and other works in the legal profession - this is the first condition - and the second condition - if this does not prevent the performance of the judicial service. The judge must always inform the President of the Court of Justice of the adoption of such work. It must do so in writing. The President of the Court shall be the one who shall determine whether the performance of the work is compatible with the regular performance of the judicial service. If the President of the Court considers it compatible, he shall not issue any special written decision. It is simply considered that the silence of the President of the Court means that he agrees. However, if the President of the Court does not agree with the adoption of such a judge's work, then the President of the Court must request that the Council of Justice decide. In this case, the Council of Justice shall then decide by a special decision. I know that there have been some such cases where the Council of Justice has banned judges from doing any additional work that has been adopted so far. In preparation for your question, we gathered data at the Ministry and found that from 21 November 2008 to 31 October 2009 14 Presidents of the Courts in Slovenia were informed of the adoption of such additional work and that this was a total of 65 such notifications from judges. The Presidents of the Courts have indicated that the Judges are informing the Presidents of such adoption and that, nevertheless, the Presidents have given them special warning every so long about the duty of such notification. The Presidents of the courts shall also ensure that, in the case of the performance of such work, including the pedagogical work as mentioned by you, the judge is obliged to use his annual leave in such a case. They claim that this is happening in practice. The Ministry does not have a review of this because it does not have any legal powers to monitor this in particular. However, in view of the fact that the judges in the role of mentors, in particular those preparing for the state exam, should appear, I would also like to say that, within the Ministry of Justice, we have such training at the centre of education in the judiciary and that it is provided by judges and prosecutors to future lawyers with a legal examination or candidates for this examination. The country systematically provides such training in seminars or colloquies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u279	I'll say I'm satisfied with this part of the answer. But at the same time, I understand from your response that as a minister you do not have your predecessors and those who will follow you, an effective mechanism to control this. I personally think that we should hurry at the Ministry, and I ask you, please, advise, appeal, as you wish, to try to ensure such mechanisms, if possible, by law, of course. Yes, the legal examination also carries out the GV publication and also advertises that the Supreme Judges teach them. That's true, too. And the other part might be if we said something else about it. I am aware that this centre is doing this because it was also established, and this is its primary task. I'm not going to criticize you for earning too much because you've lowered the prices, according to my data, because before they were even higher. However, Mr Minister, I would tell you that in my view, we would try to align the items that the judges get there with European or university ones. The university professor basically gets eighty euros, gross, per hour. While the prices are 100 euros. This is an honorable, free job in Germany, and they are paid 40 euros in Czech Republic. I expect, in this area, we would like to take a bite into our control and some reduction in these items. Because more than university professors, I don't think we should have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u281	Thank you very much. I think that this supervision of the Ministry is, to some extent, possible already within the framework of the current regime when it comes to the issue of the supervision of the administration of matters. If, for example, in a particular case, the question was raised that the President of the Court was not fully or properly performing his duties in this part, then the Minister could also have brought down certain procedures. But so far, such information has not come to me as a minister in relation to a specific case where it would be a violation. With regard to the systemic regulation of this issue, let me tell you that we are planning at the Ministry of Justice to make a significant change in the training of candidates for judges and prosecutors, as well as a change in the concept of a legal examination. It is likely that even the need for either private companies or others to provide these will be completely eliminated, as this will be an organised activity and only within it will be possible to provide training. However, there will be considerable changes and therefore the trumps will also be set 'vacatio legis' to adapt to the current system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Mr Miro Petek will put the question to the absent Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u283	Thank you very much. It is paradoxical that today the Minister of Health is here with us all day, which has health problems some ministers have come here in 'prime time', they show up and then they go. Nevertheless, I would ask the question of a Member of Parliament for an absent minister. In 2007, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted, with amendments and amendments to the Forest Law, an important provision allowing mountain and hill farmers to exercise the right to concession for the exploitation of state forests as a priority. This would help to preserve these farms, as well as the cultural landscape in the hill and mountain world, as it is in Koroška. Many mountain and hill farmers, for various reasons, do not have a variety of historical circumstances, but insist on their farms and try to survive. However, under this legal provision, there is a greater chance of survival in the field of limited management. Surely, farmers who would gain the management of the state forest would manage it with great prudence and care. In Koroška, almost 70% of the landscape is forested, and in the whole region there are about 30 hill and mountain farmers without forests. A cultural landscape at an altitude of 1,000 and more metres does not carry a sheet on the roof, but a farmer without a single mace or spruce is left with nothing else. Sadly, this law, adopted in 2007 in the National Assembly, may have been overly toasted by all these farmers, for this law or article did not come to life according to our information. I therefore ask the Minister: How many mountain and hill farmers have already been able to take advantage of the possibility of prioritising the concession for the exploitation of forests, and where are the possible obstacles? Furthermore, the law also requires the Minister to prepare a programme for the conservation of farms and rural areas in the mountain and hill world with limited management options, and is adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, I ask the Minister: What is the stage of this programme and when will it be ready? So there's no misunderstanding, I expect an oral response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you will get your answer orally at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Ivan Grill will ask the Minister of Health a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! Dear Minister, we probably both agree that even in Slovenia, the area of so-called medicine is still unregulated, that we have experts who perform these services, but we also have many charlatans, many who are actually exploiting the plight of people who in some desperate or infirm way are looking for a costly payment of such services, and in the end, such treatments often end badly for them. During the previous term of office, the so-called Medical Act was adopted, which tried to regulate this area. The Act also laid down that within a year the Ministry of Health should establish or initiate a procedure for the establishment of a chamber which would be a key institution which would then also regulate, supervise, grant licences, in short, protect both the users of these services and the providers themselves. In this regard, I can say that I was a bit awkwardly surprised by the information that the Ministry of Health has now decided to introduce a new law into the procedure, with a different name, and I think that the implementation of a medical activity, which, by the way provided by the original law, is also a summary, but the crucial one which should only be controlled, is essentially leaving. It means the room's gone. I am sure that such a text of the law, or such a solution as it is in this proposal, which is still under public scrutiny, as I know it will be concluded tomorrow, but I am sure that this text will go into a procedure which will not be able to be designed by amendments in such a way that this area is controlled as I think the providers of these services themselves and also by patients. In this regard, Mr. Secretary, I am really interested: Why didn't the Ministry of Health make another attempt to establish this chamber? This would make it easier, I am sure, for the Ministry itself, to control and carry out this activity, and thus a certain burden - at least so stated in the law - is transposing itself and I am confident that this will also be a difficult task for the Ministry and I doubt that it can be successful in the [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] implementation for future implementation. [[...]] Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u287	Dear Member, Mr President! Your dilemma is familiar to me and has been very well weighed in the preparation of the new law. There is still a chance to change this or fix it, but I would like, honourable Member, to say that we are in the proposal for a new law on medicinal activity in a more precise definition of the status of a person who can perform a medical activity and in full responsibility and responsibility of the Ministry of Health. What you've already mentioned. We have corrected Article 6 in addition to homeopathy, chiropractics and osteopathy, acupuncture is added. And these are the methods that only doctors of medicine can do. In Article 9, we resolved to carry out a medical activity on a non-profit basis. This is said to be other forms of legal persons which are not defined in the Company Act. Instead of the Medical Chamber, the proposal of the Law will stipulate that the Ministry of Health will take over the full implementation of the Law, including the implementation of the Health Content Test. Decisions and registration in the register of licences will be issued at the Ministry. This was our proposal, because even in the interview with healers, I could tell you that one is similar, otherwise easier, to the situation than to the physiotherapists. And there's a lot of rivalry inside the healers, and it's hard. That is why we have seen the outcome in this, but we can re-examine it in the sense of your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Look, Minister, that's exactly what I agree with. Since I was somehow involved in the resolution of that law in the previous term, there were also dilemmas, and it is doubtless that, as far as we have medics in Slovenia, there can be so many so-called medical methods. I am firmly convinced that the Ministry of Human Resources, neither professionally nor professionally, can be able to do so because such experts nor the medical faculty in fact do not produce how to regulate this control. The Medical Chamber was, in the very basic sense, meant as a professional institution that would combine all of these professions, which would be composed of all physicians and then, I'm sure, only she could control, grant licences, carry out professional supervision and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u290	Will you ask me a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u291	I did.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u292	So far you haven't.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u293	Over here. Look, Mr President, I have asked the Minister how the Ministry will be able to monitor the implementation of the medical activity of a particular healer. And please don't interrupt me. But I still have 40 seconds, Your Honor. Look, I am firmly convinced that healers are trying to reintroduce a void into this law again, where their operation will again be unsupervised and this will be extremely bad for them. Therefore, regarding the professional associations mentioned in this law. I'm curious. In what form are these professional associations meant? Who's going to make them, especially, who's going to control them? I therefore propose once again that this matter be reconsidered so that we do not take a step back, because this area needs to be regulated in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u295	We'll re-examine the matter. I accept your proposal, but in public today, if we are watching, the most obvious thing is that they control themselves, whether they are physical therapists, doctors or healers. That's why we wanted and thought that this surveillance would work for the Ministry, so I can appoint qualified doctors to be appointed to such a monitoring committee to determine it. But we will reconsider your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Ambassador Andrej Magajna will ask the Minister of Health a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u297	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President! I ask Mr. Miklavčič: What was the reason for the withdrawal of the proposal for a Health Act from the Economic and Social Council meeting scheduled for 11 December 2009 at the Government premises? I would like to ask: Has the withdrawal occurred due to the non-compliance of the law between different health organisations or, perhaps, to the non-compliance with civil society organisations, in particular, to the movement to preserve and improve public health? This is a movement that brings together over 74,000 people.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u299	Mr President, honourable Member. I'm not going to say that your guess is correct. What you're suggesting is true. And we have not yet decided to harmonise this law for interviews with the Medical Chamber. I would be very happy if you could help and harmonise the opinions of two civil society groups in order to harmonise the opinion of the Movement for the Conservation of Public Health and the Movement of ZaNas. There's something we need to work out here, too. These are two major civil society, which you have completely the opposite of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Magaina.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u301	First of all, I would like to point out that the law is not only harmonised to this extent, but also coordinated in front of the media, that there is only a need for discussion with different health organisations. There are many comments in civil society. It should be stressed that we cannot mix all forms of civil society. It's a movement with 74,000 signatures. There are also many doctors, politicians, and not least thousands of users and society, which are also quite a few that, as we know, can be established by a group of people. I do not want to degrade these societies if they involve relatively small membership, but we cannot compare such a number of movements with individual smaller societies. In fact, I would like with my question, which I have also been asked, to which I have been asked the Minister to carry out serious coordination with this movement and with their comments, which, in my view, are the right path for the reform of health legislation, since the existing novelties, at least in my opinion, are not reform, but merely a correction of the previous system and complementarity, not the achievement of those objectives that we have also entered into the coalition contract.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u302	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u303	I will organize an interview and coordination at the Ministry between your civil society and the Association for Us, and I will invite representatives to talk next week to coordinate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will also ask the Minister of Health a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Chairman. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. In the proposal for a Health Act, which you have forwarded to the public or to the social partners for the Economic and Social Council, you also propose the following. The management and management of health homes and hospitals is transformed into entrepreneurial, supervisory councils and administrations, which means the identification of users and health decision makers, means an experiment and the fastest way to sell health homes and hospitals. The use, rental and disposal of premises and equipment of health homes and hospitals should be decided by the Minister by means of a concessional act. The current illegal state of health homes is legalized, further breakdown of health homes is legalized. Medical homes could only have guidance to coordinate the work of concessionaires. Concessionaires and public health institutions could carry out both public and private health activities, as proposed by law. The proposed quality agency is withdrawn and the Medical Chamber will retain the powers of professional supervision and licensing, even though we know that it is a matter of controlling conflicts of interest, which is why the supervision does not work. Consider the case of Bor Nekrep and other cases. I therefore ask: Have they been and who has carried out the analysis, which is the basis of these key guidelines for health reform? Are these analyses available to the public? Was and when was a national strategy based on reform proposals adopted? Have you obtained the consent of the population for these key directions of health reform? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Miklavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u307	Dear President! I must conclude that there is a mag in the questions and statements of the Member of Parliament. Julian Bizjak Mlakar some inaccuracies. At the last meeting where we sat together, I said very loudly and clearly that the quality agency in marriage remained. So this finding is not correct. I am very pleased to be able to inform this large assembly here today that, according to the latest information, there will be no losses in Slovenian hospitals other than the Clinical Center. In these difficult times, we have moved these things with hospital management. The draft Health Act has been in public debate for more than 3 months. I don't remember any law in our system being among people for so long. But before this public intervention, which has been well informed of it, this also proves a large number of comments and complementary proposals to the draft. Because of this area, which Mrs Juliana Bizjak Mlakar mentions, they are not something entirely new or surprising, but they have been present in the text and the debate since its inception. All of them were also repeatedly predebuted and illuminated with different angles of view. We spoke to you personally at the Ministry and told you our arguments. This applies to the proposed management model in public institutions, the possibilities for private health activities, public operators, concessions and the like. We've explained all this to you. It is worth noting that the change in the management model of public institutions does not constitute a transition to an entrepreneurial management method, as health care homes and hospitals will still be public institutions with all specificities, with the draft law specifically stipulating that this activity is of the unprofitable and public interest of the Republic of Slovenia. This indicates that it is not about introducing entrepreneurship and the related opportunities for creating and sharing profits. It has already been said that there is no change in the management model for the introduction of entrepreneurial logic or business. It is only a matter of greater powers or responsibility for the management of public institutions to carry out their activities and to do more effectively. In the Council of Public Institutions, the representative of the Health Insurance Office appoints his members, who are representatives of patients, local communities appoint their members so that I do not see this problem. The draft law also does not provide for the possibility of the sale of hospitals or health homes; it is only provided that the concessional act sets out the obligations between the concessionaire and the concessionaire if the concessionaire is to have the premises owned by the tenant or if he only invests his own financial resources. Nor can the draft law be understood as preserving the illegal situation and decommissioning of health homes, on the contrary, since the draft just now clearly sets out what activities a healthcare institution must have in order to be able to meet the conditions for its existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Mrs. Juliana Bezjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u309	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. There have been many inaccuracies listed, which can be checked very nicely in the law that is available, which can be obtained and probably by Members, and probably also published by the minister on his website, and people would have no hope of finding the agency that the minister was talking about could be sought under this law, and they would have found that it is not in there as they can be sure of the other things. However, it is clear from this interview that this reform is being prepared without the necessary analysis, since this was a question [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u310	Juliana doesn't blame me, but she's not meant to ask the question of the controversy, but it's complementary. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u311	Yes, that is why I will ask for a reply to be completed, because the reform is being prepared without analysis, without a national strategy and without the consent of the population. This is contrary to the guidelines of the World Health Organisation and other international health documents that bind Slovenia as a member of the European Union. That's why I want to know: Are you going to do anything about it? Are you going to ask users or health care providers whether they are meant to be excluded from medical decisions? Are they for an experiment of management? Are they for sale at health homes or hospitals? Will you ask people if they are in favour of retaining the powers of professional supervision and licensing? Are you going to ask the congregations whether they are for the purpose of disposing of their property so that the minister can decide to sell health homes? Are there people for this, asking them that instead of health homes, they will have only concessionaries and some guidance that will coordinate them? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u312	Thank you very much. These are new questions. You should only ask for an additional reply, but given that you've put them up, the minister should assess whether he can answer within the time available.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u313	Some of these questions I find offensive. I won't answer them. At the last meeting, when we sat together when you were at the end of the table, a decision was taken and we agreed that the quality agency would return. You had written it, it went back to marriage, and please don't explain any more things, don't run away from people. You're asking me if I'm gonna ask doctors and contractors. Your colleague Magajna asked me earlier why I'm even asking doctors and talking. Sit down with ZaNas and your civil society together because you have a diametric opposite opinion, there are our citizens everywhere, let's agree, let's sit down. I'll take my time. For you, I took the time to interview for three hours, five hours to write written answers, and six hours to ask oral questions in the Parliament. If I had so much work and so much inaccuracies, I wouldn't, I don't know, be able to do it anymore. Please, we'll sit down next week, both of us, and we'll clear things up.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u314	Thank you. Mrs. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u315	I would like to take advantage of the business opportunity to discuss this at a meeting of the National Assembly, because Mr Minister is operating on the facts, it is known that one movement is only about society, three people are setting up a society. The movement is one thing, but it has existed since 2006. And here, manipulating some societies and bringing them to the same level as moving with over 74,000 people is insulting to those people who have signed these statements. I am also among the members of the movement, at the same time talking about when it is perfectly clear what the content of the law I have asked you about, Mr Minister, is what this quality agency is about in this law. This agency has been removed from this law. I don't know how many hours, or you know, Mr. Minister, I think it's bad to insult an MP like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-12-14-SDZ5-Redna-12.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Your proposal to hold a debate on the Minister's response will be decided tomorrow within the agenda item on the votes. I hereby end the question and initiative of the Member States. I thank the President of the Government and the ministers and ministers for the answers given. Thank you very much.
