ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the fourth meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member: Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Willi Rezman. I invited the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Council of the Court of Justice to the 18th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda for the 4th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 18 March 2009. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. Following the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, I propose that the agenda be extended by consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia, urgent procedure [[EPA 265-V]] . You received the proposal by letter of 20.3.2009. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I conclude the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're moving to the vote. Please check the voting devices, which means the orange light must be on fire. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 47 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. The assembly will consider this point as the 6th point on Thursday, 26 March 2009. We are moving on to the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference, and with a follow-up. We're voting. The vote is under way. I find that the assembly is not concluded, so we will repeat the vote. I ask Members and Members to take their seats and to allow for the normal course of the sitting by a vote. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. I'm guessing the National Assembly isn't concluded. I'm taking a ten-minute break. We'll continue the meeting at 10/12. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u2	Please take your seats. We vote on the agenda for the session. This is the third time we've voted. The vote is under way. 61 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 4th meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the 2009 budget for the Republic of Slovenia The proposal for a budget rebalancing was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, to present the proposal for the 2009 budget rebalancing. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u3	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Surely the day will come when I will be able to tell this high assembly that we have overcome the crisis and that a new period of economic optimism is beginning. But today this day has not yet come. Sooner or later, the Slovenian government will do everything it takes to make this happen as soon as possible and to get us out of the crisis stronger than we were pulled out of it. To achieve these high goals, however, we need to be extremely realistic. When we discussed the situation in the financial real and social sector months ago, we talked about economic uncertainty. Today we have every reason to talk about the global recession and the city of Slovenia in this crisis. This crisis is financial, it is economic, it is social and, last but not least, we see a crisis of ethics, especially business ethics. All these circumstances of the crisis and its dimensions must be fully seen and done. When we were preparing the budget's rebalancing, and I stress that this is an anti-crisis balance, we were preparing it in circumstances where the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development predicted that economic growth would be around 0.6%. As soon as the Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development informed me earlier this week that the forecasts were expected to be worse than they were, I informed colleagues and the Strategic Economic Council yesterday. The forecast is minus 4. This forecast shows that Slovenia is not an isolated island within the euro area, which is facing about the same poor economic growth forecast this year. The illusions that Slovenia could be such an island within the euro area and within the European Union are fragmented. We are exporting 70%, and now we are recording a large decline in export demand. This is the reality within which we live, and we must face this reality. Some believe that optimism should be encouraged, others feel that it is necessary to make an extremely pessimistic prediction because such predictions are supposed to be. I don't think the first or second path is appropriate. The right way to deal with the crisis right now is to be realistic. The world is in a deep recession, Slovenia shares the fate of this world. We know that we are not going to overcome the crisis ourselves, but we are aware that, within some realistic options, we can overcome the crisis more successfully by our own ingenuity and to some extent faster than we would if we did not act as time required of us. The balance of the budget is counter-crisis. It is important that we act counter-cyclically with this balance sheet and with all public finances, and also in this way help our economy. And that is precisely why the 2009 budget expenditure increases by 17% compared to last year. So far, the government has not wanted to interfere with investment or that part of the investment-related budget, because we believe that this will be a very important and stimulating impetus for our economy. It is also very positive that the current proposal for a rebalancing represents the largest increase in funds for the labour market and working conditions, i.e. by €338 million or 182%. Economic areas account for 175 million more than 138% of growth; science and technological development 153 million or 70%, and education 149 million or 9%. This will have a positive impact on the growth of our economy and will have favourable short- and long-term effects. As it is said, the projections of the decline of GDP are deteriorating from month to month, and according to these projections the budget deficit in Slovenia will exceed 3%. The same is true of most of our partners, members of the European Union. The incentive to demand will later turn and return to economic growth and economic optimism. The government is preparing a rebalancing for the situation of a possible extension of the decline in GDP, or else it will do everything in its power to deal with the situation in which we are. I would like to tell you that next week, within the framework of the crisis group of ministers, we will begin to prepare a third package of measures, both for those concerned with practical action and for those concerned with strategic action. I think that now, more than ever, it is clear that in the context of the social crisis, development policy is also the best social policy, so that we will direct our actions. They will be practical, but at the same time reflect the vision that the Government holds for Slovenia in the future. In this context, the budget rebalancing therefore rounds up a second package of anti-crisis measures aimed at improving business conditions. Among these measures were the most important so far: the Law on Full-time Subsidisation - while providing work for a shorter period, increasing the facilitation of investment in equipment and intangible assets, co-financing of the purchase of new technological equipment, guarantees to secure bank loans with a subsidised interest rate, co-financing of development and investment projects, provision of funds for the operation of the Risk Capital Society, which will encourage innovative entrepreneurial projects, mobility of staff, increased funds to promote technological development and research and development projects in enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen. By means of a rebalance, we are implementing our commitment to restructure the budget in a developmental way, as our largest increase in resources is dedicated to the Ministry of the Economy, the Ministry of Higher Education and Science, technology, the Ministry of Labour, the Family and Social Affairs. With these development measures, we want to help the economy as much as possible to deal with the economic crisis. While we are increasing resources for development within the budget, we are saving on items that are burdening the economy, mainly material costs and salaries. I would like to touch on one problem that will certainly be under discussion today. We have seen, at the beginning of the knowledge of the world, that it has fallen not only into uncertainty, but the crisis that some countries have concluded very quickly, with significant tax incentives, to overcome this crisis quickly. So far, these measures have not been successful. And these countries, which were once traditional countries of budgetary surplus, are now experiencing a large budget deficit. Slovenia was, and we with it, in an attempt to make this mistake, to immediately at the start of the crisis, mistakenly thinking that this crisis would be a short one, very quickly throw very much of the taxpayer's money into the black hole that it did not have and still has no bottom. These temptations have been, but in our view, we have resisted them well and properly. But we have taken the first and second package of measures in the direction of dealing with this crisis, which today is largely supported both at home and abroad. It's not without mistakes. It's not without weaknesses. Such a strategy, which would be ideal today, has no country. No country! No country can say that the measures have solved the problems it faces perfectly. In the view of the economy at home and in the opinion of foreign analysts, Slovenia has gone in the right direction. Our objectives are: to strengthen economic growth, to maintain and create new jobs, and - what I would like to say in particular - to pay special attention to social sensitivity. We must be particularly concerned that the social cohesion of our society is not fragmented in these circumstances. Here are the people most affected by this crisis, and they must be, just as those to whom we are giving incentives for development, given our great attention. If and to the extent that we maintain social cohesion, there will be so many favourable political atmospheres that we will be able to take the following steps that are ahead of us through social dialogue. Social dialogue and social cohesion will also be fully committed to the Government, as it has been so far. Only if we find suitable solutions and steps together can we count on them to be socially acceptable and to be successful. Some steps may not be fully agreed by the social partners. In this case, the Government, in particular in the next two quarters, will have to propose certain measures, which are inevitable. This will be done after a thorough consultation within the Government and with you in the National Assembly, if we assess that it is inevitable that we do not endanger the public financial picture of Slovenia, because this is a discussion on the financial or budgetary deficit. The majority opinion is that Slovenia, too, is unlikely to cope with this crisis without an increase in the budget deficit. However, I must say, as Prime Minister of the Government, that I am not in favour of some presidency in making decisions to substantially increase our budget deficit by means of measures. I'm not fond of you! This would mean putting the burden on our children to solve this crisis. I don't think we need to do this, I think we can afford to some extent a budget deficit, but only to some extent. To achieve this, we must take action both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side of the budget. In order to achieve satisfactory solutions, we need to engage in open social dialogue and take the necessary measures to do so. The government will therefore start the work of the crisis group of ministers next week. We will prepare a third package of measures. These will be of a practical nature and will be placed in some strategic project that we set ourselves up at the beginning of the mandate. In early April, we will start with a so-called development conference, where we believe that all important actors are invited to discuss these measures in the context of the vision we have. All of this will try to create the necessary social atmosphere to realize that we live in a very sensitive and uncertain time, but that we are all on the same boat and that we must row in the same direction. One thing I have to say! The fact that we are all in the same boat usually begins with those who have more power and responsibility to speak when our interests are threatened. That is when those who usually have less social development to understand the situation and row with us begin to be called upon. What I want to say today is that for us to be in the same boat and row in the same direction, we must work, but also after the crisis. We must provide the necessary assurance that we will remain in the same boat and row in the same direction. Without this, unions and other social partners, the consensus on the measures needed to overcome the crisis will not be successful. So, I think it is necessary to reinforce this awareness that we can only overcome the crisis together, that we are in the same boat, that we must row in the same direction, but at the same time we, who have the most power, political and economic, today must make sure that we remain in this boat even after the end of the crisis. Only in these circumstances can we appeal to act in a coordinated and ambitious manner. Only in these conditions! I have no doubt that today the National Assembly will deal with the proposal for a rebalancing, or else it is not. Let me once again say that this is an anti-crisis rebalancing, that it is necessary for our conduct, because the previous budget adopted in 2007, when we were dealing with conjunctura and with substantially different macroeconomic conditions. Today, the Government - and I hope that the National Assembly will respond with a balance that will give a positive impetus in particular to the economy. And then there will be new measures that, as I said, will be both practical and strategic. And they will be confronted again by the National Assembly and, as I said, by the social partners. At first, I said that we had no choice but to be real. And just because I'm real, I know that someday, even in this mandate, the day will come when we say that we have overcome this crisis together. Until then, there will be a lot of work, a lot of heated debates, a lot of common search, what is the right answer and what is not. In doing so, we must overlook the fact that such discussions are taking place in all the parliaments of the world that we belong to. And that there are different views on what is right and what is wrong, but in particular in the context of a small and open economy, we must try to design, as far as possible, a common view of how we will act. The government will shape this view very quickly in step three. Today, I ask the National Assembly, as it is said, to deal critically with the proposal of this rebalance, that, as far as possible, new ideas for the necessary conduct - all of this will be examined in the Government - that we accept the rebalancing to give the Slovenian economy a positive and needed signal and then immediately in the light of the real situation in which we are, we decide on the next steps and steps. Once again, if we want to preserve some necessary social climate for structural other reforms, we must take great care of the social cohesion of society. Don't forget the people that this crisis is trying the most, and at the same time strengthen as I said trust between us, as we will do after the end of this crisis in the same boat, and we will row forward together in order to overcome the crisis. That's not gonna work without it. I invite the Minister of Finance to explain the balance of the budget more precisely now, and I ask the National Assembly to accept it after the debate. Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President Borut Pahor. I also give the floor to the Minister for Finance, Dr. Frances Križanič, for further presentation of the draft 2009 budget rebalancing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! A respected high choir. You have before you the proposal for the 2009 state budget rebalancing. This is the first budget of this government, which has had to be prepared very quickly and I can say in a few special or exceptional economic circumstances. The preparation of this rebalancing was necessary because of three things: changes in macroeconomic origins; secondly, in last year, new laws have been adopted which have implications for the state budget and then need to be put into balance; and thirdly, the Government has taken immediate action after the adoption of the mandate to address the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis, together with other partners in the European Union, and in this context we have also drawn up measures, coordinated measures that also increase public spending. The 2009 state budget was adopted by the end of 2007. Due to last year's elections, the government of the previous constitution has not prepared changes to the 2009 budget, as provided for under the Public Finance Act. The macroeconomic picture, the economic situation today is significantly different from that of the adoption of the budget, this is autumn 2007 and the preparation of the national budget's balance was therefore necessary. That is how all macroeconomic indicators change, and this has consequences both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side of the budget. The decline in economic activity, both in the world and in us, was observed in the autumn of last year. We are facing a global financial crisis that has moved from the financial to the real sector in recent months. The uncertain economic situation in the world and at home increases the risk that the assumptions in the rebalancing will change, as you can see, the forecasts change from month to month. Different trends from forecast will have a particular impact on the revenue side of the budget. When preparing this national budget balance, we were at the Ministry of Finance as restrictive as possible in the planning of tax revenues, because we are aware of the uncertain situations in which we are today. Once the new macroeconomic baselines for this year are finally known, we will decide how we will act. The fact is that the new forecasts for the whole of Western Europe do not give us optimism, which means that we can expect a much worse picture for Slovenia than we have seen in the preparation of this balance. However, with the preparation or submission of this breakthrough crisis rebalancing to the National Assembly, it was simply not possible to wait any longer, as it was necessary to ensure the implementation of the anti-crisis measures and laws already adopted but not yet included in the State budget. Budget revenues are projected at EUR 8 billion or 22.8% of our gross domestic product, which is 0.05 gross domestic product less than realisation in 2008. So we're assuming that the tides will be lower than last year. And EUR 204 million less than in the approved budget. Of these inflows, out of these 8 billion 782 million euros, 7 billion 491 million euros are spent on tax revenues, 874 million euros on funds received from the European Union and 390 million euros on non-tax revenues. Since the adopted budget in autumn 2007 for 2009, incomes are the most declining, with a tax of EUR 222 million, and a corporate income tax of EUR 114 million. The reason for the lower income forecast is that in the lower estimates of the income increase from the labour ratio due to the decrease in employment and the stagnation of wages from the income of the activity, additional investment incentives, as well as the higher amount of income belonging to the municipalities, are in place. The lower assessment of corporate income tax is due to a lower assessment of economic growth, higher investment incentives for the small economy and a further reduction in the tax rate. Excise revenues of EUR 347 million, including petrol and diesel for EUR 278 million, alcohol for EUR 14 million and tobacco for EUR 55 million, are most increasing. European funds or inflows from the European Union budget are slightly lower than the adopted budget in autumn 2007, totalling €874 million, of which €460 million for structural policy. With the increase in excise duties, we want to ease the fall of other tax revenues a little bit. At a lower cost of fuel than we have seen in the last year, this was an acceptable measure that will positively affect the public financial balance and allow us to carry out anti-crisis measures. Finally, it is important that, this year, we definitively abolish the tax on salaries paid, which also means decommissioning the economy, in addition to the new investment incentives already mentioned and lower corporate income tax rates. All of this is likely to have a positive impact on the economy, increases the available income and does not have an impact on economic optimism and demand in these uncertain situations, and will have an impact on increased national consumption, both in us and in partner countries and in the world's largest economies, so that we can maintain optimism in order to bring about economic conversion. The fact is that a poor macroeconomic picture will further exacerbate or reduce the revenue of the state account. It is likely that another national budget balance will need to be drawn up this year, but this must not give us pessimism or fear. The government is aware of the reality of the situation and we are already preparing proposals for action at the Ministry of Finance. As President Pahor has said many times, we must remain optimistic. Certain signals in the global economy show that things are turning out better, but we need to stay on the ground and implement certain measures or structural reforms, even though they are unlikely to be popular. Among these signals, I would mention in particular because the real estate market has been taken into account as an indicator - it has started to improve in the US. While consumption of food and clothing has also been increasing following Obama's measures, the car market has not yet changed, and this has turned to Europe. So, some of the signals and indicators are that he could be turned around somewhere. Budget expenditure in the budget is increasing due to newly adopted legislation on anti-crisis measures and different macroeconomic baselines. If our planned actions are to have a positive impact on the economy and its growth, we need to act counter-cyclically with the budget or with all public finances and also to help our economy in this way. This is precisely why the 2009 budget expenditure increases by 17% compared to last year, while compared to the already adopted budget by 804 million, partly due to measures, partly due to adopted laws. The national budget balance provides for funds to cover all legal obligations. Part of the increase in expenditure also relates to the effects of the laws adopted by the National Assembly, the adoption of the 2009 budget, and therefore have not yet been included in it, or a source has not yet been provided in the State budget for the implementation of the tasks brought forward by the new laws. I do not want to burden you with all the details at this presentation, but it is certainly important to mention some of these laws: free kindergarten for another child and for all other children, free student diet for all students, additional funds for some emergency cultural programmes. The additional resources had to be provided for different macro-economic baselines for purposes which were in one way or another linked to inflation, wages, transfers of individuals, transfers to the pension fund. This is not due to new macroeconomic baselines for this year, but mainly due to higher inflation in 2007 and in the first half of 2008. This could not, of course, be taken into account in the preparation of the 2009 basic budget. The same applies to the elimination of wage imbalances following the so-called Virant wage reform in the public sector. At this point, I would particularly like to highlight an agreement with the public sector trade unions that have allowed the implementation of this reform to be postponed to a post-crisis period. We expect it to be early next year. When the final accounts for 2007 were confirmed, for the first time in the National Assembly, you encountered an opinion from the Court of Auditors requiring the return of investments in the public telecommunications network to be entered in the budget balance sheet A as a public expenditure. On the basis of this opinion, we have also taken 50 million euros in return to investors in the telecommunications network in the budget balance during the expenditure. In the budget balance, counter-crisis measures are largely intended to contribute to the faster development of the economy as a whole and its individual parts. The measures we are implementing relate to restructuring companies, promoting a small economy, promoting tourism and hospitality, creating new jobs and increasing the flexibility of businesses, promoting technological development in the economy. Among the measures taken by the Government, it is worth exposing the guarantees to the indebtedness of banks that would allow fresh money to flow to the financial market of the Republic of Slovenia and the guarantee scheme for companies that will enable banks to transfer this money more easily and safely into the economic system of our country. Dear Members and Members! The balance before you shows the maximum increase in expenditure for the purpose of subsidies, which is quite understandable, mainly due to the short-term subsidisation measure. Part of this measure will now be based on the concept of restructuring also on the possibility of the Ministry of Labour reacting where people are still in a working relationship, so it will be easier to help employees in companies with major liquidity problems and also businesses to make it easier for them to survive the period of decline in demand. It is said that one part of this money will be diverted, but for similar purposes to retain the highest possible level of employment and the highest possible standard of living for people under market pressure. In addition, several subsidies for technological development and the promotion and support of economic activities are also envisaged in the field of economy and science. As compared to 2008, subsidies increase by 86%, with the largest increase in investments immediately behind the subsidies. All investment funds, such as investments and investment transfers, are increasing by 35%. We have worked hard to keep this part of the budget as high as possible, but we have certainly taken into account that only the investment made has a positive impact on our economy, so only investments that are far enough prepared to have, say, building permits are covered here. The other plans, when they are mature, will be included in the budget subsequently. A large number on paper, if projects were not implemented, would only further aggravate the picture and there would be no impact on economic growth. Looking at the programme structure of the budget, the labour market and working conditions are the biggest increase of €339 million compared to 2008, and the increase index is 182%. The area of science and technological development is followed by an increase of € 153 million, the index is 70%, and an education area where the increase is € 149 million and the index is 9%. Ladies and gentlemen! Everything I have said is reflected in the balance of the budget prepared by the Government. The result, which is shown at the end, is a budget deficit, we assumed a stagnation of economic activity, the real stagnation of the GDB, a gross domestic product, was kept below 3% of GDP in the cash register in 2009. In doing so, it should be noted that other public cash financing will not be positive. Other public cash financing, that is, the Retirement and Disability Insurance Office, will not show a deficit, as the law already provides that all the missing funds must be made available directly from the State budget. According to current estimates, the Health Insurance Institute will show a deficit of 0.3% of the gross domestic product. In the budgets of the municipalities, the deficit is expected to be slightly lower this year than what was realized in 2008 and is estimated to be 0.2% of the gross domestic product. The reason for our slightly more optimistic forecasts is the last amendment to the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which left compensation for the use of building land to the municipalities in full to finance their development tasks, while at the same time increasing their respective income resources. The general government deficit will be around 3.4% of the gross domestic product if gross domestic product falls, and I have informed the European Commission that this larger deficit will be allowed as an automatic stabiliser to stimulate further economic growth. In the context of this deficit, it is estimated that 3% at the assumption of stagnation and at the assumption of a greater decline, we are approximately offset by a more developed part of the European Union - Germany and Austria - and in a more favourable position than most Mediterranean countries, let alone the countries of Eastern Europe. But we are slightly worse than the most developed part of Europe where technology policy has already produced results. Finland - part of the Netherlands will be in a more favourable situation. As the latest estimates of the macroeconomic situation in both the world and Slovenia show, we will have to implement certain additional measures already in 2009 and prepare a new balance in mid-year. With this balance and with the activities to be carried out for the 2010 and 2011 budget, preparations will start within the coming months, an exit strategy will have to be drawn up to rebalance public finances. First, with a possible slower improvement in economic activity, lower deficits and over time surpluses. This exit strategy will be prepared in the next 14 days in a stable report, which we are obliged to present to the European Commission, in a concept that is already being developed, and will include two scenarios in the concept: the first scenario will be the return to economic growth, where a more rapid balance will also be achieved, the second scenario will be the longer economic stagnation where the articles are being prepared and are already conceived in the concept, the measures set out, the postponement or extension of the implementation of both public treasury investments and the later introduction of certain rights that are not directly linked to the assistance of the socially most vulnerable. This is a scenario that is not so pleasant, but we may be forced to implement it with a rebalance in the second half of this year if fiscal measures are not taken. Finally, let me mention that in Kenya's promotion of economic activity, we are faced with the problem of virtually not having construction permits for both the third development axis and the modernisation of railways. So, putting these objects in space wasn't done in time. And now, despite the fact that the funds are provided, we cannot start to do so expeditiously. This will probably require the adoption of an extraordinary law, which would probably be the most acceptable for railways, which would lead to a much faster pace than ever before - usually these procedures will continue for up to three years - putting these facilities into space, it is said, will lead to construction permits, so that works can begin, which will also save a good part of our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u6	Thank you very much. The draft budget balance was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I'm giving the president a word. To Anton Rope for presentation of the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u7	Dear Members and Members, distinguished members and members of the Government, welcome! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the 2009 proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia as a working body. Let me begin by saying that I am pleased with the optimism of the Minister of Finance, as well as of the President of the Government; it is a pity that so much optimism was not at the work of the home committee. However, the reasons for the proposed rebalancing were explained in the introductory explanation provided by the rebalancing proponents. These are, of course, changed economic conditions, insufficient budgetary resources to finance newly adopted legal obligations and to provide funds for the implementation of anti-crisis measures already taken. According to the proposed rebalancing, the deficit in the state budget is expected to be lower by 200 million in 2009, and is expected to be 2.9% of GDP, taking into account other cash flows of 3.4%. In the opening, it was also stressed that if the economic situation deteriorates further, the deficit will be higher, around 4 to 5% of GDP, and will be comparable to the deficit in the countries that are our most important economic partners. Unfortunately, according to OMAR's latest estimates, this second is completely realistic. The reasons for planning the reduction of individual budget revenues have been clarified. Among other things, it was pointed out that the European budget inflows were planned at a slightly lower level than foreseen in the current budget. The government will try in this area, which is of paramount importance, to establish a simpler system of drawing on these funds and also a greater possibility of spilling them between individual eligible projects. In the introductory part, the UMAR representative briefed the Committee on some new data on the movement of macroeconomic indicators. In this context, he drew attention to the further deterioration of the economic situation and to the relatively high likelihood that economic growth would be negative. In doing so, the rebalanciers stressed that they are familiar with this information and are thinking, as we have heard today, about the preparation of this second year's rebalancing. In the debate on the tabled balance, members of the opposition committee made a number of critical assessments. Indeed, in their view, they confirm the claims that the proposed rebalancing is based at this time on inaccurate, pre-optimistic assumptions about the movement of individual macroeconomic indicators. In the changed situation, which has deteriorated significantly from the preparation of the tabled balance to its consideration, there is no possibility of an assessment of the reality of the planned amount of budgetary revenue, as well as of the deficit, and therefore the debate on the proposed cut in budgetary expenditure from this point of view is very difficult. It is increasingly evident that another balance will be needed this year. According to some members of the Committee, the proposed rebalancing is insufficient as the volume of funding for material costs increases to all users with rare exceptions. In particular, it was pointed out that some budget expenditure was planned at an unrealistic level, in particular the poor and low realization of the resources intended to partially subsidise full-time employment, which shows the weak functioning of the adopted anti-crisis measure to reduce the number of unemployed, and this in the case of a measure considered one of the most important measures of the Government. The following assessments and views were also expressed in the discussion of the members of the committee of the positions of the parliamentary groups, in which the proposed rebalancing represents an appropriate response to the financing of budgetary expenditure in the current crisis period. If the rebalancing is based on unrealistic assumptions, of course, this is not good, as a balance needs to be adopted that can be implemented. If it were to assume that the causes of the crisis were only psychological, the proposed rebalancing would be an appropriate response to the current situation and, of course, members are afraid that the current crisis is due to a decline in the credit potential of export and domestic markets. The government needs as much power as possible to redistribute budgetary resources while implementing the budget, as this is an exceptional situation that will take some time. If the Government can firmly defend the reality of the expected level of funds received from the European Union, then we believe that the budget will be implemented in the development part. However, if these assumptions are unrealistic, the proposed balance is, of course, questioned. The Committee has identified up to 42 amendments to qualified candidates, supported some amendments and, of course, we hope that these amendments will be adopted in the end. On his own, he supported and proposed two additional amendments, which did not substantially change this proposed balance, and of course I believe that the amendments will be supported and adopted in the context of the debate of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u8	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Mr Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u9	Honourable President, Honourable President of the Government and Ministerial Assembly, colleagues and colleagues. In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposal for a decision to adopt the 2009 budget balance. The balance ahead of us is prepared in difficult times in a way that limits debt on the one hand and mitigates the consequences, particularly in the area of job reduction - the consequences of the crisis. We do not know how deep the crisis will be, so, according to some predictions, and even our assessments, there is a possibility that another balance will have to be made, especially if things are shown to go differently from expectations. In the introductory part of the proposal for a rebalancing, the government has promised that in the area of the use of European Union funds, resources can be redistributed among cohesion projects, which, according to our assessment, would allow for better and more efficient use and absorption of resources from the European budget, so we want this promise to be fulfilled. This would mean, in practice, that funds could be redeployed from projects where there is no likelihood that they would be completed by the end of the year to projects that could have faster realisation dynamics. One of the areas that could undoubtedly be gained by restructuring European spending would be tourism as a multidisciplinary task. In the DeSUS Group, we are pleased that the economy acquires at all levels or within different ministries, including in the area of science and technology development and so on. We are also pleased that the Government and the Home Committee have shown obedience to students or scholarships, to environmental issues with the support of the amendment to increase the position to promote efficient use and renewable energy sources, to improve the environment, to the water planning and management items and to some other amendments in the field of environmental protection, and to the amendment to increase funds for the construction and investment of local roads and public roads. We are also pleased with the support of the amendment, which reduces consumption within the various ministries for material costs. Unfortunately, however, we must express our disappointment at the point where there is a single allowance or a one-time so-called Dragan supplement for pensioners. The DeSUS delegation was expecting two. Firstly: that the Act of Supplement in the normative part of the Government programme for 2009 and that the Supplement in such form as has been announced or otherwise implemented. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we decided to support the amendment, which would allow funds for a single pension allowance in the balance, but unfortunately was not adopted. We are even more disappointed with the attitude of the Secretary of State, who has been vehemently asserting that pensioners would be privileged to do so. In the DeSUS Group, we wonder how someone can be privileged with 300 or 400 euros of monthly income in this country, where poverty is deepening. Otherwise, in the parliamentary group, we insisted that the Government introduce this law into its normative work plan, and we will also insist on it in the future. By being able to target not only the socially weak pensioners but also other socially disadvantaged citizens. According to our assessment, the government has not yet confirmed the words of the Minister of Finance that it is a socially oriented budget or a rebalancing. Thus, for example, it is difficult to agree that the reduction in the country's "commitment to STD" item by a little over €18 million is a social act. Nor can we mark the reduction of the item 'buying and building of basic funds in the field of social protection of the elderly' with the same label, as home funds are lower than expected. However, we expect that in 2009 a programme for building houses for the elderly will be adopted in the coalition programme and that adequate funds will be provided for this purpose in the next three years. In the Republic of Slovenia, we have a poor situation regarding the material situation of the pensioners compared to the active work of the population. We all know that our pension system is barely sustainable. Prior to this, we must not close our eyes, we must act, and above all not hinder the development of social and health care for the elderly, because it is more than obvious that the number of elderly will grow and that the problems of this type will be worse every day. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware that the situation is unfavourable, difficult to save in a wide range of areas, while at the same time we hope that the planned measures, which are partly integrated into this budget balance, will have the expected economic recovery effects and that somehow we will all come out of the crisis together and survive this terrible experience. In the belief that the rebalancing does follow this purpose, our Group of Members will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u11	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister, Ministers and Ministers, government experts! We will support the rebalancing in the Slovenian National Party. Simply put, if it's a war, it's a war for everyone. This means that measures are necessary, measures are necessary. We also know that in such a short period of time, the Government could not make an ideal budget rebalancing, which is understandable. And just like colleagues, and colleagues will say, we are confident and know that another balance will be needed, in fact, the real balance, because in the Slovenian National Party we estimate that this balance is just a preparation for that real, real one. Although UMAR was still a mystery at the parent’s working body meeting on Monday. Well, this mystery has been revealed, the decline in GDP or economic growth is supposed to be minus 4%. Better real score than nothing, although in the Slovenian National Party it seems to us that the decline from December to today is projected to be 0.6 to minus 4, but too quickly: whether the assessment is wrong or not was that assessment in December law. Indeed, we could find things in the budget balance that would require further changes. The fact is that this will result from the decline in economic growth due to the decline in commodity exports. We know that. Above all, the fall in investments will be the one that will be very important, especially in construction, and in investments in machinery and equipment. Even though we know this, it is on these items that the funds planned for investments in construction, road programs, machinery and equipment are being reduced; but it is. What is wrong is what I once again say that in the Slovenian National Party we say that if war is war, that war is war for all, we see that the only growth is recorded in national consumption. For this reason, the Slovenian National Party will support the only amendment supported by the 25-page amendment tabled by the Mag. The crane - because it equals everything. It is incomprehensible that the President of the Government in his office is saving, it is incomprehensible that the National Assembly is saving, while I prefer to list them because "I get smallpox", other public services are raising salaries, increasing material costs. Look for yourself, I won't list them! That's incomprehensible. If we are saving, we are saving everyone, including people with reduced working hours, with lower wages, with subsidies, they are making their contribution to preventing the recession or crisis - the crisis is not yet, and I hope that it will not even come around us. And I would like to point out one more thing: let us all remember the words of the Prime Minister who said, "Recession is also an opportunity for rapid rise and development." And that's true, Mr. Prime Minister. That's the most important thing. That's right! But not that way! Some took his words literally and said, "Oh. K., now we have a chance to develop", and they have "crowded" wages and "crowded" material costs. Not like that! Recession is a challenge to develop through measures to give up something to make it better for us two years from now. It bothers me that the State of the Republic of Slovenia is so concerned about the Maastricht criteria. I am in favour of respecting the 3% drop in economic growth. But all 27 countries in Europe! Slovenia is conscious, and I am concerned, at every meeting of the mother's working body, we hear how we will apologize to Europe that our growth will be more than 3% or less. And how are we going to make excuses now, you poor thing? When economic growth in Europe was gold, in bloom, the leading countries, including France, were quietly making fun of each other and exceeded the Maastricht criteria by 1, or 2%. Nothing! And now we're afraid! There's nothing to be afraid of. That's the way it is. It is not the only Slovenia that will experience a higher drop of 3%. But our concern is, and we therefore welcome the budget's rebalancing to avoid this in a year or two. Of course, we don't like the fact that wage ratios in the state administration keep it high. We're back there: if there's a war, it's a war for everyone. And once again, the Prime Minister saves, his office saves, the National Assembly saves, the rest of us go up! It's not working! That is why I expect colleagues and colleagues, in this National Assembly, that we will all support the amendment, which is written on 25 pages and which is written by Mr Žerjav and which is equally acceptable to all. In the Slovenian National Party, we will actively participate and actively participate in the next rebalancing process. We will stick to the rules of the game, as I expect you to remain colleagues and colleagues. The government - I understand - is dissatisfied with many: some are dissatisfied with the reduction in energy savings; others are dissatisfied with the reduction I do not know what else. But once again, if it's war, it's war for everyone. Well, we've got to eat it. Now, looking through the amendments to whom to raise, to let go is illogical. We know that we have to keep the economy; we know that we have to keep and maintain employment as much as possible, and we know that we must preserve everything that is written in the development programmes. Please don't take it there. We have to take care of education. I have to take care of health care. This is a place where recession can't be known. But you can know about our salaries, if you like, and the salaries of all the other gentlemen and ladies! And even if margins are legalized in merchants to be reduced so that people can normally be bought equally in normal stores. We'll help the government. We expect this rebalancing to be the first, probably soon the second, to bring some results, and we expect that the second will be a little easier to do with our help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The 2009 state budget was prepared and adopted in 2007. To date, there have been huge deviations in most macroeconomic indicators for 2009. Yesterday we experienced a cold shower with the announcement by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development that GDP will fall to minus 4% in 2009. By the way, the 2009 budget was adopted on the basis of a 7.1% GDP growth forecast. Let me just finish with this most important pointer. The proposal for a rebalancing was prepared by the Government on the basis of a December updated autumn forecast of economic trends, which, according to an alternative scenario of economic trends, still predicted a positive 0.6% growth in domestic gross product. Now what? We have found ourselves in a very unusual situation: we are accepting a budget rebalancing when we are aware of everyone sitting here, that a new balance will be needed very soon. In the face of the coming economic crisis, which the previous government was aware of at the end of its mandate, the current government has taken a number of measures to mitigate the consequences of the economic crisis and promote the economy. A number of changes in tax and financial legislation have been adopted, which, according to our assessment, are too bold and effective. Those changes aimed at awakening the functioning of the interbank financial sector have no effect; the credit crunch, as we discussed last time, has not yielded. The need for money for the Slovenian economy does not want to leave the safe buckets of Slovenian and international banks. Measures that directly improve the liquidity of the Slovenian economy and which are directly influenced by the Slovenian government are, to say the least, too brave. We can also say that sometimes throwing sand in your eyes. Let's take a look at the budget balance. Maybe for starters, scary information. The investment rebalancing, together with investment transfers, is worth €1.4 billion. So the debt is equal to - how much? Exactly 1.4 billion euros. What does that mean? It means that everything that comes into the budget sings, or else, all the investments we have in the budget are at the expense of the debt. So Slovenia is no longer able to make investments on its own account; this seems to me to be a frightening information. Revenue is forecast as it is, and it is likely and unfortunately we cannot have much impact on the planning of the rebalancing. Here I find it interesting the only fact that we have been listening for some time to how the previous government has ineffectively planned receipts and spending on European funds, even 60% of efficiency has been talked about according to planned. However, if we look at the item 'Acquired funds from the EU', we see that it is obvious that this government has only found that everything was not so bad because, under the terms 'ineffective planning of the previous government' reduces by 2%. Then we wonder what was needed by all the rhompoms on many occasions. Expenses. This shows the total inconsistency of this government. At that time, when there are populist forecasts of savings, of paying for coffee at our own expense, of lowering the salaries of Members, and might even be listed, I can say that we have an extremely insecure balance ahead of us in the times we are in. If we look only at the beginning of the budget, namely government and non-governmental budget users, we find that the Cabinet of Presidents of the Government and the National Assembly are great winners in saving. The cabinet of the Prime Minister with almost 11% of the savings and others, i.e. the National Assembly, with 4.21% of the savings. Everyone else has a slight reduction, they're four, and most of them are an increase, which is 16 of them. The President of the Republic of Slovenia managed to save only 26 000 €, while the Secretary-General of the Government granted a good million higher budget, i.e. an increase of 7.22%. The anti-corruption commission stands out with a 118% increase, let's say that this part is justified, although I believe that there would also be a 50% increase in this crisis, and an Information Officer with a 24% increase. The government has decided to save. Later, austerity measures were taken, and 30 measures were discussed by the Government. Unfortunately, the effects of measures that we consider to be a measure in general are assessed as minimal or not with the exception of wages. For many measures, we estimate that they were not measures at all, but the ongoing tasks of the users of public funds, which only you should carry out all the time. These facts, in fact, also appear or are reflected in this rebalancing. So the example set by the president of the government and the National Assembly went to get mushrooms. We can all put it on our hats together. In fact, we kind of smiled. I say red tape celebrates us in every way and laughs at us in a mustache. She won again. She took care of herself. And here I'm not talking about wages, but for everything else, they're obviously not interested in what's going to happen to our economy. I am talking about unacceptable increases in some items such as material costs, investments, investment maintenance, in short, in public consumption. In this segment, I'm talking about a segment of spending on goods and services that weighs almost a billion euros, we've saved only 2.63%, or slightly less than 25 million euros, on the fact that some have saved a lot more, and many have also spent significantly more or will spend significantly more. I estimate that when drawing up the budget, we did not have a strategy, a goal or a framework to ensure that the starting points for all consumers are the same. I know exactly how these budgets are prepared. I have a feeling there was no one to hit the table, to hit the table so that the table would break into two halves and stop the horses. You know, ladies and gentlemen, it is more than obvious that we lack economists in the government. With all due respect to all members of the government, they obviously do not know how to behave when an economic society is in crisis. I know that from my experience. It is then necessary to cut unnecessary costs over time and over, and our society is in crisis this time, and we should do so. I firmly believe that in the segment I am talking about all the time, expenditure on goods and services, public spending, is possible to save at least 10% at the moment. So I'm talking about about about 100,000 million euros. But, respectable, of course, it takes a firm hand to do so and, as you know, we have prepared a so-called mega amendment in this regard in the Slovenian People's Party. It seems even that the money that has been distributed through this budget could be partly politically divided. If we take the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Economy, the biggest increases in budgets are ministers, who are at the same time party presidents, and unfortunately do not occupy those ministries that are key to resolving this crisis. However, there is also a significant increase in some of the items in some of the regional projects of those regions that played a decisive role in the last parliamentary elections. These regions have also received some completely new items that were not available in the 2009 budget. What do you want me to say about the ending? Thank God we're about to meet the new 2009 budget rebalancing. I hope that, on this occasion, the President of the Government will be more decisive in setting guidelines, targets, frameworks for all budgetary users. Slovenians and Slovenes are expecting actions, and at the moment, above all, rigorous savings in the public spending segment and on the basis of this assistance to the economy, not words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Greetings to the mandate-holder and the ministerial team! We are witnessing an important action for the further development of Slovenia and in the Liberal Democracy that the 2009 Balance of Budget of the Republic of Slovenia is an appropriate response to the problems we face during the global financial and economic crisis, and we will therefore support it. It must be said that taking medication is usually bitter, but in addition to time it is the only thing that helps to heal. But we certainly do not agree with what some from day to day are stressing more and more, we are certainly in a serious tight economic situation and crisis, and there is no war situation in Slovenia. It must be said that there is a challenge and a response to some past times, as the basic budget has been prepared by other managers and in other, different times. Also a reflection of today's pronounced crisis, which is reflected mainly through a severe decline in economic growth in recent months and an even more drastic decline in industrial production, would require a rebalancing of the state budget that we have today. Even by the fact that the government finally thinks one step forward and is already thinking about what the next budget rebalance that it has in mind is going to be, there is nothing wrong with it, the good master sees for sure longer than just to his own threshold. The very nature of the preparation and adoption of two-year budgets leads to the fact that, of course, additional resources must be provided to cover all new legal obligations, since the budget for this year has already been adopted by the end of 2007. It is also important to stress once again the need to cover all the commitments that were too low or not planned in the adopted budget. There were times when people needed to be liked at all costs, elections were approaching, of course, we who are here, no one thought about adopting the laws they liked, and the hole is 590 million euros, which is, of course, a lot of money for our budget. What are the key areas? Surely a positive measure is linked to kindergartens. We welcomed him, we took him, the decisions were right, I attach him to it today, but it is necessary to provide money for these matters. Student diet. A similar story, everything's fine, everything's fine, we support, but we only have to pay now. Similar stories are higher education and other institutions, universities. It also seems important to me that we have managed to increase the financial leveling of the municipalities. The so-sung pay reform of the former Minister of Public Administration is not a matter of losing words - one of the knee shoots that must be paid for. However, the budget rebalancing is needed, in particular because of the significantly poor economic conditions foreseen at the time of the preparation and adoption of the previous budget, due to different developments, key macroeconomic indicators in last year and the forecasting of their developments this year, which are significantly worse than the forecasts taken into account in the preparation of the budget, in autumn 2007. Some who were in key positions in Slovenia about five, six months ago probably also need to be considered and argued that there is no recession and there will be no talk. The macroeconomic forecasts, unfortunately, indicate a sharp decline in economic growth, as this is expected to decrease by up to 4%, and some pessimistic estimates suggest that the decline is even higher. Exports are expected to decrease by 8.6%, with 10.3% reduction in imports, which may not be so bad. Inflation is expected to remain at the level of a good percentage, which is fine. It should also be recognized that we are simply not the main pilot on this great European ship, but we are still dependent on, say, Germany as our most important economic partner, whose gross domestic product is expected to fall from 5% to 7% this year. Such a poor macroeconomic framework, of course, means reducing all budget revenues this year, especially tax; our estimate is around 370 million euros. The government replaces this failure with a revised excise policy, with, in our view, full support, and certainly also a few reserves. In other words, the revenue of the state budget will fall by 0.5% of the gross social product and expenditure will increase by 2% of the gross social product. Increasing expenditure is essential in response to the challenges of time. The already adopted and planned anti-crisis measures should also be financed, which should help to survive primarily the key part of the Slovenian economy. A total of EUR 614 million is earmarked for this part. The adequacy of these funds can be discussed on one side or the other and the effects will be judged later. However, we can certainly all wish together that new, additional anti-crisis measures are not necessary, as this would mean that they are already sufficiently effective and that we have already experienced the bottom of the crisis, and unfortunately there is little chance of such a thing. However, the question arises as to how much of a budget deficit could still be acceptable in these extremely unfavourable situations. With the proposed rebalancing, the budget deficit is supposed to be just below 3.3% of the gross social product or if we translate it into an amount of around 1.1 billion euros. The budget deficit is practically 3% on the Maastricht border, and is likely to exceed it, especially if a likely deficit in the health treasury is added, which we agree is not to be saved, but rather to seek rationalisation and improvement. Also, the deficit over the Maastricht border this year, according to the LDS, is not necessarily problematic, of course, if it is only a temporary stabilisation deficit and if both policy and social partners agree to start eliminating it in a poor economic situation, i.e. in the near future, with solid, quantitative reduction targets, for example in the next five years. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will defend such a position and enforce it within the current government coalition. At the same time, we will also advocate the establishment of firm legal rules to limit the scope of public debt, and therefore in our Group we support the establishment of a fiscal world as an independent professional institution that is watching over the quality of our fiscal policy. At the same time, we must point out that, in the past, the previous government, with high economic growth, has afforded the luxury of not making serious but badly needed structural reforms. At the time we did not save, even more, we supported the accelerated debt. Let us just remember the changes in the system of financing the construction of Slovenian motorways. Debt in particular abroad has increased abnormally in the previous term. Economists note that Slovenia, from a net foreign creditor of 3.3% of gross social product, became a net debt-to-foreign country at the end of 2004 with a total of 23% of gross social product at the end of 2008. The bulk of such high economic growth was also based mainly on the borrowing of growing construction activities and on exports of under-added products, i.e. on two activities that are particularly sensitive to cyclical movements and shocks. As has already been said, we have not started in the past, but it would be necessary, by restructuring-economy, by investing in technological development and in knowledge. Unfortunately, we have not done so, and this is the task and purpose of this mandate. If such restructuring had been at least partially carried out, the economy would certainly have been more responsive and more successful in coping with the shocks of the global financial and economic crisis. These facts also determine the macroeconomic framework of this year's budget rebalancing, and such a macroeconomic framework makes this year's budget change conditional, in particular, on an instrument to address the acute crisis and less than an instrument to ensure that Slovenia's developmental transformation is rooted in urgent economic restructuring. With all the emphasis on the necessity of implementing structural reforms or investing budgetary resources in development, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia as a liberal social party, we are also aware of the social security of citizens and citizens, especially at a time when unemployment is increasing from day to day. All attention should be paid to this and, of course, a sufficient part of the resources, which is why I would like to point out in particular the fact that the budget changes increase the funds for transfers to the unemployed by 55%. At the same time, I really hope that it will be enough, but it would be even better if at least a few of these funds remained unused at the end of the year. The funds for all social transfers are increasing by 13.9%, and in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group we hope that they will be enough to alleviate the consequences of the economic crisis facing the socially weak ones in this society. If, perhaps, resources are not sufficient to further deepen the crisis, they need to be substantially increased with the second balance of this year's budget, which will almost certainly be needed. At the same time, we still believe and stress that the social transfer system needs reform. The funds may be sufficient, but they are certainly unfairly divided. Surely, some by accumulation of social assistance are getting more than they would have; on the other hand, the weakest, the most threatened, with the means we are intended to provide them, of course, cannot survive in any way decently. Let me also touch on the successful use of European funds. There is a bad billion planned there, including its own participation, that is large and important money, so the government and ministries are thinking in the right direction to draw on European funds to simplify, rationalise and make it even more successful. It must be said that in 2008 we managed to achieve only 12%, clearly pre-optimistically planned Structural Funds funds, and 70% of the planned Cohesion Fund funds, and that by 1 June, when the extended draw for the Single Programme Document 2004-2006 is exhausted, much work needs to be done. Of course, it is up to you to focus on making effective use of resources for the period up to the end of the financial perspective 2007-2013. These funds are of paramount importance during the crisis period, especially because they promote investment, construction and countercyclical activities and also have an impact on consumption in some way. To conclude, I would like to stress once again that the rebalancing is determined by a significantly poor macroeconomic framework, reflecting a fiscal picture of a recession following World War II, which has affected Europe and the world as a result of the globalisation of the modern world. We support the efforts and reflection that we are already talking and planning another rebalancing if we need it by the end of the year. Much effort, energy and coordination have been put into such a rebalancing. All together, in particular, we thank the Government and the Committees for their in-depth work, but we are confident that we can, we know and more, and we will all prove this together in the 2010 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Lazslo Göncz has the floor on behalf of the Group of National Communities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President of the Government, the Council of Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! We are committed to working actively with the members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, as the founders of the current coalition have written in a coalition agreement about 6 months ago, when preparing the draft budget. If we evaluate the proposal for the 2009 budget rebalancing from the perspective of indigenous national communities, we can see some inconsistencies in practice compared to the cited part of the document. It is true that some of the items relating to national communities in the proposal for a rebalancing are covered, and it is true that only after the adoption of the coalition agreement has the economic and financial recession come to light. However, it is also true that in recent months we have often found that the most vulnerable communities, which, in terms of their existence and development, also undoubtedly include indigenous national communities in Slovenia, are not expected to be further limited in the implementation of their basic activities. The latter has been highlighted several times by the Prime Minister himself, Mr Borut Pahor. Unfortunately, we estimate that the overall downward trend of the proposed balance, which is, of course, in terms of the integrity of this balance and the promotion of the economy in terms of the situation, is understandable, does not wish to spare the national communities either. The main problem is that the tendency also applies to the part of the programme that is part of the basic activity of nationality. At least this way we can conclude on the basis of the debate and decision within the Committee on Finance and monetary policy of the National Assembly. This also confirms the government's definition of the amendments tabled here today. Let there be no misunderstanding, even in the national community we are aware of the situation in which most of the world and Europe, as well as Slovenia, are. We also know that the true dimensions of such a crisis, as we have not felt in the 20th century, are also expressed in the predictions of the greatest experts with certain reserves and considerable uncertainties. That is why, in a detailed analysis of the proposed balance within the national communities, we behaved, according to our assessment, extremely responsible and rational. Unfortunately, we have only been able to present our comments and proposals within the framework of the Commission for National Communities, because, as I have already mentioned, we have not been given the opportunity, despite the assurances, to participate in those issues that are vital to our activity and the existence of the community. However, while we are aware of the situation that we are only accepting an anti-crisis rebalancing, in the context of the national communities, we have united ourselves in the view that, with the lack of resources in the course of existing investments in education, with some inconsistencies in the area of regional policy and culture, in the given situation, we will not burden the budget balance, but will focus the amendments only on the field of information activities or national RTV programmes and the only Hungarian weekly in Slovenia, because, in the case of the current level of funds, it will be impossible to realise the basic activity. We are also surprised at the Government's position, which, on the basis of at least unknown arguments for us, did not support our proposals. This text, which we have received today, is argued only with a subjective assessment that the funds provided are sufficient. I'd like to re-emphasize. In the context of the rebalancing, we are asking for basic funds for national RTV programmes that were already provided in support of basic activities in last year. In the proposed balance, this is forgotten. In this case, it is a core activity. Next. We propose to provide a bilingual supplement for employees in national RTV media, because this clearly determines, although perhaps in the light of the situation to a lesser extent, that is also a legal obligation in this case. We ask for even a smaller amount for the implementation of the activities of the only Hungarian week, which has been in the past months, thank God, has managed to consolidate to some extent, but they still lack some €50,000 in basic activities. I was one of those who over the past months argued everything before various non-transparent and, above all, incorrect comparisons, because I have been and I believe that Slovenia can best help the Slovak Slovenes with its exemplary minority political attitude. I highly appreciate the efforts made so far by all the political options that have been pursued in the past, and I hope that this will be so today and in the future. I am also very surprised, by the way, that the proposal to support the activities of foreign Slovenians on the Committee on Finance has also not received support. I cannot possibly understand the logic that, contrary to our assurances, we are all working together to provide financial support to the Slovenian communities in Italy, Hungary and elsewhere, in our balance, we are moving away from the most urgent support to the national communities in the field of information, which does not have a quantitative impact on the overall budget structure, but at the same time means the necessary resources for the national public institutions to implement their basic programme in a fair manner. It would be very surprising, too tragic, for neighbouring countries to meet at least the most urgent financial requirements; to mention that in recent weeks the remarks were also worth a step in Hungary; and in the case of the Hungarian-Italian national community in Slovenia, a step back would be taken in this area. For Prekmurje, I must point out that in the proposed development and rehabilitation programmes, despite already such a significant backlog, the area is also worse represented by general estimates, which, despite repeated warnings at the shortest possible time, unfortunately could lead to a real social disaster and a further backlog of the area for the rest of Slovenia. In doing so, we cannot refer only to the partial construction of transport infrastructure, as it is clear to us that this area has been forgotten most in the past. Let me conclude by supporting the general direction of the Government in relation to the 2009 budget rebalancing, when it rightly sets up certain development-oriented programmes or investments in the field of higher education, science, economy, culture and infrastructure and social welfare transfers against the crisis, but I cannot agree with the approach that, in the same context, in the field of national information activities, unfortunately does not guarantee the normal implementation of the basic programme, which, compared to the positive trend, is a reverse act. I therefore once again ask the Government and, above all, the Members of the National Assembly to have a comprehensive dimension of the proposed amendments by the Commission for National Communities when deciding on the balance. As a result of client or other principles, they should not reduce activities that ensure a minimum level of normal implementation of national information programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Anton Rop, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u19	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished members of the Government! We accept the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009 in exceptional circumstances. The global global, financial and economic crisis does not, on the contrary, fall first in most of the most important, developed economies, both in the United States of America and in the euro area as well as in Japan. Forecasts of economic trends in the world and in the European Union are deteriorating from month to month. The forecasts of the duration of the crisis are increasing, and the number of banks, businesses and economies that are in serious trouble is increasing, while the number of unemployed and related social distresses worldwide are steadily increasing. Such bad forecasts of economic trends for the European Union and the world economy have not been all from World War II. Unfortunately, Slovenia, because of its involvement in world economic movements, has no and there can be no exception. Recent data on economic activities show that the slow growth of credit activity and the reduction of the size of credits further discourage economic activity. However, the key impact on the decline in economic activity in the latter reflect a decline in export markets, not surprisingly, the latest forecasts for economic growth for Slovenia are negative. There is no doubt that we are also witnessing an increasingly acute economic, financial, social situation in Slovenia. Slovenia is no longer just in a credit crunch, we can also talk about an export, production, economic and social spasm. The exceptional and acute situation requires us, above all, to take appropriate action from the Slovenian Government. Action that will work to help, action that will indirectly and directly promote credit, financial and economic activity. We need measures that will be well thought out, but will be timely and will work in particular. By now, the Slovenian Government has prepared and adopted some urgent measures, like other Member States of the European Union, to reduce the consequences of the crisis. In particular, the measures we have taken so far have ensured the necessary security of bank deposits and have encouraged greater liquidity of the banking system. The measures were therefore primarily aimed at preventing the deepening of the financial and economic crisis in our country. It is also certainly good that we have strengthened the position and role of the Slovenian Export and Development Bank, the Enterprise and Risk Fund by amending the legislation. Some other measures have also been prepared and adopted, which are already operating to a lesser or greater extent. Among other things, the so-called short-term scheme, which, for once, operates in a relatively limited and substantially under-sized scale. And we could list it. Nevertheless, it is clear to all that the measures so far have been necessary and necessary, but far from being sufficient and not in the world, not in Europe, nor in us. There will be a need for additional, more radical, more decisive and even more targeted measures. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Today we are considering a proposal for a 2009 budget rebalancing. His admission is necessary for a number of reasons, and two are crucial. These are: the macro-economic situation changed and the adoption of emergency anti-crisis measures. The 2009 state budget was prepared and adopted in 2007. To date, there have been significant deviations between the actual movement and forecasts of most macroeconomic aggregates, both for 2007 and for 2008, resulting in a completely different starting base for 2009 from the foreseeable one. Since the fall of last year, we have witnessed a steady decline in economic activity, both in the world and in us. As we say, we are facing an economic and financial crisis that requires appropriate action and adaptation. Economic policy, economic measures, the state budget, which has mirrored the government and state policy and action systems, must be adapted all the time. Although the 2009 draft budget rebalancing takes account of the revised economic situation and macroeconomic forecast found at the time of the preparation of the rebalancing and the related under-planned resources in the budget to ensure the majority of the legal obligations, the necessary provision of additional resources for new legal obligations, the provision of funds for the implementation of measures to mitigate the financial or economic crisis. However, as we can see from yesterday's latest economic forecasts, problems and the need for change are even greater. The economic situation has changed so rapidly lately that there have been significant deviations between forecasts of macroeconomic aggregates even at the time of the preparation of the proposal for a rebalancing to date. The latest predictions of Umar, which were released yesterday, are worrying as of today. It concerns strong negative economic growth or negative gross domestic product growth by 4%. As we have pointed out in the Committee on Finance, Slovenia has so far been able to record more favourable economic growth than its closest, most important trading partners. Typically, economic growth in Slovenia was 2 to 3% higher than in Germany, Austria and some other comparable countries. That is why we highlighted when we talked to Umar, that we expect that even when economic growth goes down, this economic growth will be less negative than in comparable economic partners. Today we find that it is really less negative, but at the same time we find that it is too negative, that these derogations are significantly too low in relation to other economic growth. The latest estimates are 8.6% of the decline in exports, the most important growth generator in Slovenia, 10.3% of the decline in imports, 5.4% of the decline in employment, an additional increase in registered unemployment, 7.7% to 8.9%. Alarm. It is also particularly alarming to estimate the decline in investment in fixed assets from 2%, from minus 2 to minus 12. And for the first time, the decline in private consumption is estimated at 0.6%. It is therefore a matter of substantially modified, worse assessments of the economic situation and growth above expectations, as it undoubtedly entails fundamental changes in the assessment of public finances and, consequently, the assessment of the necessary, necessary expenditure, the assessment of possible and desired expenditure and priorities, as well as the assessment of the expected and targeted public financial and budgetary deficit. The government, the National Assembly and the general public need a thorough reflection on how to proceed, what measures and what priorities. Given the substantially changed economic and social circumstances, the conclusion of the National Assembly would likely be clear in the light of the balance we have today. On such estimated assumptions, the rebalancing would be questionable. However, we need to ask ourselves what is the alternative in this case, the existing budget is better or worse than the new budget proposed. Above all, whether the existing budget can cover already adopted legal and other obligations. We have time. Can we take it for a second? Can some of the counter-crisis measures contained in the budget rebalance wait for a new, more realistic balance to be drawn up? The answer is in hand: commitments already made and emerging, along with tight conditions, they urgently need to change the budget. The government and the National Assembly must act. They must act today, they must act tomorrow and they will have to act in the future. Therefore, in the SD Group of Members, we propose to adopt the 2009 budget rebalancing and prepare to adopt a new, new situation of the adjusted balance. While we are pursuing the following objectives with the proposal for a rebalancing of the state budget: aligning the budget's revenue with the revised macroeconomic forecasts, providing resources for the consistent implementation of legal obligations, providing funds for the implementation of anti-crisis measures, counter-cyclical action by the Government, limiting wage expenditure in line with the agreed agreement with the public sector's trade unions, maximising the use of resources for the implementation of European cohesion policy and ensuring, which is also important at this time, fiscal sustainability by minimizing the budgetary deficit to a level according to the estimated economic developments and the estimated level of public finances needed. In the light of the changed circumstances, it is appropriate to draw particular attention to its expenditure side when adopting the budget balance. The revenue side of this budget and the rebalancing is, of course, another assessment and probably also the adoption of another document. In this case, there is a fundamental reason why the balance should be adopted on the expenditure side of this budget. Thus, on the expenditure side, it is necessary to mention, for a short time only, the new legislation which has been adopted but which has not yet been provided for in the State budget. Let me list only some laws: Law on partial full-time subsidisation, Law on Mental Health, Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on kindergartens, Law on Subsidisation of Student Nutrition, Regulation on Amendments and Supplements to the Regulation on Public Financing of Higher Education and Other Institutions, Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes in culture, subsidy to market rents, financial compensation which, under the Law on Community Financing, belongs to individual municipalities, pay back the obligation to return investments to the public telecommunications network. The Act on partial full-time subsidisation provided for the eligibility of the adoption of these subsidies by 320 thousand persons for a maximum period of 6 months. At that time, we find that this law is relatively underexploited. You need to think about how to fix it, how to supplement it. The marriage has to work. The measures already taken by the Government, which are also included in the proposal for a rebalancing and are important in terms of expenditure and would like to mention them, are in particular in the field of the Ministry of Economy and affect the restructuring of enterprises, the promotion of the development of small economy, the development of tourism; in the field of the Ministry of Transport, Transport and Traffic Control; and, of course, the very important expenditure items in the field of the Ministry of Labour in the field of the Ministry of Higher Education, Scientific and Research, in particular, the programmes for the generalisation of technological development of the economy and, of course, the expenditure foreseen in the so-called balance sheet. Finally, because of different macroeconomic origins, additional resources have been and should be provided for inflation-related purposes in one way or another. Not due to new macroeconomic baselines for this year, but mainly due to higher inflation than originally envisaged in 2007 and 2008. While the proposed budget rebalancing is the biggest increase in subsidies, of course it is good if this is indeed the case. Looking at the programme structure of the budget, the funds increase most in the market, labour and working conditions. This is a well-targeted measure and, of course, we hope that there will be realisation and that sufficient resources will be available for these resources in the areas of economic, scientific and technological development and education expenditure. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, distinguished members of the Government. The global economic and financial crisis is also fully operational in Slovenia. The latest forecasts show that our economic activity is declining more than we expected. There is an increasing number of businesses and individuals who feel the crisis directly and in increasingly difficult form on their own skin, every day over and over again, every month, and more and more. Unemployment and social distress are increasing. This is a time that requires thoughtful and decisive action from economic and social policy makers. Action to support the Slovenian economy on its way from the economic crisis and congestion. The measures proposed by the Slovenian Government so far were comparable to those in the Member States of the European Union and went in the right direction. In particular, they have been geared towards reducing uncertainty in the financial sector, partially smoothing financial or credit crunches, but weak and insufficient activity remains an important problem and a challenge to re-launching the economy. We believe that the Government will also find the right answers to how to maintain the largest possible extent of business activity in the given situation, which is why it needs new measures, new ideas and a new balance. We support all measures that go and will go in this direction, in the direction of promoting investment, promoting exports, preserving and opening new jobs and at the same time in the direction of strengthening the social network. The balance we have before us is a step in this direction, which is why we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The views of the SDS Group will be presented by the mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u21	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministers and ministers! Colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about the 2009 budget rebalancing, today we are talking about a completely out-of-date document. Today we're talking about the deceased, not the newborn. He probably has a slightly darker tie for that, too. I believe that, after the publication of the data, that we will be recording in Slovenia this year minus 4% of economic growth, things have changed so dramatically that they can no longer "species" in fact any part, not in general, or in a specific part of the 2009 budget, which was created entirely in other circumstances. It is a waste of time, dear colleagues and colleagues, to discuss the details when the economic situation in Slovenia has so dramatically reached the revenue side of this budget. It is irresponsible to say where, how, how much to spend, and at the same time to rely on the document that emerged at the forecast of 7% of economic growth in 2009, and, of course, to argue this fact that things are radically different. The revenue in the budget will be significantly lower than that budget. This is according to the latest data, official data. The expenditure after this rebalancing will obviously be the same as that provided for by this rebalancing. The deficit will be substantially different from that foreseen by this balance sheet, or expenditure will not be the same as foreseen by this balance. The country's indebtedness is likely to be quite different from the laws of this package of rebalancing. So, the distinguished President of the Government, hand to heart, we are talking about things that may have been current in December when they came on the day of the announcement, when some of you were hoping to take your measures to mitigate the consequences of the economic crisis. When some others were proposing other measures and we were sure they would be taken, and now you are surprised, at least this is what comes out of all the presentations that the economic situation is worse than you anticipated. In view of the inefficiency of the action, which is not only evident to you by the opposition, you are told by all economic associations that the measures were too slow and are not yet weak and insufficient. And here I must say that you have a certain responsibility for these predictions and such a poor condition that is announced to the Slovenian economy this year. For such drastic figures as previously mentioned by fellow Member Tone Rop, for almost 7% of the decline in exports, 12% decrease in investment, 7600 unemployed in January, 8100 and some other unemployed in February. Every day in this country, we lose work between 200 and 300 people, and we blind ourselves here to share and share and share, and we don't care about the revenue side. The rebalancing is on completely wrong assumptions as to the forecast of economic growth. And, Your Honor, the President of the Government. You had time. I listened to you. On Monday, you found out what the situation would be and what the latest predictions were. On Monday, they recognised this for the first time on the Finance Committee also the Finance Minister and Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. At that time, we could cancel this meeting for a week, then we could domain that this consideration of these points would not be today, but at the end of the March session, and by then we could prepare amendments to update the balance. We would update it with the latest forecasts, so we accept something that is actually not real. And it's actually dangerous. Indeed, by the time you have prepared a new balance, which, in fact, is not yet accepted, you are already forecasting, of course, most of these budgetary users, who are recognised by such and different resources, will be speeding up their programmes and manoeuvres for some discussion on the adjustment of the expenditure side, the revenues will be lower because they will be less used. And that's why you're late/missing important opportunities. So, from today's, also your presentations, it is clear how much will be spent on this spending, with reduced revenue from the budget deficits for this year. It's not clear how much we're going to have to commit and it's not clear when we're going to pay for it or who's going to pay for it. What honourable Member Žerjav has also mentioned to invest as much as there will be a deficit and we will have to repay ourselves is an illustration of an extremely poor master. From, in fact, the surplus, the fiscal surplus, we've come into a situation where we sing everything we create, with everything we invest, and we owe ourselves. At home, when, at least I hope, beside my wife, my master, I would never afford such a way, because I do not allow it to those who come after me. Because today, with these wrong moves, we will burden future generations that will have to pay, within their current expenditure, all these debts that you owe to such a policy. The government has therefore responded too slowly and inadequately to the situation, and so are such sad forecasts for this year and for such numbers for the first two months. I must summarise that the Government has not been able to face the situation in a timely manner. And what is even worse is that it also proposes and advocates a document in Parliament that is not a reflection of the situation. Today we know that the expected economic growth is negative, minus 4%, and here we accept a document that predicts 0.6% of economic growth. Even in the situation as it is today, we are not prepared to face and deal with it properly and take action. I am therefore afraid that all the coming measures of the crisis will only deepen. And that, as you said, we will be together on this ship - we will be together on the submarine and we are already on the submarine. We're underwater, and I hope we're still holding our breath, so that through some straws we can breathe air into our lungs and into our blood and into our lives. As the first key point of the Slovenian Democratic Party to this document and consequently to all details and amendments. The other thing is, of course, that this document does not express or highlight any priorities, virtually no priorities. You're the one who called it the anti-crisis rebalancing. It's not. If there was an anti-crisis balance, most of the budget expenditure would also be focused on addressing crisis situations, but it does not. I believe that, according to my assessment, the only priority that should follow through this balance, the real face-to-face of the crisis, the measures to mitigate this crisis. And now we are dealing with these measures. Representatives of the coalition and you yourself have mentioned some of the measures proposed by the Government, the coalition has taken and you say they are going in the right direction. I only know a few of these, and in fact, most of them have proposed and assisted in their acceptance by the opposition. The first concrete law that has been passed, thank God, is the Banking Act, by which we have actually taken over guarantees of the role of citizens and thereby prevented panic. We did this together, and it's the right thing to do. We have also done something together in the field of tax relief. We could do a lot together, but we can't. The offer of the Partnership for Development, the offer of the opposition's participation in such difficult times as the beginning and now full of economic, financial and value crises and crises of all, and the demand, which is even more worrying, is ideal for us to strain our species. You have rejected our hand, not you personally, Prime Minister, rejected by those hawks within your coalition who believe they are all-powerful, all-knowing and do not need the opposition in the crisis. I do not think that this is a smart policy and we are partially faced with the consequences today. The main measures proposed by the opposition were direct measures aimed at decommissioning the economy in tax terms, which would apply to all economic operators and towards the reduction of payment deadlines and the release of credit crunches through guarantees, guarantees and similar measures. We have also proposed direct measures in terms of a "new deal" in Slovenia through huge projects, around which we should immediately shrink and concentrate our powers, such as the continuation and completion of the previous highway cross, other road state infrastructures, railways, information infrastructures, energy infrastructures. I did not see that the country would adopt one State Spatial Plan at that time in order to move any of these important projects seriously. Instead, we have always and again meetings and commissions that we deal with in the past. The main measure that you have proposed, however, is to subsidise full-time work or a measure that promotes work. Other measures are those which will provide compensation to the unemployed. That is why I do not think it is too late to go and see what else can be done for this in Slovenia. And once again, I find it unacceptable to me the logic and policy of refusing cooperation and partnership with the opposition. This leads us where we are, and does not bring some good promises forward. Moreover, all these proposals proposed by the opposition to mitigate the consequences have been called a black hole in your opening act, Prime Minister-respected. The black hole is what you did with the money to subsidize full-time. A lot of money will go into this measure, but it will move the problem for six months and nothing more. The economic operator currently facing about 40, 50% reduction in contracts will not survive six months of full-time subsidisation. He won't, because he can't. Because it's a small thing compared to his problems. And that's why there's gonna be a lot of money going on here, and the problem will move and stay. And it will have to be solved again by public means, despite the fact that we have already lost them and despite the fact that the problem is greater. That's why I think it's a bottomless bag. Tax incentives for investment, however, are a targeted measure to encourage investment by those who can invest and, of course, also have development programmes and projects for this. Of course, that did not happen, and even this bottomless hole was called. A measure that has not been implemented at all has been commented on as inappropriate, and on the other hand, we have such drastic negative figures and we support or are good at it, as the proposaler comments. Once again, we're talking about a completely up-to-date matter. Unfortunately, today I will also take the words of the radio announcer: "Sorry for the inefficiency of the government is the situation in the Republic of Slovenia, an economic situation like the weather in Iceland. It's bad, if you wait 10 minutes, but it's even worse."
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u23	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear ministers, representatives of the government! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, the Parliamentary Group will support the 2009 proposal for a budget rebalancing. We believe that, given the changed economic situation, it is certainly necessary and better than the existing budget in force for 2009, since it was designed in 2007, when the situation was significantly different than it is at this point. The government has drawn up a proposal for the 2009 budget rebalancing mainly due to the changed economic situation and the provision of money for the implementation of crisis mitigation measures. However, it is also due to the under-planned or not-planned means of ensuring the full range of legal obligations that the previous Government has undertaken before the elections. Due to the critical economic situation, but also to the poor planning of the previous government, the revenues of the adopted State budget for 2009 will fall by around €200 million and the state budget will increase by around €800 million. The State budget will create a much higher deficit after the planned rebalancing than in the adopted budget. This will increase to 1.1 billion euros or 2.9% of the projected gross social product. The expenditure of the State budget increases to the greatest extent the measures taken to revive economic activity and, in part, the legal obligations adopted in 2008 and the revised coordination mechanisms. The maximum deviations are foreseen for the expenditure on subsidies, the promotion of the development of the small economy and the increase of funds for technological development and research. There will also be a strong increase in the expenditure on salaries in public authorities and public institutions due to the agreed harmonisation of salaries under the Public Sector Wages Act in 2008. The economic situation is becoming increasingly difficult, and it is becoming increasingly clear that Slovenia, because of the empty cash register left by the previous government, has entered a period of crisis rather unprepared. The government of Janez Janša did not save, nor did it save. Moreover, it encouraged debt and unreasonable investments. They have spent a great deal of money on non-economic investments, on redesigned tunnels where the obstacle is eliminated, the unreasonablely long and overpaid construction of hospitals, the senseless and wasteful, and without public calls, the renovations of government premises and the still unexplained and controversial purchases of military equipment and patriots, and even for projects of economic centres such as the Beach Phoenix, which today appear to have been completely missed, followed only by the political, pre-electoral purposes of individual policies and the provision of a job for party and friendly ties. Finally, inadvertently, the high prizes of supervisory boards and administrations in state-owned enterprises are the legacy of the former government. Despite the mistakes made by the previous government, there are also many economic analysts and economists. For example, Velimir Bole, from the Economic Institute of the Faculty of Law, analyzes the economic achievements of the government in the first year of the euro and the findings side by side into three key findings. First time. In a time of favourable economic conditions, when the State could repay public debt, the State had further committed itself and the public debt was covered by the issue of bonds abroad. Another time. Certain taxes were abolished or amended at an entirely incorrect time. And the third time. The case of State expenditure. The country should first reduce consumption and then lower taxes. As state spending has increased, the state budget has landed at zero at the time of the most favourable economic situation, rather than creating large surpluses that would still be good for us at the time of the economic crisis. Let me mention two other important and expensive decisions by the government of Janez Janša, the consequences of which are taking place deeply during the current crisis. By the time the first signs of the crisis appeared and some Members, including current Minister Matej Lahovnik, had pointed out the impending problems, then the Minister of Public Administration, Gregor Virant, had realised an increase in public sector wages. This measure costs the country an additional EUR 30 million per month. Moreover, at the time, as Minister, he also left control over the implementation of salary reform and, as a result, there have been severe anomalies in transferring state employees to wage classes, as many have taken advantage of the salary reform for illegal progress, which will cost us an additional EUR 51 million, according to the latest data. The findings of the UMAR show that Slovenia was already in recession at the time the collective agreement entered into force. And the former Minister Virant's claim that he has brought about reforms in favourable conditions and times is simply not true. During last year, the UMAR objected to the course of negotiations, and this has also been constantly pointed out to the Government. Since January 2008, it has been pointed out that government proposals have crossed the edge of fiscal sustainability and that wage growth differences in the private and public sectors will be too large and they do not agree with the proposal. Similarly, at the end of May 2008 UMAR did not agree with the government proposal that the elimination of wage imbalances in 2008, 2010 would be the result of the then forecast of €397 million. The government then signed, despite unequivocal warnings, that proposal, after which the funds required for these measures were jointly assessed, EUR 450 million, which means that the funds were already higher than the amounts that were not acceptable for the UAR in any case at the time of high economic growth. Of course, the final number of this measure, the increase in public sector wages, will be significantly higher. Although the introduction of cute and popular vignettes is without taking into account the financial analysis of court swords. Thus, with such a huge commitment to the construction of the motorway programme, there will be an additional 27 million euros a year. In addition, financing for the construction of motorways by European Cohesion Funds has been suspended. Interestingly, the previous government decided to introduce vignettes without analysis. In the archives of the Ministry of Transport, only one survey, namely a public opinion survey, was observed on vinjetes. What a profound impact such research has had on the government of John Janša, and there are also a number of other measures taken that have primarily had pre-electional effects. Among other things, these are laws adopted at the time of the end of the Janša government's mandate and have incurred expenditure which was not foreseen at all by the adoption of the 2009 budget. Today, however, at a time of crisis, the state budget is heavily burdened and will continue in the future. The budget balance shall ensure the smooth implementation of all legal obligations. It was therefore necessary to find and provide an additional EUR 833 million. A large proportion of additional solutions are also needed because of new rights such as free protection for another child and the subsidisation of the student diet. While these are commendable rights, the question is whether they are the most meaningful and priority in the current situation. But what it is, it is. There's no going back, and now we're paying for questions from the former government. The latest estimates of economic trends are poor. It's like a real comment. Today's topic on the front page of the Officer's Work, I quote: "The fall in gross product at 4% of the year, 100,000 unemployed, almost 9% of the year's decline in exports and 5% of the budget deficits are the falls that Slovenia has never experienced before, even at the loss of markets at the time of independence." This is where the debate will take place today. In view of the current discussions, we can say, above all, in the direction of who is to blame. And in any way, it will appear that these alarming data are mainly the fault of inadequate and untimely measures. In my presentation of the opinion, I have indicated that there are many things that the previous government has done that have a profound impact both on the budget and on how we entered the time of crisis. The former government has not left funds that a reasonable farmer, when it is a rich crop, saves for the time when the "dry cows" period comes. We got an empty cash register. Moreover, we have received a whole series of legal obligations, for which there was neither in the register nor in the tolar and which had to be found by the new government. In view of the economic financial situation in which we are and for which there is no miracle medicine and which we must deal actively and quickly with and take action, we believe that the balance of the budget in this form at this time is adequately marked, which is why, on behalf of the Zares Group of Members, I express my support. However, in view of recent economic forecasts and given the carelessness of the previous government, there is likely to be an almost certain need for a budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u24	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the individual parts of the State budget's proposal for a rebalancing, and we will consider as individual parts of the budget a general part of the Draft Budget Balance, a specific part of the Draft Budget Balance and the Development Programmes Plan. We are therefore moving on to the general part of the draft budget rebalancing proposal. Does anyone want a word? Please, let's sign up. Thank you very much. The first one has the word mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u25	Good-bye to all of you. I must say, it was most pleasant in the speech we had just heard that the revival was that old tradition of socialist or Stalinist self-criticism. The lady, who, for everything that is wrong in the country, blamed the previous government, then concluded wisely that in fact she would be most devoted today to throwing the blame on someone else. I must say, this is a very lucid conclusion worthy of what he said. However, after this discussion, I can easily understand where the maximum I have detected on the Internet, as well as the towers in the U.S. Congress, is that when a leftist speaks, he cheats or is knowingly lying. Yesterday's and today's debate, respected colleagues from the transition left, actually has one point in common. It's a hoax. Yesterday, on behalf of freedom of speech, you prohibited Members from talking about the official document of the Government of the Republic of Serbia relating to Slovenia. I have to say, it's very interesting, and a man would smile in tears if it weren't for a very serious matter. Today you yourself find that you managed to get the country out of record plus 7% growth of social gross product during the time of the government of Janez Janša to a catastrophic fall minus 4%, and there you say through your teeth that it is not necessary that this is already a complete fall because it may be even bigger. And at the same time, you're hoping to criticize the previous government. I must say that certainly the puff is indeed one of the chief sins, but the microphone is fortunately still carrying everything, including your words. What was the stupidest words spoken, which are also important in relation to the act that we are taking today, is just a few comments. In the last part of the government, Mr Janez Janša was a surplus in the budget, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, to say that the legacy was a minus or worse than the one previously claimed by the Lady of Zares is a simple fat lie. This is the first thing to say very clearly. The second thing I would remind you of is that a year ago -- because now we're getting to the point -- you said, is that the Prime Minister spoke about a common ship before. Yeah. This joint ship would be happy to help us, and we also helped, which I have argued, but as it was a year ago, I would like to remind you. In this Chamber there was a debate in which you all on the side of the transition left shouted that the biggest problem we will face for a long time is, I quote, "for a long, long time," inflation. And that is when I pointed out that inflation will soon die and that the biggest problem we will face will be the issue of stagnation, stagnation and deflation. It doesn't have to be a genius to see it, because the financial crisis had actually been present in the world system for months at the time. Already in mid-2007, giant injections were worth more than €100 million to the US and European central banks. You've all shut up. And at that time, Janez Janša's government, which you hope to criticise at the negative 4 catastrophic decline in economic growth, reached 7.2% of economic growth in that year, which is a record for Slovenia's independence. So much for you, or not knowing or conspiring when it comes to business. And now I come to another key word - arrogant. How is it possible that the measures taken by the government of Janez Janša in time to be adopted before the new year entered into force with the new year, in the vast majority of the years, you did a little bit of rejection, especially of the key, this would be a reduction of the value added tax, and some of them were then adopted with compressed teeth, but that you have essentially disfigured them and you have either postponed or restricted their effect. With this you have shown your immatureness or arrogance that you did it because of your political prestige, or because you actually believed that you would not have to face these things today. And that is why when you talk about the economic crisis, ladies and gentlemen, you have made a key contribution to deepening the economic crisis yourself, either out of economic ignorance or out of arrogance. It is your fault that you rejected that package of measures that were prepared last fall that today's proposal for a rebalancing is very restrictive and at the same time very likely does not represent the last step in this direction, and you recognise it yourself. And because you rejected those measures and because now the partnership we have offered you would normally be the opposite of offering it to the one in power. So don't talk about the ship. You just decided to row only with the left oars. And anyone who's ever rowed knows that that boat starts spinning around in circles and doesn't come anywhere else. Now that's the result you're facing. At the same time, there's only one thing I'd like to ask. When it comes to action, be at least that honest with people and yourself, after all, to tell you who really did something. As the only measure that you yourself, specifically the Minister of Finance, presented that it was already in force and that it was successful, you cited the abolition of the tax on paid salaries. I agree, this is the only really good measure at this point in time towards decommissioning the economy. But, ladies and gentlemen, this measure was adopted by the Government of Janez Janša two years ago and is now only because it has been gradually implemented, so as not to cause problems in public finances, it has come into force definitively. That's the way it is with this thing. The second part of this story, where I must say that I believe it is at the back of the whole debate, is the immeasurable intimidation, which in fact stems from your words about what disaster awaits Slovenia and at the same time pointing fingers at those who have previously been incomparably more successful, but you hope that people have already forgotten about it. Why all the intimidation? This is actually not productive at the time of the economic crisis. This is not productive for you, either, because you intimidate people with this, and by doing so you block people from spending, causing and exacerbating the crisis. With your intimidation, you, in addition to arrogantly rejecting the proposed measures by our government, are exacerbating the crisis yourself. I wonder why you're doing this. I'm not quite sure, you know, if your assessment is not such that you silently expect that this Slovenian economy is so good and vital that it will survive this also your snitching, all too late and insufficient measures, and that you expect that over a period of time, however, it will go better, that it will not actually be so bad and that you will then use your negative forecasts as one starting point to prove how something has worked out that it is not as bad as it could actually be. But once again, such intimidation, which is excessive, only causes further deepening of the crisis. For there has not really been so much increase in unemployment. It's growing during your period, and it's going to grow. In reality, the fall has not been as great as the terrible decline in public consumption. What we would need in the country is that the country, as a state in the field of public finances, is saving and at the same time encouraging the consumption of the widest range of its inhabitants. And these measures, which the majority of the other countries of the European Union are implementing, are not, at all, to be observed by you. The only thing you do is issue decisions to the so-called deleted, and if you're talking about a joint ship, I don't know what role this will play on this ship. The role of anchor? Therefore, this balance can be considered an act that is prepared on the basis of some expectations. The question is, is he enough? It is certainly not accompanied by the appropriate measures to be taken towards decommissioning the economy, and therefore it is realistic to expect that the trend that characterises the first months of your reign will continue. But blame or responsibility, for in the end it is a responsibility to people, just take over. The intimidation you are implementing, the rejection of measures that have been prepared in a timely and qualitative manner by the previous government, has led to a deepening of this crisis. And I'm still sure that from such a good starting point as we had before, those plus 7 and then also plus 6 in the last year of economic growth, it didn't have to go down to minus 4, it didn't have to go down. If you had taken those measures that were ready in time and rejected them arrogantly, I am sure there would have been no such great fall. And not then point at us with your finger, ladies and gentlemen. You've got the majority, you've rejected it, you've caused the crisis to get so deep. And this balance, unfortunately, does not represent a measure that would somehow fix it. In a way, it's just a reflection of the situation from the time you were preparing this rebalancing. What can be expected in the coming period? Personally, I must say that I do not see any action at this time, at least it is not announced, which would be a real burden on the economy. The measures you are forecasting, such as an increase in legal tariffs by amending the law that will release these tariffs, then issuing decisions to the so-called deleted ones, which will, of course, go back to the costs of taxpayers, and then judicial proceedings, because there is no law to regulate it because you reject the constitutional law. This will only further irritate the country and at the same time exacerbate the crisis. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, it would be time for your sobriety. All that - when you went to the elections and talked about how Slovenia can lead better - will have to be proved! For once, unfortunately, only the truth of what your minister, in charge of the economy, said when he said, was talking about you, about the time of your government: "Everything that could have gone wrong so far has gone wrong." Ladies and gentlemen, Slovenia deserves something completely different. Slovenia deserves good government and rapid development.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I would ask, if possible and as far as possible, to stick to the proposal for a debate on the general part of the budget balance. We have all received a budget, but it covers the revenue and expenditure of the budget. However, I say ahead of time that no matter what, I will not interrupt the debate, because anyone will be able to say that the identification of the past, the future or the forecasting of the cards is a possible component of this debate. I would ask, however, to the extent that we can only follow the direction we have with regard to the debate on the budget. Mr. Lucky Friend has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. At first glance, when we listen to both the President of the Government and the representatives of government parties, as they advocate a budget rebalancing, we can say that the Government is not fully coordinated. That somehow ministers do something different than the Prime Minister himself, that there is not enough discipline and even the right command, at least the one who looks from the outside at the matter has that feeling. Let me tell you why I think so. While unemployment is rising in Slovenia and the social crisis of individuals is deepening, and the actual existence is also threatened for those who work full-time and cannot live normally through the month, on the other hand, we have a completely incomprehensible absurdity that the directors of state-owned enterprises, i.e. enterprises that are majority-owned, receive several times the salary of the president of the country or the President of the Government or the Minister. I also consider the directors of public institutions to be the set of these privileges. And these measures that we are taking here today will not alleviate the crisis. We can also save Members, and the President of the Government can save money by paying the representative himself, but if we don't make the order here, these directors, as is happening today, will still be paying themselves the prizes for unquality work. And that's what you get to see when you open, for example, the newspaper of Finance or some other newspaper. They even move arrogantly at the invitation of the Government, which is the majority owner of the company, that they did not understand the appeal or even the actual demands of the President of the Government. They're ignoring the Prime Minister. The last case was when it was decided whether companies would pay their 13th salary before the new year. The President of the Government claimed that this would not happen, but on the other hand we had a company and a director in a company that laughed, despite being explicitly asked not to do so; because he was the director of the company in the majority ownership of the country, he did so. You will find it difficult to tell workers that the ten thousandth of a month must be reported at the Employment Service, which is the number. And it will be difficult for you to tell them that they must tighten the belt and be obedient, cost-effective further, but if in the Republic of Slovenia we have the opportunity to face such facts as I now state. You will also find it difficult to convince students that we are a knowledge-based society, but if you take as many as 6 million for their scholarships as has been recorded in previous budgets, even though you wrote in the coalition contract that budgets will be balanced and at least as they were previous, so budgets of the year. What interest there is in the budget rebalancing today in the National Assembly also shows this picture of those present in the National Assembly. When the rapporteurs exchanged views, i.e. representatives of political parties, both government representatives and MPs probably went to lunch, the President went to his coffee which he had brought to 'thermals', and we will probably be here for a while, and then we can count on the fingers of one hand as many of us as we have left. Why am I so critical? The economy, railways, agriculture and education have experienced many cuts. And it's not true that we've evolved into this rebalancing. It is not true that this will help alleviate the coming crisis. If we know that we have already two years of accepted guarantee guarantees for a thorough reconstruction of Slovenian railways that go beyond the almost complete motorway programme, it is not clear in financial terms that this government has not taken the first steps to release and start working on a thorough reconstruction of the railway system. We also note that state roads are in ruins and that this winter alone has caused some tens of millions of damage this year more than the previous winter on state roads that have already been destroyed in one way or another. Nor in this area have we put things in a context that could alleviate the rise in unemployment. We also find for agriculture that we do not have enough money to pay subsidies. All of these measures can help in the self-employment of individuals, as for agriculture we can say that we are very weak in the use of European funds and that it is in this area that people can self-employed and can support families as they do with the development of tourism. Here, too, we see a decline because state bureaucracy, the country has not done what it should have done. It has not applied for tenders available within the European Union funds. You claim that some municipalities are financially balanced. And that's not a solution, my respectable colleagues! We in the Slovenian National Party have proposed that municipalities should reach the level of self-financing. And in a way that's simple. Let's get the farm fund to shut down, and let's put the land the country has at its disposal under the jurisdiction of the municipalities. And municipalities will have a source of income, as well as a long-term planning of the possibilities of borrowing and planning in a growing budget better than today. Today, I do not know, the villages have become congregations in the past, and the local communities are also on the full burden of the country. And this is reflected in the need for financial compensation for these congregations. The number of Slovenian municipalities just prior to bankruptcy was reported in the public information media the day before yesterday. And the Secretary of State, who is here today, from the Ministry of Finance has made it clear that the state cannot solve these financial complications in the municipalities. This is a way to solve problems in the congregation, one way or another, but of course a step needs to be taken. The state must give up what it thinks only it can have, and these are agricultural land. These lands should be owned by the congregations. We have given municipalities the opportunity to expand the borders of the wall areas themselves, but we do not give them the opportunity to have real estate within the boundaries of individual municipalities. However, we are prepared to fund the municipalities of the state budget indefinitely so that they will not be in a worse position than they are. Of course, I'm very sad that we're taking education too. Our amendment speaks of the fact that, at least in terms of views and criteria, they should be the same as in recent years. We demand not only for millions and half of euros more on this item, but for those funds that have been taken unjustifiably, that is six million and something on the education agenda and that they be allocated back to the same extent as in previous budgets. No increase factor. It is not necessary to take into account the factor, the increase in retail prices, or to coordinate this, but to give at least as much as it has been in previous years. If you look at budget item 1.9.0.6 you took 6 million 900 for scholarships. You ask students to be sustainable, you ask workers to be obedient, and you yourself cause new injustices, and you take what is meant to be theirs. As has already been said, I myself will defend what the Slovenian National Party's Group has written in its two amendments. I expect the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to respond to the lack of money in the agricultural field for education, and I also expect clear answers from the rebalancing proponents about how we will meet the missing gap in transport policy. Especially in terms of roads and railways. If we don't do this, then it won't be 4%, as was said today, but you can count another two-digit number.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Verlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u29	Thank you very much. At that time, when the candidates for ministers presented themselves in their performances, the candidate for the minister, today the Minister of Finance, stressed the importance of transport infrastructure in the development component of planning, in particular during the economic crisis. Both the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Environment and Space have also confirmed this. And at that time, of course, we also in the Slovenian Democratic Party were convinced that this would in fact be a developmental shift and we looked forward to a budget rebalancing, which would also accelerate this transport infrastructure development component as one of the drivers of general economic development during a tense economic crisis. I really expected that the budget rebalancing in this direction would also give me a pleasant surprise. It is said that we will put an important development component in the balance of the budget, brought by transport infrastructure. However, on the Transport Committee, when we reviewed the budget, of course, the findings and the disappointment that, in fact, the Minister of Transport received less money in the budget follow. Instead of making the budget thickened for projects that are undoubtedly a catalyst for economic development, we are faced with the first disappointment, it is the first conclusion that there is less funding. The Ministry of Transport therefore failed. There is less funding for the state road network, European funds have fallen considerably. We have been clarified that this is due to the more detailed planning of the European funds planned in the previous mandate for railway infrastructure projects and that they have now gone to a more realistic level. Okay. This would even be accepted to some extent, but then, of course, another story appears immediately at the Ministry of Environment and Space. If the reason for the documentation being too poorly planned, then of course I expected that in the part of the budget that talks about putting routes into the space and the necessary resources of the Ministry of the Environment and Space so that these roads can be placed in the space, it is said that we will get the appropriate location plans to ensure that this money at the Ministry of Environment and Space that these funds will be provided for development, for that first step, if there is no documentation that the Ministry will need funds. But again, disappointment. There are no or smaller means of obtaining documentation in the budget. Now, of course, things don't go together somehow. And I wonder, really, how will this component be made through this budget rebalancing, that if European funds are reduced, because there should be no documentation, how is it, then in another sector, which will now have the opportunity to spend more resources, at least to get to the documentation - even there, these resources are lower. There are important spatial plans for the installation of the rail infrastructure fence, namely our transport cross Divača-Koper, Trst-Divača, Divaca-Ljubljana, Ljubljana-Zidani Bridge, Zidani bridge-Dobova, Zidani bridge-Celje. These are all spatial plans that could be made more quickly for more money in the balance sheet, more money in the Ministry of Environment and Space. The Minister for Environment and Space, unfortunately not now, replied to the Committee that this would happen in 2010. What about in 2009? I cannot accept that this balance of the budget for transport infrastructure is development-oriented. I'm sorry, it's not! It's just that tracking what was already done in the previous government. In that part where we could now dig up as a country and make a big move, it's gone. It was moved to 2010. Instead of making sure, in this part, that the development axes, not only the railways, but also the others, the roadways, are placed in the space to be kept in this budget, this is not the case. I must say that, while the State Secretary was pleased on the Committee on Transport, there were at least so many funds. I say, at least once again, we would need so much money to achieve this developmental part that we can achieve in the budget through the construction of transport infrastructure, and we could also use it usefully to achieve better results. As a result, there is little disappointment and regret that, within the framework of the Government, the Minister of Transport has failed to obtain more money in this work, so that this development work, which is being introduced into the country, can be carried out. That's too bad. If this moves to 2010, believe me that we will get the first spatial plans after 2012, so that I do not say when we will then be able to modernise this substandard railway infrastructure. I am talking about how it seems to me that it is a shame that we have already missed a year with such a budget rebalancing in this part. However, I cannot go beyond the position of the Group of Ambassadors, indeed, as regards the past and the vineyards. I think that guilt as a measure, if the balance of the budget were to be covered in that broader sense, not only in the pure sense of Darsa's financial sustainability, has shown benefits earlier. It is interesting, however, that the Member representing the position comes from the area of Domžal, where they went to the barricades when it was said that a toll station would be built on Krtina. At that time, they demanded that the toll station not be built. And it's a shame to talk because it's just a little bit of a ruse. All citizens like to drive without stopping at toll stations. And it's a shame that there's no means in this rebalancing to bring them down as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear ministers, ministers and, of course, co-workers of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The budget, or the balance of the budget, is certainly one of the most important documents of the country, and I am surprised that there is so little relation to this document, especially of the coalition Members, that in the debate of this document, all coalition members are twice as few as members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I think he can say anything. [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u32	I'd like to ask you not to open a controversy about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u33	That is why I also wonder about the usefulness of this debate. If a well-intentioned proposal is taken into account from the opposition's debate, I believe that there have been many of them and that the debates that follow will also achieve some purpose of this debate. Otherwise, it is likely that all of this will be after needless waste of time, for today 14 hours are allocated to this point. Therefore, with all due respect for the professional colleagues, the co-workers who prepared this budget, both in the ministries and of course in the Government, that this extensive document has been prepared, which is demanding, but today we can all find together that this document, unfortunately, can be a bedtime story. Together, we note that the items, especially on the revenue side, are far below those that will be able to be realised, so it is likely that it will be necessary to prepare a new proposal, which is likely to be more realistic on the revenue side as well. However, I cannot go beyond touching the debates in particular when they represented the views of the parliamentary groups when they tried to bring this situation back to the previous government. The eyes that were here are more than funny. It has been reported that public spending has increased in the previous term, but we all know that for the first time in history it has decreased in order to reduce public administration employment, in all previous mandates the number of employees has increased from one mandate to another, and in the previous term it has decreased for the first time. It was said that, in the previous term, the Government had adopted a number of missing projects. I don't know any, and probably not a coalition, so they're obvious without some concrete arguments. Many projects that have started will benefit when they are completed. However, those who have finished can benefit from it today, even the Štuvian tunnel, which was obvious, by not starting with the previous government, but by finishing it. It is also apparent that investments have been missed or long-term investments in hospital infrastructure. Oncological Institute was built for 14 years, completed in the mandate of the government of Janez Janša. Reports of crediting highways, a way of building highways adopted by the previous government. What arguments were presented?Oh, my God! Obviously, those who discuss these matters don't know things at all. He doesn't even know what the cost of the opportunities that our country has or has had because of the lack of motorways. If we had motorways in Slovenia ten years ago or even more, how much faster the economy would develop, how much less centralisation in Slovenia, and in particular how much less fatal accidents. From New Town, where I come from, the economy, the biggest parade horses, not only regions, Slovenia, beg all the time "so let us finish the highway". It's a key condition, a key expectation. How many fatalities have there been in the previous term and even now?Oh, my God! And to say that lending the construction of highways is the reason for a situation like this today, I think it is unjustifiable and also malicious. Also about vinjets that vinjets were a populism measure. For who? Certainly not for the previous government. Perhaps, however, for Mrs Zalokar, I hope that she will listen to me when she could drive free of charge all the time, but the Dolenjeks were paying for the motorways, opposed the vignettes. I would, too, if I could drive for free. She opposed the award of concessions, but she herself is the mayor who awarded the most concessions in Slovenia. And this is really a new policy. Apparently, the previous government, or government, of Janez Janša, denied the recession or said it was not. That's not true, either. The expiry of the previous government made it clear that in Slovenia all the negative effects that were very present in America, Europe, have not yet come to Slovenia. And they weren't actually there. At that time, however, it was a warning that if we do not act, these effects will also come to Slovenia. And today we are witnessing it. Why? Because it didn't act. As I mentioned earlier, I'm more interested in looking forward, not back. But I had to replicate the unjustifiable, demagogic criticisms that have been made today, but I really want to look further. And now specifically on this budget balance, what can we say? It is right to try to save in many areas, including the Government's gesture is a step in the right direction, but if, on the other hand, some members of the Government act the exact opposite, that effect will be eliminated. The Ministry of Defence was the target of the largest reduction in funds. Clearly, the Minister has accepted this matter with understanding because she is aware of the situation. On the other hand, Mr Cvikl, Secretary-General of the Government, who was the most critical of good solutions in the previous term, has increased him by almost 10% on his positions. I believe that this item could be an example of lowering it, not increasing it by such an amount. But, look, just saving, that won't be enough, because it's impossible to save forever. I believe that we will have to - in particular you will have to in coalition, but you can trust us to offer you a hand here in the Slovenian Democratic Party and also support - to rewind probably a number of solutions for the granting of social transfers, because today they are certainly received by some who are not entitled to them and go to many millions of euros into the hands of those who do not need them. Here we will have to look for solutions that will relieve the spending side. And there's a lot of money to be saved. But I'm worried about the revenue side. The revenue side is full of the economy. And here you, especially the government, as well as the coalition, have been missing for almost six months. It's important here every day. And the previous Government, which was aware that difficult times were coming to Slovenia, had drawn up a number of laws that had responded to situations that had undoubtedly moved to Slovenia from day to day. But you didn't believe it, whether you didn't want to believe it or you didn't know how to listen to it, but the effects are visible today. The forecast of a 4% decline in economic growth, which will be negative, is frightening. However, I am sure that the wagon that now goes steeply down will not come to any positive zero, but that, like the President of the Government or the Minister of Finance, we will be able to be optimistic about the possibility of better times in the coming year. We all want them, but I'm afraid they won't be here. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been offering you, as an opposition, well-intentioned laws that you have not adopted. We have warned that the economy, which has welcomed such laws, has also assessed them as a contribution to what will help them to restructure production into products that will be able to sell and also pay. Because many of the industries that are currently in recession and are being produced by our entrepreneurs or businesses will also be sorry in the future. It is therefore necessary to shift to markets and, above all, to products that will have a perspective, but this is a matter of government action, legislation. The only law, however, I have mentioned this several times in the debate, which somehow now attempts to represent the Government is to subsidise working time. We all know that this law has no effect. From the opposition, we already told you with great certainty that there will be no effects, this is what we are showing today. This law is an opportunity that some abuse has no other effect. The unions opposed it, the employers opposed it. The Council of State has already introduced a law procedure that would correct some bad solutions. But those laws that we have proposed would certainly have effects, and I can ensure that if the government of Janez Janša were to lead Slovenia in this mandate, those laws would have been passed in November of last year and would have been effective today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u34	Mr. Grill, don't mind me, but I haven't noticed a single sentence saying so far that would be linked to the budget's rebalancing. Let's focus a little on the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u35	I have said quite a few such specifics, and I can continue to do so. That it is unacceptable to reduce funds, in this balance, to build hospital infrastructure. 14 million euros, that's a lot of money, that's at least one hospital, is expected not to be built next year. Student homes, we know what the problems with staying our students are, 10% of them are going down. That is why, however, I personally, even if I support or do not support it, I know or know everyone, it will have no effect in fact, because in the short term you will have to prepare a new one, and then I hope that there will be a lot of opportunities to discuss it in more concrete terms, because now it is not possible to expect anything to happen, even though it is part of the coalition - in particular I have here in mind by the Committee on Finance, which has supported a number of amendments of opposition parties that have proposed solutions to reduce spending, and the Government, as we see now, rejects them. So obviously the government and the coalition are not in line and I am very pleased with what will be the course of the vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you so much for saying that. Procedural first. I propose that you allow all Members and Members of Parliament to discuss this at the same level. Some Members have also addressed the previous mandate in the positions of the parliamentary groups in 2006-2007 and we have a 2009 balance. And if those Members were able to talk about the approach to the balance in this way, then I suggest that you also allow Members who are not from those options that can allow themselves to talk about everything they imagine in this National Assembly. The other thing is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thin, I promise I'll let you discuss this, because I already know that you will be discussing things that are not related to the balance. But you won't be the only one, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u39	Thank you so much for your kindness. The second thing that I think is very important here is the concept of this rebalancing. Here I wonder how to approach this project at all, this act, if the Government has already stated in advance that the foundations on which this balance is based do not hold. That it does not hold economic growth and that it certainly does not hold data on the public financial deficit. Yesterday we listened to a finance minister who said that there would be a public deficit, that is to say a minus on this balance, definitely 4%, at least 4%, and probably very close to 5%. And that the government will only take steps like other European countries. I am interested in the credibility of the Government's approach to this important or most important annual act. To propose to the Members something that she is confident of and herself tells them that they do not hold the starting point. And now, I'm just asking the government what it expects the opposition Members to do in this act, if they tell their own, our own and Slovenian public in advance, that it is something that is fiction. Something that's "fatamic." The other thing that really bothers me about this rebalancing is that there are very few direct measures in it, those that solve matters, situations and very or very much more who are indirect, which are linked to some calls and some other procedures. And the third thing that's very visible is blackness, or I'd say neoptimism, which the government declares, also by saying that when it's taking action, it's probably not going to be that kind of action, but something worse is probably going to happen in the meantime. Is this fear of humans necessary primarily because of the background of stories, as I once said, in the - ultra-infra - area. I don't think that's necessary. Regarding credibility, I would respond to the opening debate by the Prime Minister, who also called on members of the opposition to look at our side to row with the government in the same boat. I ask how this is possible to invite us to this rowing in a joint boat if, after the rebalancing and after the amendments we tabled on 19-20 March, none of the government structures and none of the coalition invited us to any discussion. We have tabled amendments, we have tabled proposals for solutions that we think are appropriate, and no one, not government officials, not the government, not the minister, not the coalition, has invited us to talk. Even more, all the amendments proposed by the opposition were rejected on the home body and to all the amendments, if you look at the review that we have proposed, the government has identified itself as negative. Then how do you propose to someone you generally refuse on the whole line to row with you on the same boat in the same direction? We have proposed adjustments that we believe are necessary. We have proposed corrections that address some of the shortcomings, but there has been no discussion and what is worse is the general rejection of one. And as a fellow Member said we're not in the boat anymore, we're probably already on the submarine, but this submarine is red. Even according to the information you submitted. We can ask ourselves what this package of measures is actually bringing to the balance sheet. In the background of all these reflections are the words of the Prime Minister of the Government when he spoke of the need to modernise the systems. What does this modernisation mean? What does modernisation of the pension system mean? What does modernisation mean, say, scholarship schemes, scholarship policies? What does it mean to modernise measures for the elderly? What does modernisation of measures, for example, in the field of diaphragm mean? If we have listened to the debate today, modernisation means only shortening, reducing rights. This means actually modernising systems. And I think it's very unfair for government representatives to be under this password, under this footnote, to allow themselves not to say what is meant to be followed, and which will result, perhaps, in the situation, and above all inaction. I think the government side here should be very clear. And I don't think it's acceptable for us to listen here just to the version, just to say the word. It is necessary if you have undertaken this project, if you have taken the lead of the government, to actually take the measures that stand and that will actually bring something. This is how we listened to the debates here, as I said, which are related only to history. Perhaps those who presented such views were historians, and the debate was to be understood in that way, and that is probably true in fact. When we talk about austerity measures, I can then find that the only real austerity measures have been taken in history in 2006. At that time, the economy was burdened, individual taxpayers were burdened; the number of measures was around €1.2 billion, 15% of the budget. Those funds at the time provided a serious impetus for development and also a basis for advance development. In fact, it is on the basis of all that we have further proposed, and what you have with great difficulty and with great impressions adopted, or even later yourself, because you initially rejected and then proposed, instead of once doing so, two partial measures, you have somehow settled these matters, and it remains in fact only one important law to regulate, this is payment, VAT refund, reduction, if I say at home, of the deadlines both for payments, those payments where the contracting State as well as the part relating to returns, the resources that the economy has earned, and because you do not support VAT laws, it will also not get in time. And what's worse, in the budget, in the balance sheet is an item that we know for sure will not be realized, it's a full-time subsidy. It's basically "kaselc", a dead cause that will be realized 20%, 30%. 150 million euros on this item will not be activated and instead, instead of these 150 million blocked funds, which will only be on the item and then the Government would say, so allocate, devote or cover what is a refund, early VAT refund. No, we will let this measure be written in full, although we already know, and the data are such that it will come true, and on the other hand we will not release where the actual economy would return their money to those who have earned it. I think that's the extreme that a coalition can afford. Do not give what is deserved in terms that could be shorter and reserve funds for something the economy does not need. Apparently, he doesn't need to if there's no applications. Now 15 million of those 200 million have been drained. 205 million are still unactivated. And I think we should do this. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Well, 215, that's even worse; maybe something's changed in between these two days. This actually shows that this approach is unrealistic in this part. And I'm just wondering how many such items are still in the state budget that will not be used, which will not be activated, where the coalition has made reservations, and then through amendments to the law on the implementation of the budget, will freely allocate them. This is also one of the points of the budget meeting and you have also proposed measures and extremely great flexibility and tolerance - for the ruling coalition, for the ministerial and government teams. These are measures that actually deserve consideration. And with this law on the implementation of the budget, these items, which are defined in the budget as dead as half dead, will be allocated for the purposes on which you will agree and invent them. And this is about redistribution of funds, I'll say, under quotations, into an ultra-area or into an infrared-area. This is what worries me most about the implementation of this budget. While we are still talking about austerity measures, it is likely that this part is also a major diversion. On the one hand, we have savings in coffee, for 3,000 euros in savings, and on the other hand we increase the Government's Secretary-General by an additional million euros. This must be essential for the purchase of new copiers, for those who have been amortized, who have made 30,000 copies, must be placed somewhere and sent somewhere. It's probably an inevitable expense. It will also have to be done in some way to ensure that this "machine" is fully used, because the one that was probably amortised probably did not copy the real copies. There may also be some item for the Secretary-General's travel expenses to Finland to explain something else there. If I touch one more thing. In fact, the only measure that you are very successful in this mandate is the increase in excise duties. Excise policy, modernisation of excise policy, this is a positive measure. And in these difficult times, when everyone fights for survival, including family and economy, you raise costs, you raise excise duties on individual items, on derivatives, and for something else you will do it for. That's what I have to say. You're consistent. All these measures are very voluntary to be adopted, very generously adopted and so on. And I am extremely concerned about this approach, because this item will also be very full and will probably not be used for the purposes for which it is intended. Maybe if you raise your excise duties on tobacco, I suggest if not, that you put the whole package of these from excise duty, from tobacco, into health care. That would be a move because it's very directly connected, more than, I don't know, a copy machine with the Secretary-General. In short, I must say that you have prepared a budget rebalance that is very inconsistent, which is wrong in the basic items, and that is probably why the relationship between the coalition and the government to this balance and to the consideration in the National Assembly is so, I will say, low, so small. We have two ministers, two secretaries of state, and 15, 20 members of the coalition, that's all. This gives the basic programme of this year, the 2009 budget rebalancing, so much weight. I can't believe it. Just a sentence, two to go. I also understand the opposition or coalition. Because how to start a term. First of all, by criticizing, spitting out all those who were in front of you. This is what you did when you rejected the final accounts for 2007, and this will also happen with the final accounts for 2008 and this has also happened in the debates, the opening discussions on the 2009 budget rebalancing. The second step is likely to follow when these measures, when these mechanisms fail after a few months, is time for these constant attacks, then they will probably follow the reorganisation. This is a typical example, a typical way of saying, again, to extend a life. There will probably be a third measure, if this is not yet taken, probably what they proposed in Zares. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The balance is definitely needed, but I don't know if it will be sufficient without amending certain laws. For the essence of the rebalancing is that it is necessary to fill the state treasury, but not only to redistribute the funds from one cup to another. Thus, some will have fewer than before, while others will not have much more than before. For this reason, I think that it is necessary to approach all matters substantially differently. In particular, we should have a prepared austerity policy. Not such a austerity policy as we have received in the form of those 30 and so many savings proposals, none of which would actually bring anything good or anything significant. On the one hand, we see gentlemen as saying Bavčar, who has one-eighth, one-tenth or one-eighth of the state budget of such a large hole, walking around with a smile, and now even talking about having banks, that is to say, holding a "stango" and saving him from the "zos" he buried not only himself, he certainly is not himself, but the whole country. The crisis he and his like is one that will certainly contribute at least 2% to those 4% of which the Prime Minister spoke about yesterday, and yet it is not obvious that there would be any such legal changes that could put this gentleman behind the door and call them to account. People in Slovenia say, "Stop shitting him already," literally, and that one of three such thieves should be put in front of the wall and one of three would be solved in a very short time, and they would bring back what the old moms stole from them. Maybe that's the only solution I can get. Not that we are trying to take what I know, for example, from ecological sources, from renewable sources to energy sources, when the resources of €27 million are halved into half, while all Europe says that it is necessary to invest in renewable energy sources. There's already been a mistake here. It is true, it is not just mistakes that I know, that I can commend the Minister of Public Administration here because she has done a lot because if she put anything else into the audit processes that has recently been learned that at her Ministry six people have been paid under contracts that will burn about 50,000 euros a month, that is about as much as the entire National Assembly with those fabulous wage reduction proposals will save in the whole year, for six people as much money. Here is the honour of Madam Minister, even in any other matter, but that I will not give too much praise to her at the end of the opposition. What would have to be done to make things better. Not in the first place to tell what happened, but what to do and how to do it. There was no such law in the social field that lazy people could be pushed to the neck. Our labor markets are full of people who don't want to work all the time. On TV we watched the workers from the Vrhnnik leather industry who said: "Oh, no, but in Ljubljana I will not drive because it is so far away." Such people need to be deprived of support, which in a lot of cases is even higher than the earnings of those who work honestly for a month. If these people were to be put on the road, the state treasury would be greatly facilitated in a positive direction, as these burdens would no longer exist. I've talked a few times about gypsies who collect terrible money. Papers have appeared in the media about how Mrs Strojan Elka gets about 1,200 euros a month there. Why? He also makes extra money with colored metals, but at the same time he doesn't pay for electricity, not water, nothing. And now they intend to sell the house that the country donated from our money, from the money of all workers and workers in the Republic of Slovenia, and to return to where they came from, as they say. And this is where the state does nothing. Nothing. However, at least here we would write lists and review which gypsies drive from Kočev to Novo mesto, from New Town to Trebnje and back and circle on this route and at each municipal office collect certain funds. The country's nothing again. On the other hand, we lock up those who look a little too much into a glass and even 70 years old people in prison overnight, while the gypsy can even take a self-service, and no one will do anything to him. It's true the police don't hope to do anything with the gypsy because he gets them around his ears, but whatever. We could've eaten that meatball by now and made an order. Sometimes those ex-militars made order in a very short time. Today our police officers do nothing, they lock up old moms, just like the 74-year-old German citizen who rode her bike home, locked her up overnight in a detention facility, please. The labour legislation that we have in Slovenia has not yet been amended. The only country in the world where someone who's already fit for retirement doesn't have to retire. He said, "I'm not going." And no one can hurt him. Of course it's not someone who makes 300 or 350 euros. That's what that gentleman from a certain political structure, from the left and from the right, who makes 3,000, 4,000 euros. Because if I retired, I'd have 1,000, 1,500 euros in pension. It is clear that he will insist on that job, will take up the position of young people with pulsating staff, will block development and will work hard to keep his job. And neither the minds nor the governments of the past nor the governments of the present come to change that. It is high time that these things are settled and that they are done at least by having someone stay at work to agree with both the employer and the employee, but not by making up an employee and saying, "I'm not going anywhere and I'm staying", even in the National Assembly there have been and are such examples. I don't know why the state doesn't think about public works. Public works are the solution to any crisis. That he knew about Mussolini, that Hitler knew, that Roosevelt knew, that many people knew, but we don't know. But public works mean to those lazy gentlemen who are now on the labour market, it is said, "You will do or nothing!".. That's how it's done. There's a shortage of soldiers in the army. Why don't we contract those young people who are now "sneezing their asses" instead of joining the army? Because they're too gentle, too poor, I don't know what hurts. What a country we are, what a nation we are, "porkafix"! It's all a little bit keely. We'd all be helping out. We'd all be doing something social, poor, poor, marginal. So, "porkafix," let's make something out of this country. First, let's make order. First, let's make order. Let us adopt laws that will create order that will require people to give something to their country, not only to receive it, but then to do otherwise. In addition, let's stop talking about social omnipotent Afghans, Pakistanis, and I don't know who else is coming from outside to Slovenia and they feel great here. Gypsies' camps at Trebnje grow with Romanian gypsies. And what? Of course, social services right there, and Amnesty International, well, I don't know what all NGOs, such and those and other, of course, NGOs that are connected to the state tentacles. We're such a beautiful country. Slovenia is, in fact, I am convinced that Slovenia is God's country and that we are God's people, because otherwise, in such foolish decisions, in such a foolish majority that we still exist and watch this, there is no other way to have not one hand of God above us, but two or more. It was also said: "Yes, you know, there is a crisis in Germany and if there is a crisis in Germany, then there will be even worse crisis." That's not true. We are small enough to avoid this crisis situation with our own wisdom, but of course let us stop discussing social issues long and long. And not "further" a bank with money and not "further" a bad business with money, which is bad to die. Cancer patients are not cured of divination, but they need surgery and a tumor cut, otherwise they can't be treated. And we can still worship him, it doesn't help. Bad companies should go from the ground. Those who have been brought out of the ground must be picked up, and all of them, as well as their children, their loved ones or their loved ones, will be different. And those thieves who here stole the country and pretty much disappeared to the Netherlands, England or the African islands. Why do we have intelligence? To count how many crows a year after Ljubljana, or what? Let them go down and pull them up. And if they can't find out from them and bring them to me, we'll find out where that money is hidden and the country will get it back. They're talking about vinjets. I've heard about vignettes a few times today. The solution for vinjets and for the hole created in vinjets is simple. On the one hand, let us take into account what Europe requires of us and, on the other hand, fill the budget. The current semi-annual wines should now be 10 days' wine and remain 35 euros' price. The current annual vignettes for €55 should be semi-annual vignettes and annual vignettes should be €105. Calculate how much that is. Whoever's on the road knows there's still a huge savings. The one who sometimes "jamra". "Yes, I go to the sea once a year" for that one better not go on the highway, because it'll make it crowded and unfortunate. Let's take the old road. But as for strangers, what do we care about foreigners, we take care of ourselves. But now we're gonna listen to what the yodeler says, what does Lah say, what does the hamster say in the south? "Madona," let's think about ourselves a little bit. I must say that there is certainly something good that I know in two days we will vote or debate on the proposal for a guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia. Beautiful marriage, precise, short, clear. I'd say the English wrote it, not ours. But as long as there's no control on this matter, there'll be nothing. But there is no control in Slovenia, not here, not there. We've got a whole bunch of inspection services hoping to do nothing. Or, because he gets what I know, what's small in his pocket, what free lunches where I am, and whatever hot dog or whatever burrito is, the thing is done. The police, who should be working in this area, don't do anything. It's true that she's humanely fed and they don't know, but they don't understand. Then a lot of cops rather deal with drug trafficking than work here for real. And that's it, unfortunately. Control, I said, until there's control, there's nothing. And as long as there's no sanctions, there'll be nothing. After all, why no one has been sanctioned. I am sure that it is not true that our laws do not allow sanctions, despite the fact that governments have been writing laws on their skin since 1992 that some have been able to steal. Because otherwise, I must say that from 1992 to today there should be something in prison. Well, as far as I know, he's one of those "tips" alone, and he's in one of those, I don't know, a little bit outside, a little bit inside and so on. I don't know what else we're going to do with this precious country of ours if we don't go hard on these things and cut through what's going on. Until we're in the public administration, in the ministries, sweeping out all the "breaths" that have been piled up since 1992, all the incompetent and corrupt personnel will be nothing. But here you have to have, like someone said, a steel one. [[...]] Unfortunately, we don't have much of that. True, some have such but full of fog. [[...]] That doesn't work either. And until this thing changes, there will be nothing. Inspections don't do their job, nobody wants to do it, everything's afraid. More and more people from former Balkan countries, from the area of the former Yugoslavia, are again. Now they just expect to get more compensation, that's all they're saying. I was pretty much in the south, and I have to say that in Serbia they say, "Thank God that scum has gone to you, we don't like him either." But they're waiting for the money and they're already counting. In order for someone not to think, some already do business in advance for that money that they are supposed to get with various lawsuits, for which the fact that some, not just some, most of them, will really be able to pay off. For according to our powerful legal experts, there will be one who will come, I know, some horse-meater from the New Sad, and all of our great lawyers will be thrown into a basket. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. If we look at Slovenian legal opinions, they are such that I don't know what to say, but I won't offend any chickens or anything like that. [[...]] As long as there's no law until there's fresh ideas, there's nothing. The fact is, we don't know how to use our own minds in Slovenia and our minds are running across borders. Our minds are disappearing, but they're taking great advantage of that intelligence outside. We belong to the lowest steps in inventiveness and similar matters. But we open a new university every two days. I mean, a strange country. [[...]] We could all have a job and work is a lot in Slovenia. Here I go back a little bit to the point where some people don't want to work, they don't want to.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u42	Mr. Jelinčič, go back to the rebalancing as well. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u43	Of course, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u45	Of course, it all falls into the budget's balance, because the essence of the budget's rebalance is to fill the gaps in the budget and somehow allow the country to emerge from the option when the waves are already rolling overboard. Well, then I'll come by a little later, Mr President, so long as it's enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you very much. You've been very kind. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] [[...]] Excuse me. You're not allowed to talk from the balcony. [[...]] [[Advertising from the balcony.]] Please, you're not allowed to talk from the balcony. [[...]] Sit down and don't interrupt the session. [[...]] [[Advertising from the balcony.]] [[...]] Anybody else want to discuss this? More. Then I'll open the application time, sign up for the debate. [[...]] [[Advertising from the balcony.]] [[...]] Mr Dejan Levanič applied for the debate first.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. However, I would like to stop a little longer with some information that obviously is not clear to many people in this Chamber, but it is essential that we know them, especially when we are talking about how to proceed. The balance of the budget was prepared, at least in my opinion, with great efforts in the short term, as a space of manoeuvre had to be sought to carry out anti-crisis measures. Since the adopted budget was based on the assumption of 4.1% of economic growth for 2009. Of course, the budget did not take into account the pre-election measures of the previous government which did not have coverage in the current budget and further reduced the margin of manoeuvre in the adopted budget. These funds were provided by the Government, this government, in the balance sheet of the budget. Come in. The study of the International Monetary Fund published in June 2007 warned us that Slovenia must reform public spending and change fiscal policy after taking over the euro. This is not what Slovenia did. Next. The International Monetary Fund and the European Commission have called on the previous government to prepare measures to increase cost-effectiveness and reduce budgetary tightness, but the government has not done so again. Since the previous government in the "fat cows" period is what we like to call when we are doing well, it has not been able to relatively reduce budget spending and consequently budget deficits, today, unfortunately, we are exposed to increased public financial risks when we cannot reduce budgetary expenditure because there is no reform of public spending and because no measures have been taken to increase the sustainability of public finances in the medium and long term. Today, the current government is also facing repayment of loans rather than facing only an economic crisis. Since the beginning of 2005, economic growth has been based on increased indebtedness. The most pronounced increase in gross external debt in 2007 was a good EUR 10 billion, which means that 6.8% of GDP growth was based on unhealthy foundations. The total external gross debt increased from €15 billion to €39 billion in the previous government's mandate. It is said that in the mandate of the Janša government, Slovenia was in charge abroad of almost the same amount as Slovenia owed from independence until the end of 2004. Dear colleagues and colleagues, especially from the Slovenian Democratic Party, have not yet denied this information to this day. During the period of high economic growth, in particular in 2006 and 2007, savings should be created and the public financial deficit eliminated, which could, of course, be considered by the previous government. At this point, I must honestly say that I am extremely pleased that the Borut Pahor government has taken responsibility at this very time, because it gives us a sense of trust and a sense of security. And especially because the government of Janez Janša has proved in the previous term that it is not able to manage the state budget and that is precisely at a time when we have had high economic growth, I do not hope to imagine how this country would lead today. Because, and this is clear today, the Slovenian Democratic Party, has no idea how out of the crisis, but a lot of, of course, empty words, what if. We all know how to do this, but it is time to speak honestly or ask ourselves what you have done to make it easier for us today and perhaps concrete answers. Nothing. Unlike those countries that have been in these times, it is said that, in better economic times, they are smart and have made a reservation at the time of economic growth, but unfortunately, we are in a clear "zero" debt. All because of the politics of the former government. This must, of course, also be made clear. If you followed your advice or your criticisms, which are all earlier than honest, how to continue the path from the crisis, today would be in a situation or at least a similar situation in which France, which has already exceeded 6% of the deficits, which means that it has exceeded the criteria, invested money in a big black hole and, of course, hoped that this money would help in the economic crisis. What happened? None of this is true; none of the measures, particularly with large financial investments in projects that are not standing, have led France to lose money and, in fact, not know what or how to go on. Unlike some colleagues, in particular from the Slovenian Democratic Party, I support my arguments to serve with the following data. In 2007, countries with lower economic growth and lower inflation had a much higher surplus of the country's wider sector than Slovenia was expected to have in 2007. For example, Denmark had a surplus of 4.5% of gross domestic product in 2007 at 1.4% of economic growth. Spain at 2.3% economic growth 2.2% surplus. The Netherlands at 2.5% economic growth 0.4% surplus. And Germany, which has major public financial problems, had 0.1% of gross domestic product surplus at 2.2% of economic growth. It is said that Slovenia had the same share of surplus in gross domestic product as Germany, despite the fact that Germany had three times lower economic growth and twice lower inflation. In 2006, the government was unable to generate surplus at 5.9% of economic growth, and the surplus in 2007 was only minimal at 6.8% of economic growth. That's real data. And it is right that before anyone is smart, what and how to act in a time of economic crisis, look at what has been done in the past, that we have come to the situation we are in. However, despite the surplus presented in 2007, savings are fictitious because Dars was extra-budgetary funding. The consequences of Dars' extra-budgetary funding were also presented by the Court of Auditors, which notes that we will be paying off debts by at least 2050. With regard to the 2009 budget, I should mention that the previous government could prepare changes to the 2009 budget, which would be based on a more realistic basis, but it has not done so. Even the law on the implementation of the budget for 2008 and 2009 has amended that it should not have to draw up a budget that would show that it did not plan to cover the pre-election promises. Listen, today is really not the time for us to present to each other the untruths, that the opposition is talking about something that is not true today. But if there is ever a time, now is the time to seek solutions together to alleviate the economic and financial crisis. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This is a real situation. I really don't want to talk about what happened, but it is absolutely necessary right now to understand what the current government has inherited. And if we look ahead, we clearly see that the balance is developmental and that the Government is well aware of the importance of maintaining jobs at this time and taking care of citizens and citizens who are not and will not be able to do so at this time. Investments are a major development element of the budget. These, together with investment transfers, will amount to almost 1.4 billion euros, 3.4% of gross domestic product. Compared to the implementation of the budget last year, 41% will be allocated to investment investments. The largest investment is expected mainly in the area of transport and transport infrastructure, where it is highly likely that budgetary investments in motorway infrastructure will be increased during the year, at the expense of the increase in cohesion funds in particular. Investment investments in the economy, environmental protection and natural heritage also have a large share. By size in fourth place, investment in public health institutions is. Investments for intervention programmes from last year's natural disasters will be the most important, which is also important for the avian area from which I come. In fact, Augustov's pitch there destroyed almost everything. In the second place are investments in energy and public health institutions. There is also provision for the use of the funds raised in the budget fund. Thirdly, there is an increase in investment funds in the field of culture. Fourthly, however, investment in science and technological development and, of course, agriculture. The increase in resources for science and technological development in this rebalancing is in the right direction because these funds are the so-called development component of the budget. The resources for science and technological development are increasing significantly in the state budget, and I believe that you have noticed that too. In 2008, the funds amounted to EUR 218 million, increasing by an additional €150 million or 70% in 2008 and 20% in 2009 respectively. The right direction is also to increase funding for education. Investing in human capital is very important right now if we want to be a knowledge-based society and it is therefore right to increase the funding for education in the balance sheet by an additional 9%. At this point, we really need a balance like this. This rebalancing is development-oriented and is made on the basis of economic data three months ago. Today, predictions are different, and we will also adapt to that. If we had listened to the advice that we should not accept a rebalancing due to the data that is changing, we would never have adopted a rebalancing at that time, as the data would change over and over again very quickly because they will adapt to the current situation and the derogations will be large and adjustments will be even more necessary. It is up to us to invest all our energy to adapt to these situations and to try to successfully drive Slovenia out of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! We accept the 2009 budget balance during the greatest global, financial and economic crisis since World War II. It is therefore logical that this crisis cannot be avoided by anyone in this world. The balance is therefore strongly counter-crisis-oriented. According to recent forecasts, economic growth in Slovenia will continue to decline and it is likely that there will be a need for a rebalancing in this year. We've heard about this today. However, it must be said that the 2009 base budget was already adopted at the end of 2007. It's in the time of the previous government. Many public finance experts have already begun to draw attention to the public financial policy issue of the government of Janez Janša in 2007. Even then, it was warned that the period of the fat cows would follow the period of the dry cows. During the period of economic growth, particularly in 2006 and 2007, the former government should create savings and address the public financial deficit. A few specifics were mentioned earlier by my colleague Dejan Levanič. The fact is that in 2007 countries with lower economic growth had much higher surpluses than Slovenia. Thus, for example, in 2006, the government was at 5.9% growth without surpluses created, which is very strange, very unusual. The savings in 2007 were also fictitious because Dars was financed out of budget. This was also pointed out by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia and also stated that we will repay these debts until 2050. Your Honor! Investment is certainly one of the most important development elements of the budget. The largest investments are foreseen on road and transport infrastructure. And here we run into a big problem, putting new roads into space. This is what some opposition colleagues have been reading to this government. The fact is, this is my data that, from 2005 until the beginning of this year, one local plan within state roads has not been adopted, except for the motorway programme, not to mention the placement of new railways in the space and the adoption of local plans for these railways. This is where the previous government completely canceled. It has not done anything in the entire mandate, so these investments are still standing today, and this current government will also find them difficult to realise. Rapid and urgent measures are needed in this area. Otherwise, the same finding will apply to this government at the end of the term of office, including to this current government. I do not want this as a coalition Member or as an advocate for the speedy realization of the fourth development axis. In addition, in the past, and even today, I will do so, I have put into question the current practice of managing investments. I reviewed plans for development programmes and investments in Slovenian hospitals, where the dates of the start of the investment and the dates of the end of the individual investment are precisely indicated. Let's see. Neurological clinic - start of investment: 1996, end: 2013 ORL Clinic - beginning: 1996, end: 2009. Oncology Institute - also the beginning of the investment: 1996, end: 2009. Paediatric hospital - beginning: 1996, end: 2015. Autumn hospital - beginning: 1999, end: 2015. Psychiatric hospital Idrija - start of investment: 1998, end: 2010 and 2011 and so on. We have more than ten years, almost twenty years from the start of an investment and from the start of funding to the end of each investment. This is an unacceptable long period. We record a number of promotions, changes and repairs of projects. Investments should therefore be planned in a slightly more meaningful and, of course, in substantially shorter periods. Investments are thus almost impossible to follow from start to finish. Investment management goes from hand to hand, ministers change, directors change, and so on. For very difficult investments in highways we have established a special company - Dars. I propose that, even for major national investments, for example in social activities such as large hospitals, such as the National and University Library, and what would happen, we establish a special company for the investment of the Republic of Slovenia that will deal with these projects and will be able to mate with powerful construction lobbyes. A major problem is also the lack of valid building permits. That's not a story from today. This story is repeated from year to year, from government to government. However, it requires that no project can be included in the budget and implementation. If he doesn't have a valid building permit, he could be a court sword. This applies to all investments in the country, not only in the field of health, as I mentioned earlier, in the field of culture or transport. Let's just look at the road investments. How many projects do we have with the current building permit in the budgets and in the country's development plans? No major investment can be started on the so-called development axes today; because the previous government has not prepared a single site plan; not a single building permit to start construction either on the third, or on the fourth, or on the third, or on the third A development axis. This year we will adopt the 2010 and 2011 budgets. It is said that we must already have valid building permits for 2011. However, the building permit shall be valid for one or two years until the start of the investment. So far, the logic of budgetary financing has not encouraged us to make building permits for supplies. I propose that the requirement for a valid building permit to include an investment in the State budget is not mandatory. I do not think that this was in the end written in the budget documents and in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. I think it was done well that this was not taken so strictly into account. Because many of the building permits are in preparation, and I am also afraid today that it will not actually be possible to spend all the envisaged investment money that we have at our disposal in the state budgets. This does not mean that today we would not encourage any new ambitious investment cycle in the coming years, which I think will be one of the important elements for dealing with the economic crisis. And finally, there's something else about the budget of the Ministry of Culture. I support an increase of more than €30 million. The legal basis for half of this amount is the amendment of the Law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of culture or the Cultural Euro Act proposed last year by Members and Members of the Social Democrats, which was also adopted by the National Assembly with the support of the coalition and the cooperation of the Ministry of Culture. This significantly improves resources for cultural heritage, investment in public institutions, amateur culture, librarying and cultural networks. I am also pleased that, this year, we will also be able to realise the funds for the reconstruction of the partisan Franja hospital, which the previous government has reserved in the budget, and will be realised in this year, and, of course, the funds that will be foreseen in 2010. I hope that this national project can also be successfully completed after the great disaster that struck this important monument on the UNESCO World Heritage List in September 2007. I would like to conclude by saying that he was very much criticised by some opposition colleagues of the Full-time Act and that, as has been said, this law did not have any effect. On the contrary. When the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Prof. Ivan Svetlik, visited the Idrija municipality and visited our large corporations Hidrio and Kolektor, the managers told him that it was thanks to this measure that these governments could keep more than 20% of the employees in their companies. And these are the companies that are hiring a few thousand of our people today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greeting to all present in the hall. I'm going to start a debate with a newspaper that says it's going to be bad. There is a curve that shows the growth of our economy or the decline. And there are two shifts on the curve, from 6.8% of economic growth in 2007 to 3.5%, and by the end of 2008, we are still only in shy 0.5%, 0.8%, and now in scary minus 4%, and given the need for a rebalance, we can see that this curve may still be falling and that we are not yet at the bottom. Of course, we have heard criticism that we have not saved enough in the previous government. Perhaps my colleague and colleague would like to ask if they could have enough of the three budgets to get them to zero by now. Unforeseeable incomes were quite high against the end of 2008. One of the colleagues has already mentioned the August Point in Ptujska, which I think the country has contributed €90 million. Now, to the essence of the debate. All week long, even today before Parliament, we have been warned by members and members of NGOs, as well as by e-mails, about the fact that the Government or the balance of the budget is too much of an environmental one. In particular, they drew attention to insufficient resources to subsidise renewable energy sources and to combat climate change. In addition, we received written warnings or a description of the situation that there is on the water programme, especially at the floods in 2007, a concrete letter is from Celjska, the same problem is also in our immediate surroundings, Railways, Žiri, Gorenje Vas, Poljana and Škofja Loka, where work on the rehabilitation of watercourses began, and now it is all in the air. And I might ask, but it's not in the hall, our colleague Saiovic, who was very worried six months ago about how he's going to be with the storms and watercourses in his area, but now, without the money to solve this problem, the budget or the rebalancing has marked as the best thing that can happen. I would also draw attention to the fact that some colleagues have already pointed out that recovery is still under way after mining in the environment. Comrade Bevk warned us about Bevk's silver mine, colleagues from Zasavje about coal mining, colleague Čadež about the uranium mine Žirovski vrh. On behalf of my colleague Mira Petka, I will tell you about the rehabilitation of the mining in the Mežiška Valley. My friend Friday is away, he's abroad, I'm totally relying on him, and I'm sure he won't talk any nonsense that would then tie the country up, but that's another topic and come back. The narrow valley is by many sources, we can see in the media daily that there is still a need for new remedial measures. In technical details, it would not have started, the works had already begun in terms of rehabilitation, but they needed to be completed and therefore resources needed. I think that the amendment has been tabled and, in terms of some solidarity, because many colleagues are also from other mining areas, it would suggest that this amendment should be supported and that the Mežíska Valley should be restored to such a level that it is more suitable to stay. I also observed in the newspaper that the economy is proposing that funds be found for so-called temporary unemployment. For a short period of time, the unemployed are taken over by the state, of course for a known period in which companies expect the crisis to be resolved and workers will return to work that they are used to doing and would only be rescued from the crisis in some better times. Today we've heard a lot about sitting in the same boat. Of course, we sit in the same boat, but we row in different ways. But the problem is also the steering of the boat, because it is hard to expect someone to swing like a madman and put all the energy into the rowing, if the rudder is driving, as it will suit him and pick up all the blind passengers and the sticks and the hidden metal anchors to make this rowing harder. Sooner or later, it will also come into this budget to find funds for the so-called deleted. And I wonder where we're gonna take them. Are we going to take them to the ZPIZ-Z, take them to the student diet, do any less road? And when it is absolutely necessary to do so, then each environment should attribute to itself the consequences of this broad - skinnedness offered by the State to some people who have survived these years in very strange circumstances. We are facing a crisis that has been imported, because we are all aware that our economy is linked to our biggest partner Germany, to Western European countries, but the crisis is also domestically produced. The tycoon balloon that happened is certainly not the fault in Germany, it is not the fault of the world, but it is purely domestic guilt. It turned out that purely average managers, these leading tycoons, who, after a bad year, two uncles and financial silences, are unable to survive and drive on a semi-gifted estate. I would also like to draw attention to the European Union's resources. 5 billion are ready to alleviate the crisis. Of course, there are also measures for the automotive industry, measures to combat climate change and so on. And if we want to get these funds, it's usually divided 40:60, you have to have 40% of these funds on our budget, otherwise it doesn't make sense to run, because we won't have the start over which we would draw these funds from Europe. NGOs outside the road, and those accompanying the meeting, and those who have alerted us to the problems, as well as local communities that are afraid of being flooded, certainly cannot be satisfied with the budget's rebalance. But we are even more concerned that there will be a balance on the balance sheet and we will have the adjective stepped up badly, worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Whether Slovenia is on the right track as to whether Slovenia can lead better, the final word will be held by voters and voters. I think it's the right thing to do, and it's the foundation of our democracy. I am disturbed by the fact that in dealing with the budget rebalancing it insists more on the female part of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia than on the male part, despite the fact that today is March 25th, Mother's Day. Otherwise, I think it is much more important to look at the content of the national budget balance that the government team has sent to the National Assembly. It is a matter of fact and it is very worrying that we are already asking ourselves, when we are considering the budget balance, whether it is really based on facts or whether it is really integrated in the time we enter. No, it's not. Does it make any sense to consider such a budget? If the members of the Government were to sit here today and listen to Members and Members coming from various parts of Slovenia, they would probably be able to better prepare themselves for the preparation of the budget rebalancing and to incorporate a piece of this into the next proposal. I'm sure there'll be something soon on the sent-off bench. Doesn't the coalition want a partnership with the opposition? Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is a fundamental question that needs to be asked over and over again. In the opposition, we have shown you several times in the vote and the outcome of the vote that without the opposition there is no way. So we're on the same boat, on the same boat. Let us be aware of how important it is, especially in times of crisis, not to politicise excessively, not to go back to the history of who is responsible for something, but to look at the present to make the future better. This is our fundamental issue, which we owe an apology to the electorate and the electorate. The opposition has often offered partnership with concrete, good proposals for laws. You didn't want them. Time has shown you were doing the wrong thing. In the crisis as we are, it is all the more important for us to work together and accept one that gives the best results for the present and also for the future. If I didn't repeat what my colleagues and colleagues have already said, I might be focusing on two ministries. Ministry of Health. I also had the opportunity to replace a fellow Member of the Health Committee. And, of course, I also took a close look at the individual items of the budget's rebalancing. It is true that the budget or the balance of the budget places large systems in health care on a small scale. If there's no small particles, there's not a large whole. And that was a mistake, and that was missed since the '90s and before the '90s. We're back at the time of centralisation. That's not good. This is not accepted by citizens and citizens. They want the basic system of health services close to their place. Many Slovenes and Slovenes, because they do not have the possibility of healing in their hospital, which is 5 or 10 kilometers away, must go to Ljubljana. There are many such cases, although flexibility can also make it possible for doctors and appliances to be available in these hospitals to get this treatment closer to their home. When a person is sick, he also needs a shorter distance until he gets to a hospital or a health home. All items at the Ministry of Health actually show and reflect the centralisation of the system. And if so, then those from Prekmur and those from Primorska, Dolenjska, White Krajina and Koroška will continue or more than ever will be forced to use all these health services in the centre. So, in Ljubljana. I would also like to highlight here the Ministry of Environment and Space. I appeal to the President of the Government to really hit the table and all these bureaucrats at the Ministry of Environment and Space to help carry out all those issuances of necessary or unnecessary permits to start an investment in a remote place. For example, I will take the municipality of Nova Gorica and Trnovo, where representatives of the local community have told us on a recent visit that they have been waiting for a building permit for 30 years and that they have a rule that when a potential entrepreneur starts a thorny road to obtaining a building permit, he will die before he can build a building permit. And if we look at the east of Slovenia, the Haloz area, where the Ministry of Environment and Space does not allow scattered construction in the hilly part of Haloz or on the other part of the Slovenian mountains. Listen, this is incomprehensible. Despite the droplets allocated to these areas, the country is building a pipeline and several roads, and it does not allow the construction of individual houses with this necessary infrastructure. And if I am already with the Ministry of Environment and Space, which provides resources from the so-called Water Fund for the construction of water pipelines, let me mention at least three hot areas for drinking water supply. If we're going west of our beautiful country, I'm going back to Nova Gorica, Trnovo, where I was surprised that they don't have healthy drinking water, they don't have public water they've been waiting for for for a while. And if I go to the other side, to the eastern part of Slovenia, to the Haloz area, there is also an area waiting for public water supply. Even in Haloza, people don't have public plumbing. If it does not hold the information we received directly in the field, please explain it to the Slovenian public. I must have been in this area, and the people who took us there certainly didn't lie. If they lied, then so do I. But water supply on Trnove and Bansko Plano is probably not enough. As in Haloza, people are waiting on the basis of the source of survival, the water supply. Well, if anything, then from the state budget's rebalancing, he knows exactly what we wouldn't expect. That, on the one hand, the government is saving, is squandering funds, and so is it. We all agree that savings must be made. And we also said to the Members and Members that we would save. Whether we save a lot or a little, it doesn't matter. But we gave an example. And that's right. But, you know, these examples could be of concern to someone else. If we look at the item, it has been exposed several times today, a figure at the General Secretariat of the Government, plus 10%. Is that what we say we're saving? Is this the one that helps the Slovenian economy at this time of crisis? No, no, no. That's all before that. As well as the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. We have recently adopted a number of conclusions in this National Assembly, and it is also right that we have adopted them, we agreed, because we are aware that corruption in the Republic of Slovenia must be stepped on the tail in order to limit it. Although we will not completely get rid of it, these were important conclusions that we adopted with 76 or 78 votes. On the other hand, it pains the fact that, on the Commission's anti-corruption agenda, 118% more money has been added to the 2009 state budget balance than was envisaged. All right. If I say this in numbers, with €570,000 there is a million 200 000 and €702 000 more than planned. But I would also accept that if I knew that this was really going in the direction for which the National Assembly, by a majority, had adopted and endorsed the proposed conclusions. But no. This money will be used for other purposes. That's what he's worried about. And it worries the fact that I am quite specific that we can see from this document what is misleading. He deceives the fact that the explanation of why such an increase is also to note the text that says: "In the larger number of different types of material costs, the costs of the International Conference in the Republic of Slovenia are included between 11 and 13.11.2009, the content of which relates to the fight against corruption and was planned within the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of Europe." I went to the details and looked at the complete documentation emanating from the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia at that time. There's no such thing as an item anywhere. Report on preparations for the Presidency of Slovenia to the EU Council in the first half of 2008. And I do not see this in this document, which the applicant justifies as justified. You know, these are the things that worry. And these are the facts that give Members and Members the sense that we are also misled by the explanations of such elevated items. This is not good and this does not reflect any actual situation, it does not reflect what the Government has committed itself to, the present, the current Government has committed itself to follow and to help with its actions to the benefit of the whole of Slovenia or citizens and citizens. And because I am sure that we can expect to get the balance of the budget, give the Government's distinguished representatives, take into account the debates of Members and Members, for we defend what we are committed to, and justify what we are committed to, the State to ensure, if not the other, at least healthy drinking water, which is the constitutional category of the rights of every citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u55	Dear Mr. Vice President! Dear Minister, professional associates! Dear colleagues and colleagues! For some time I weighed whether I should use that word or not, but it is true that this hall is round and that some in this room are running a circus. It seems to me that this topic, which is on the table today, is too serious to start a circus out of it, because perhaps some have not yet had conversations or conversations with those who lose their jobs, who lose their jobs, who cannot survive alone, who are handicapped in all areas because there are no jobs. That is why I would like or would like to allow myself today to commend all those, including the opposition Members, who have been discussing seriously, wisely, because this is a topic for serious and prudent discussion. The largest postwar recession in the developed world is present. I can almost say that it has surprised all governments in Europe, as well as governments in the world. I assume that our government has also had to prepare more knowledge and skills and have the capacity to prepare anti-crisis measures. The best policy in crisis situations is, of course, a development policy. Development has, in principle, driven progress. The situation at this point is worse than we know. I have a lot of data from our neighbouring countries, Austria and some others. A lot of companies stand, 50% in Austria. A lot of people are home, and they're out of jobs. These are the special circumstances of work, business, and these are special circumstances at the moment. And doing business in such situations is, of course, difficult. The government must ensure that these special situations are given priority and that such crisis measures are prepared that must be directed towards improving the economy in our Slovenia. Of course, subsidies to the economy, science, technology, as we have heard today, and development, and these are the right measures. I appreciate that these are the right measures, and I expect them to work positively. However, for some things we are handicapped, I will simply say: the boat with the projects left by the previous government is empty, so there are no projects prepared, as we have heard, neither for the highway cross nor for the railways, nor any other projects with which we could draw European funds this year or in the future. We're handicapped here, and we're all gonna have to get through this together. Of course, it is true that this 2009 budget rebalancing was prepared on well-known assumptions one month ago. So it's a reflection of this state, not today's. It's a reflection of the state that was at the time of this rebalancing. For this reason, I do not know why you are so opposed to the Government paraging these measures, if it finds that they are not sufficient, prepare the following to respond to that situation, to the present, to this day, to this day and to this day. I'm assessing this as the right way. This means that the situation needs to be monitored and responded to every day. Of course, there are also some companies from Pomurje that use funds to reduce working time. This has also preserved our region with a considerable number of jobs, for which I should say thank you three times. Not once have I heard anyone hoping to say something in this House praise the economists, the managers who are currently 80% in Slovenia who care about good business in these times of crisis. And I hope to commend those among us who are daily, on the way and with great effort to make sure that at least those companies that are doing business with us continue to do so. And I'm sure they invest a lot of their hard work, knowledge, and I'm proud of that. I'm sure most of them are, so the good ones who care about it, and I thank them. Of course, I will support the balance because I think this is the right answer to the situation we're in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Nicely greeted! I take this opportunity to congratulate all women and mothers on today, Mother's Day! Debate on the 2009 budget balance This area is being exploited here today by some for words that may not belong in this space. It's bad for the reputation of us sitting here. Who is what and who has not done what at this time has done nothing to make it easier for us to cope with the global crisis that has touched our country as well. While we are all talking about crisis and saving, we must also think about the future at the time of the recession and invest in development. Investment in road and rail infrastructure is certainly an important item in future planning. Mostly for two reasons. Firstly, space planning and implementation take a long time, and each year is therefore damaging. Secondly, the consequences of non-maintainment and irregularity of roads and railways have long-term consequences for the economy and for development, especially for rural cohesion and development. Slovenia will be as developed and strong as any province or region of Slovenia will be developed and strong. Good transport routes and accessibility are one of the key conditions for the development of the economy. We successfully built motorways in Slovenia, which made us underinvested in the development of railways, and too few resources were left to rebuild and maintain and build state and regional roads. We can see in the budget that total revenue is around €8 billion 782 million, of which €873 million is from the EU budget, and total expenditure is €9 billion 916 million. So we owe 1.4 billion euros. I would like to point out that the biggest investments are foreseen in transport and transport infrastructure, namely 1.6 million euros. We can explain that these investments are all under the debt item, so in reviewing some revenue, we see that the lower estimate of revenue is due mainly to adverse economic developments, this year around €370 million, the measures taken to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis or the laws adopted in 2008 and 2009, about €213 million, namely, the 63 million euro amendment of the Law on Income and the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons, the reintroduction of investment benefits to that extent, the 50 million euro for the Income Act, the 50 million euro law on Taxation of Legal Persons, the investment aid, the 50 million euro law on tax procedure, the reduction of taxation. Of course, some incomes are also higher. I have tabled an amendment to the sub-programme of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, as it bothers me that the funds are being reduced for investment maintenance and construction of state roads, some of which have not been restored for decades and many have been further destroyed in the construction of motorways. I am therefore rightly concerned about the attitude towards this area. The 2009 draft budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia provides for €550,000 for a Western bypass at the section between Lackova and Kardelo Road in Maribor. I propose that at least two million euros be provided for this project, which would be necessary for land purchases. The purchases of land and facilities in 2009 and 2010 would require approximately EUR 9 million, of course by funding part of the purchases from the municipality. Why are the funds for the Divača-Koper railway projects being reduced? I have also tabled an amendment for the sub-programmes of the Ministry of Environment and Space. This is an active water pump protection Vrbanski plato which needs to be built to ensure optimal safety and prevent groundwater pollution. Active protection includes the construction of a pump on the left bank of Drava between Maribor Island, the construction of a transport pipeline to the water-preparation facility and to the water-rechargeable well system and the construction of a water-rechargeable well system. [[...]] In order to protect the water source of the water pump Vrbanski plato, it is necessary to provide approximately € 10.5 million according to an a proxy estimate. Of which, for the acquisition of the necessary land, documentation and other investment costs, EUR 1.9 million and for the construction of approximately 8.6 million. Since there is an inevitable rebalancing ahead of us in the near future, keep these proposals in front of your eyes at least then and put them in the budget, as you will show by this move that you are not thinking centrally and that you do not care how individual parts of Slovenia develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u59	Respected and respected! I'm one of those who's afraid of the next predictions. Many of you have criticized today that the government has come before the National Assembly with a rebalancing made on the basis of a December assessment of economic trends. We already know today that these estimates of economic trends do not hold. On the contrary - they have further deteriorated and predict a 4% reduction in gross domestic product. So Slovenia is in negative growth. I don't know how you imagine what the Government should actually do at this point in time. Should he simply wait for the next forecast, which may also change?Oh, my God! No! No! The new government has done the only thing rational in the given situation. On the basis of existing projections, it proposed a rebalancing to the National Assembly. And one thing we have to agree on. Regardless of the changed circumstances from the month of December to today, the balance ahead of us is much better suited to the actual situation, situation and needs than to the budget that is in force for 2009 today, which was adopted and proposed by your government. I'm sure the rebalancing will be adopted today. I am also convinced that this is not the end of our work. What this country needs today is an responsive policy. And a new and new and continuous reflection on measures, including fiscal measures, which we can do in the National Assembly. And in this respect, I think it's important to draw attention to one important difference. What experience in the previous government shows that some of the unpleasant circumstances the previous government has tried to cover up. No, our Government has informed the public on the first day that this information came to the President of the Government about new forecasts of reduced economic growth or negative growth. And this points to one honest policy, a policy that we need in a given situation to look realistically and soberly at the situation that Slovenia and its economy are currently in. We understand that we are part of a globalized world, that we are not an isolated island, and that all that is going on outside is necessarily affecting the situation at home. I think so. It is important, however, that in the framework of our powers and options, we think about what Slovenia can do today, because, at the end of the day, heritage is not exactly the world. In one of the first performances, the Prime Minister of the Government said that this crisis is not a consequence of the work of your government. But the fact is that your legacy is one that today is largely tied to our hands in order to have a wider chance of reacting to it. What are we thinking? On the one hand, to the new legal obligations that are being realised today's rebalancing, additional for salaries plus €142 million, social transfers plus €213 million, kindergartens plus €10 million, student diet plus €33 million, reimbursement of investments in telecommunications plus €50 million, municipalities plus €43 million and so on. On the fact that at the end of 2007, you had made a very wrong assessment of what will be the revenue of the State budget in 2009. The fact is, you've been planning for different times, and I can't personally blame you for that. Income - minus 222 million, corporate income tax - minus 113 million, VAT - minus 114 million and so on. Another piece of information that came to me today. When he took over the government, Janez Janša obtained 7.6 tons of gold in the treasury and sold 4.4 tons of gold during his period. So there's only 3.2 tons left for the new Pahor government. Why did John Janša sell a huge share of the gold reserves at a time when it was clear to everyone that the price of gold would continue to increase? One of the proofs of this is the time of this crisis. Debt. Today, several times has been mentioned, the increase in indebtedness, which was greater than 15 years since the adoption, has increased from €15 billion to €39 billion in just four years. Why? Because you have driven so many times the singing economic growth, 7.9% which resulted in increased indebtedness on the one hand and on the other hand on the growth of sectors with lower added value: trade and construction. Today, we also have great problems. And yes, today we also have problems because unfortunately the previous government has not seen more than the next elections. I don't hide that the current coalition has some problems as well. The public has clearly observed this problem in the first hundred days. What I think is important is that this coalition and the new Slovenian government learn from their mistakes. And I am sure that the new team at today's point has played so much that it represents one competent, played team that is able to recognize and respond effectively to the real problems of Slovenian society in this crisis. Now is not the time for general logic where you called each other in the government and made decisions like an oiled machine. Now is the time to think constructively and in depth about the causes of this crisis and on the basis of a good understanding of the problems and causes we are looking for the right solutions. We all know that this crisis is not the cause of our problems. This crisis is a result of the problems accumulated before the Slovenian, European and global communities. That is why we need a new reflection on the measures today. I would like to point out that the measures taken by the Slovenian Government are comparable to those taken so far by our biggest external trading partners. We didn't take them later. Some of these measures can be said to have been adopted by Slovenia before, for example, Germany adopted them. However, the fact is that we do not know, and we do not know today whether they will be fully entrenched, at which point the measures will have to be complemented and amended, because it is not possible today to put in place a comprehensive anti-crisis policy and expect it to be apprehended tomorrow. This crisis is so profound that it requires day-to-day reflection on whether they are concepts. Borut Pahor predicted that anti-crisis policy would have to be pursued every 100 days. But I think we need to know where we want to go with 100-day steps in 2,000 days. I think that one of the priorities remains, and I am personally pleased with this budget balance also because it increases funds for social transfers. I think that this must be one of our common priorities to mitigate the social consequences of the crisis, when this crisis also strengthens its social dimension. We have in our office, I am sure that my conclusion on this is not alone, my Member's almost exclusively advertises people, brings me a statement from the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and proves that their compensation from the EUR 230 disability insurance, a pension of EUR 300, a low scholarship, a low salary and so on. If we are to mitigate the consequences of this crisis, then we will have to think more about how best to channel help to people in a rather decommissioned social state, which is the result of your government's work. I want one dilemma of principles. We all know the dilemmas about the Red Cross and the affairs of years ago. Today, it seems to me that every time I mention the Red Cross, the interlocutors refer to some distortions and irregularities in the functioning of humanitarian organisations in the past. Personally, I am convinced that today these organisations are more flexible to reach those individuals who need this money. People need money for very, very fundamental things: how to pay electricity, how to pay rent, how to pay their heat supplies, how to buy books for their children, so that they can continue to study. And in this respect, it seems to me that more than ever before it is necessary to show social sensitivity and, I am sure, deep-rooted solidarity in the foundations of Slovenian society and nation. At the same time, this state budget, the rebalancing of this budget, is rapidly increasing investment funds, an index of 177%. Of course, in view of the fact that we are facing a decline in private consumption and that it will continue to decline further, we are facing an increase in national consumption, and let us try to help at least that investment part of the economy with increased public spending in those programmes that, for the first time, are operational this year, so they can be implemented in 2009 and, on the other hand, in those programmes that will drive economic growth on the one hand and, on the other hand, create structural change. Someone from the opposition earlier said that he did not recognize any priorities in this rebalancing. With the fact that we have increased or increased resources for the labour market by 182%, for the economy 138%, for science 170% and also for education, which clearly shows that Slovenia is also going through this rebalancing on the path of the desired goal, and this is that in the shortest possible time and with the necessary structural changes we will achieve that Slovenia is a knowledge society, a society of high innovation, which will be a source of added value that will ensure higher prosperity, better wages, more favourable conditions for the work of Slovenes and Slovenes, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me mention this, because you are very much in favour of the current government, and I can't blame you for missing the two of you. Firstly, the International Monetary Fund also came to Slovenia and analysed Slovenian anti-crisis measures. And unlike many countries in the neighbourhood, he estimated that Slovenian anti-crisis measures were appropriate, that we had some long-term structural problems, such as the pension system and so on, but that the Slovenian government, this government, which you tell her has not done anything for this crisis, has done all this time. Also excise duties in order to increase revenue to the state budget and, through this, to channel these funds into new development programmes. Is it so hard to understand simple logic? Secondly, the government has brought a fresh billion euro of funds, which we can use today to effectively combat the crisis, through a call for government bonds to the state budget. The fact is that this crisis is deep and that it is the wrong assumption of those who want to alleviate this crisis in the hope that the world will simply return to the old oily lines of neoliberal capitalism. It's over, and I'm the last one crying for it. This crisis is an opportunity to find that greed, which has driven the Western economy for the past 40 years, is not the fuel of this world. That the fuel of this world can be human and its fantastic creative power, the opportunities that we have in order to remedy environmental and nature interventions, to protect natural resources such as water, clean air, and in the final phase also the community that we have lost in the last 20 years of the independent Slovenian state, and this community needs to be strengthened so that the gap between the country and the individual does not become so great, but to bring the country closer to the human being through the community and thus ensure fundamental security. And the very absence of this security and the thesis that fear is the one that drives things forward is the fundamental mistake of neoliberal doctrine. I'm glad that what John Nash, Milton Friedman, Thatcher, Regan, George Bush, Jr., etc. invented today with this crisis is definitely dead. So the crisis is an opportunity to realize that a fundamental change is needed, a structural change in the economy, where every effort in society must be directed towards finally achieving our common objective. This is that Slovenia is a knowledge society, an innovation society, a society where we will identify methods and technologies that represent added value: design, ecological technologies, renewable energy sources, personal and social services and so on. In this respect, I agree with Mr Ziherl, who drew attention to the comments made by the Slovenian Environmental Centre of NGOs and by the surveys they hold. I think that we can all see together in environmental transformation one opportunity on which Slovenia must build very actively. I therefore expect the Slovenian Government to prepare the Copenhagen Summit starting points as soon as possible, to bring them to the National Assembly for consideration, to consider them together here and at this summit, which must be the urgent continuation of Kyoto, to add value to the European Union's more efficient equipment, which has absolutely led the fight against climate change in this area. This is what we need, and I think it is also the task of the National Assembly to participate very effectively in this debate and to present its proposals and assessments. The President of the Government said in his next speech today that more business ethics were also needed at the time of the rebalancing. I think that society as a whole needs new ethics and revalues so far. Let me remind you that, with my colleagues, Dr. Luko Juri and Dejan Levanič, I took the initiative last week to subsidise the purchase of organic vehicles, the goal of which is that today it will not be fragrant to ride with a large SUV, but it will be cool to drive with an ecological vehicle that releases as little CO2 as possible on a transported kilometer. This is just a practical example of one transformation of standards, ideals that we need in Slovenian society today. And in this respect, we need more smart countries to ensure individual freedom based on respect and trust, smart security of natural resources and a stronger community. And I am sure that we are also doing this and in this direction with the balance of the budget that is ahead of us today. I would also like to draw attention to the European dimension of this anti-crisis policy. Some authors, including in the latest issue of Foreign Affairs, talk about the downfall of the West and about the possibility of other regions and civilizations to take over what the Western hemisphere held until yesterday, led by the United States. Today we need to work on the partnership balance between civilizations and economies, on reform of relevant institutions and international organisations, starting with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Today, this crisis also calls for intensifying our efforts to reform the United States or, if you will, the European Union. The European Union, which has been the most proactive creator of development policies, development concepts, the fight against climate change for many years, is losing this battle today. And in this respect, we need not only the Treaty of Lisbon but also the political agreement that needs to be adopted as quickly as possible in order to flexibilize the functioning of the European Union. Last week, the EU summit presented the first measures at Union level. Of these measures, I think Slovenia will receive €11 million. This is not enough and at European Union level, we need to do more at the level of this five hundred million market. However, I would like to draw attention to another efficiency of the Slovenian government, namely the clear non-protectionist aspirations represented by some large Member States. On the same day as the news of the move of Clia 2 from Revoz to Paris, Borut Pahor reacted clearly and in dialogue with Nicolas Sarkozy made clear that Slovenia did not agree to such protectionist measures. The reactions of Paris are known, are favourable to Novo mesto and I would like us to know in the future to react so clearly and to protect Slovenian jobs. By the way, this rebalancing allows us to take into account those anti-crisis measures that we have already taken in this National Assembly. I walk around the Maribor companies and industry a lot, and I find that we have different cases, but basically the Maribor economy is structurally healthy today. I'm going to give an example of the Maribor Foundry, whose competition across Europe is in massive decline. If we know today with liquidity assets, such as the guarantee scheme law, to help this company, we have a good example of how this country can get stronger out of the crisis. Because this company also receives new orders today, including in the automotive industry, it needs liquidity to obtain the necessary material to execute these orders. It is also essential to reflect on the impact of the measures so far. And in this regard, I welcome the State Council's initiative with a proposal for a full-time subsidy law. In some Maribor companies, it is recalled that this measure has not been decided because it gives them too little flexibility. In the Maribor Cimos, for example, on the one hand, they do not have enough orders in part of production, and on the other hand, they are growing and should also have additional employment. The fact is, because of the different profiles of these workers, they cannot manage these peaks within the framework of existing jobs. I also agree with those who believe that, in the context of regular evaluation of measures, the upgrading of measures and the flexible policy of the Government in this area, which will reflect some response to passing economic circumstances, it is also essential to ensure adequate control. Even in existing measures, I am sure there are cases where some have already tried or even misused the public funds that we are earmarking for economic restructuring programmes and new development programmes. And in this respect, I call on the Government to establish appropriate control mechanisms, including in the context of the measures that we will take on this Government when we talk about the guarantee scheme. What further convinces me that the rebalancing is the real response to the challenges we face in the general budget is the presentation of additional resources based on the Government's 2009 measures: the Ministry of Economy totalling 50 million, of which 17 million are restructuring companies, promoting the development of a small economy of 21 million, promoting tourism and hospitality development, a point that you all praised last week on the Committee on the Economy, 10 million, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology for an additional 60 million euros for several programmes. These are the promises that show the courage of this government to face the consequences of this crisis in a structural and deliberate manner and to bring Slovenia out of this crisis more strongly. It will be a society of knowledge and a society of high innovation that will be the source of a better life for our people. Let me finish. I'll support the budget balance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary. Colleagues and colleagues. I am fully aware that creating a balance in these circumstances is a very difficult work. On the one hand, the negative effects of the economic recession, on the other hand, of the legislative obligations that the State must fulfil in order to fulfil all these promises and requirements for citizens and citizens. And whoever has something to do with creating such or different balance, then they know that such a balance is a little bit of an artistic work. That is why I appreciate and respect this. The opinion of the DeSUS Group has already been expressed and expressed today. In this opinion, we certainly welcomed the decisions and directions of the rebalancing to invest more in investment, to invest more in the labour market, to invest more in technological development, higher education. Of course, we also had some concerns when we came to this social content and we felt that this balance was not the most socially oriented. This was mentioned by some of the facts that talk about the reduction of funds allocated to PPIZ, the reduced funds that speak of a slightly reduced project for the construction of old people's homes. In doing so, we were also reminded of the fact that funds are being reduced for this health sector, which mainly covers the necessary investments in facilities in the healthcare system. Of course, we know that the balance will never match everyone. We do know, however, that these discussions, including today's, and those that will be, will be those directions and directions for the creation of a new balance or the next balance, if not that, at least the 2010 budget, 2011. Of course, it is right that funds are allocated to promote social transfers, but these social transfers are always rejected and depend on how and how these funds are distributed in the most equitable way. And like the parliamentary group at the time 'yes', when it came to student nutrition, not least when it came to subsidies for the second and third children in kindergarten and for many other programmes, we think that these funds of the social programme or social transfers should be very fairly distributed. The saying is, "We don't feed him hungry if we give him fish, but we feed him if we teach him how to fish. Therefore, the direction and the money we give to the labour market is a very right decision. Look, a very pragmatic example I'm going to tell you about all of this -- like I said, student diet and all that. I will tell you that anyone dealing with primary schools and principals at this time - come to the congregations and talk about the fact that more and more parents are no longer able to pay for a warm meal - are having lunches for their schoolchildren in primary schools. Imagine the kind of children standing in front of the food dealership, and when someone has to get there and pull this and this and this one out of the class and tell him that his parents didn't pay a hot meal for it and that it doesn't belong to him anymore. I think that this is the fairness of social transfers that should go beyond the future to an area like this. Of course, it's very difficult to distribute, but I'm sure that if we're so sensitive to all these things, then our task is probably easier. The exit from the crisis, alleviating all the negative consequences of the crisis, is absolutely seen in accelerating investment, promoting investment in our infrastructure as well. From this place and at this point, I should say that I am not the one pointing to the previous government or over-appreciating this government; I am not the one who would cause some disputes between the left and right sides, but if at this moment we had prepared projects of state importance, projects in road infrastructure, railway upgrade projects or other environmental or energy projects, then we would start with some investments, open up new jobs and generate all this development that is needed at this point. I am convinced that the best social policy is investment, investment opening and job creation. Why are we still dealing with the question of the third development axis that the previous government has promised to start working in 2008? At that time, it was promised that State spatial acts would be made and that a building permit would be issued and that a third development axis would now be implemented at least in this northern part from Šentrupert to Holmenac. The third development axis, you know, is of vital importance for Koroška, for Šaleška, for Savinja and today it would probably be much easier if we had such projects that could be opened and could be implemented. On the other hand, let me criticise the Government in the sense that until today, the Government, the ministries, has not yet called for a call for European funds. The municipalities and other environments - we have ideas, we have projects, including building permits, and we are waiting for the government to make calls so that we can apply. Finally, it is also a social policy that we will be able to open new investment in local environments and create new jobs in this way. But I don't know why the government is waiting. We well know that September 30th is the time when we have to issue the latest situation and the latest invoices. How much time do we have left to wait for the invitations to apply? How many of these things will we be able to realize this year so that we can close the last situation in September and request reports for our municipal budget? And I have to say here that we're not happy. It's going too slowly. Today we should have a concrete discussion on the application for invitations to tender. At the same time, the Government and the administration of ministries have commented that even when we apply for some calls, even when we have all this documentation, our calls or applications are rejected. However, let the administrations of ministries decide once and for all not to reject documents and reject our applications on the basis of some administrative anomalies that absolutely do not. And if I go back, then let me say this, the amendments are ready for this rebalancing. DeSUS will certainly have to support the amendment tabled by the SDS concerning the dradnian supplement. This is not just for pensioners, it is for all socially disadvantaged categories. And if the Government does not give a clear and concrete answer by tomorrow to implement this intention seriously within the time frame for the implementation of this budget, then the DeSUS Group will have to vote in favour of the amendment tabled. Therefore, this should be one of these comments and all the others, which should lead to the next, if necessary, a rebalancing, but certainly for the preparation of the State budget for 2010 and 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Alexander Zorn has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I'm absolutely sure that the former government is responsible for this rebalancing. At first, I thought that a well-respected coalition had a chip that could blame the previous government for everything in the world. Now I see how right he is. For the proponent spoke of the global crisis - by the way, he must have made a mistake, but because of the rebalancing of the previous government, it is logical that it is also responsible for the global crisis. And because this global crisis started out out there in America, because they've been selling loans for so long until there's only one loan left, it's clear that we're also guilty of this financial manipulation. So I can apologize deeply to America, I can apologize to the world and apologize to everyone else here for the previous government that has committed this sin, that we are now accepting this rebalancing. By the way, I also apologize for climate change, [[...]] [[Laugh.]] But I don't apologize to the previous government for causing us to get this government. [[...]] Because I can't forgive her for that. And now for the balance. We've heard from the proposaler himself that he's an elephant on the wrong facts. So is the balance wrong? I guess it is. That's a phenomenal problem. We are voting or discussing something that is not present, as it will only be present later when it is corrected and it will be the right one. Or even more, this rebalancing, we have heard, we must accept so that we can accept the next one, which will be the right one. It is said that we give him the same existence and by accepting him - otherwise he is not. I'll tell you what. For example, I can commend the Ministry of Higher Education, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture for receiving increased funding, which is, of course, excellent and commendable. But if this balance is something that hangs in the air, will I not commend something that will not be and will be deleted in the next balance?Oh, my God! So with my compliments, I'll be a little more modest. I'll wait for her to see when any balance really becomes real and real. I also have two specific comments. The first is for the Ministry of Education. For all the restructuring that is forecast, all the funds relating to adult education have been eliminated, but we know that in Slovenia they will die whole sectors, that a whole range of businesses will change and that adults will have to be educated. However, these assets were deleted. What does that mean? It is said to be in complete disharmony with the basic rules outlined by the Government and its rebalancing. The second thing is a slightly different type of metal and it concerns the Ministry of Culture. On the Committee on Culture, we agreed to say the exact date, 15. 1. The proposal that the Government actively participate in the celebration of the 150th anniversary of the ratio of the bishoply seat from Shent Andraz to Maribor by holding a national celebration to this end. As this now falls to the Ministry of Culture, we asked the Minister at the previous meeting of the Committee on Culture what she had done with this proposal. She said she didn't know him, even though our committee adopted him unanimously. And since the committee is composed in such a way as to have a majority of the coalition, it is clear that this is, so to speak, a government proposal. I am therefore afraid that this sudden loss of memory in this regard is related to ideological prejudice, because it is a matter of Slomska, who belongs to the Catholic Church, although we have decided on the committee itself that his action is so important that there remains a vocabulary to this day. General Maister wouldn't have been able to do it if it wasn't for Slomškov's act. So it goes beyond any religious basis and is deeply domestic. The sudden loss of memory also tells us something about the intentions of the Ministry of Culture. So let me make a decision. We'll get a great balance when it's even there. Until then, I apologize for that, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary. Of course, the balance is somehow logical. It would be logical for us to have such a government to be able to draw up a realistic balance. Here today we have listened from the government only by groaning; simply moaning and predicting a new rebalancing on this rebalancing. It is true that the economic, economic situation in this country has deteriorated dramatically during the time of this government. Commenting solely on the global recession and global situation is evasiveness. Your government is specializing in the collapse of the Slovenian economy, and today, when the Prime Minister spoke about this, he was talking about some joint rowing, about some rowing - he was using some sort of maritime parable himself. True, many have found that this boat is practically already turned down to drown, but unfortunately you are sinking in such a way that you will also drag Slovenia under the water. Look, I would - if he was already using these metaphors - the government suggested that he use at least one logic, say, which is in the poem of Lermonot about the sail, about a boat that says, "Is the sail not looking for happiness... But the sail desires a storm, as if there were peace in the storm!" Now it's stormy times, that's a challenge. In the beginning, Pahor said that the crisis was a challenge for him; today, he was not talking about the challenges, and today he does not know the way forward. And stormy times really are sacred, but unfortunately, the world is better saved. Since this government has been in power, with an annual growth rate of 3% or more, it has turned to a minus 4% economic growth. This is an index that you will not find throughout Europe. Negative! And I say, if you don't know what the Lermonts are telling you, maybe I could serve you the Mayor when he says, "But when it's the highest day, the sailor measures the distance and the sky side." At the SD Congress, the sky side was set up. This is a return to the past. That's clear. There they returned to the past; but they did not measure further than they ordered the sailor - if we are talking about rowing today. But you still can't measure, and that's worrying about this country. This transition - the past they have chosen in the main party - brings Slovenia to the negative side. Mr Lukšič did not remain among the stars, even though he measured on the moon. I think he crashed. It also said that you would wipe out Slovenia, that only the world was wiped out. Unfortunately, what government Members are saying today means that you can only delete. That you've already wiped out. Now I'd like to say one more thing. Minister Križanič, when he explained - I can see for myself that he did not actually represent some coordinated budget rebalancing. Even when Prime Minister Pahor explained, all the ministers were here and they looked at him intensely as if they had heard what he was saying for the first time - and the minister. Now there's only one minister left. Now that you're here, they're explaining things from the field, from practice. Previously on Secretary of Defense... I must say that she persisted for a long time, and I must commend her. She was probably waiting for Mrs Anderlič and Mrs Zalokarje to say what they kept saying on the committee and countless times that there are huge reserves at the Ministry of Defence, that there is money or something hidden there. If they say the secretary has resigned, 41 million! That's where I asked them to formulate the amendments. If you keep talking - three times they've been saying - about huge reserves, let's tell you where those huge reserves are, so that we can find out that we're going to make a deal here today, whether we take the extra money from the Ministry of Defence. Now they're hiding, they're gone. The minister was obviously waiting for someone to tell her where her ministry was with such huge reserves. Maybe there's a huge reserve for you, just to get the army out of the way. Do it if you dare! Well, above all, I was disturbed by the fact that Minister Križanič, except for the fact that he mentioned and suggested something about banks and guarantee schemes - what we will also consider - that he did not say what he would do here, what he said in Dnevnik; that our trauma was that unfortunate tycoon loans were reprogramming these loans. But this is what he says for himself, but when the measures are to be presented here to Parliament, which should result in the budget, there is nothing. It's not! See here, he notes that he has ordered the President of the Management Board of the Ljubljana Bank, Mr Veselinovic, that loans should be given to medium and small enterprises. When the journalist asked him if he had suggested this to the president of the administration, Drasko Veselinovic said, "I advised him only that the bank should increase its credit activity especially for small businesses." And then I come to the office and I find out that in the meantime he's extended these Thai loans to Valant for Istrabenz. Instead of telling the Minister of Finance what he's going to do to make this spiral of nonsense that throws us into the crater go into disaster, stop. If Veseninovich's been giving him such nonsense, he should have replaced him, even though he put him up to it 14 days ago. He said nothing about whether he would file any criminal charges against those who gave loans without insurance, which is an intrusion into the financial system, which will be paid by all people, which is what taxpayers who are listening to from the balcony today will pay dearly and will be well-known in their wallets and their offspring's wallets. He didn't say any of that. He's hiding from the public. It's different over the minister, Mr. Gaspari, it's always here - he wasn't here today! And we have two finance ministers! And, look, I noticed something else. When he represented the position of the Group of Members, Mr Rob said "it is necessary to be determined." His position, I must say, was critical of the government. While Mr Rob was a failed Prime Minister of the Government, it is clear that the current set is even less successful. That's obvious, but that came out of his words. I think he has such a feeling that as a financier, he can assess what measures the government is taking. Besides, when we talk about banks, it's worrying. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] They can't track your transition to the past, obviously. [[Laugh.]] When the minister talks about trauma and these tycoon loans, at the same time we hear that they are preparing these same suits, state banks loans to save Jankovic's boat. So, Delta and Miskovic from Belgrade. To finance the construction of this stadium and the shopping centre, our banks will eventually be able to transfer this money to a family company and the state banks will remain in need of remediation. Just as the current government is driving things, it is leading us to have banks from the taxpayer's money rescinded for the next 10 years to give up all development. It's a dangerous path. What further convinces me is that you went to school there on your side with some of the young demagogues who spoke earlier. Two of your deputies reminded me of Castro in his youth when he could speak, teach, and Castro before the Cuban people were happy with hunger. This is supposed to be the youth that won your congress. That's it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u66	Mr Jerovšek, because it is interesting what you are saying, but I would only warn you that we are talking about the balance if you are lost [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u67	They explained the samples of Castro for Slovenia. And Castro caused a famine in Cuba. These dogmatic policies that promote dogmatic communism are now in the main categories. I must say that I will directly invite Mr Levanič to give an answer - although he is not here - because he said that nothing has been accumulated in the years of fat cows. He was a year employed in that company where I was for 20 years. As a trainee myself, I began to develop a new product immediately and developed it, and many today live there and benefit from it. I didn't have any. And he was put up as an intern, and he became some kind of head of staff. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] That's part of the rebalancing because it's a waste of state money. This is a state-owned company where state money was wasted.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u68	I would ask for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u69	Mr Levanic, according to my information, was just preparing a campaign for himself and for the director who was also your party's candidate. And they're transferring money from a state-owned company to a client-type! Of course, I have to ask him that a company like Talum - and let him answer - where the money from five, six years of "fat cows" in Tallum when there was raw aluminium of 3,000 dollars and the production price is at least a thousand dollars less. One hundred thousand tonnes of production can be calculated how long it should remain every year. But as far as I've read in the newspapers, there were 6.7 million euros each year. What's the difference?Oh, my God! What's the difference?Oh, my God! And there, if the state had such directors and such companies in its own possession, then in its own account, it could not have saved, despite economic growth, because the companies had already 'put down fat cows'. And your directors. That's where your directors are. Your candidate was a CEO, too. And now I hear when the recession comes that they're scaring the workers that everything will close in a moment. But it was seven years ago, when three years of production could be paid in advance. Where's that money? And, colleagues and colleagues, the budget rebalancing is a serious matter. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] And yet I don't see your responsibility to this authority to know how to get this boat out of these waters. [[...]] I think it's important to think that you're going to set up some kind of frame that will actually know how to measure the distance and give up the "heavenly side" that you chose at your congress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u70	Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u71	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present. In view of some statements made today, allow me to be somewhat ironic about the matter myself. The balance is actually weak. Revenues are falling, expenditure is increasing, debt is doubling, budget deficits are on record; but in all this there is one comforting thought - the former government is responsible for all of this. Today, quite some have been said, and I must say, such unworthy lies, nonsense that do not belong to Parliament. One of those is the gold foreign exchange reserves that are supposed to run out or are supposed to be halved within the mandate of the previous government, to which the former Prime Minister is to be responsible. We know who is responsible for the gold reserves - Banka Slovenije. Over two thirds of the previous term of office was your current member of the Government of Mitja Gaspari, and go ask him whether the reserves are really smaller or not and talk to him about it. Look back not only until 2004, but a few years ago. And in all those years ago, during the 12-year rule of the LDS, we had always had a positive high economic growth deficit. It's an extraordinary deficit! That's what management was like back then. In the last period, however, they did not hold the claim that the State had made a significant commitment or that the indebtedness of the State had increased. - the debt has decreased. From 28% of GDP to 23% of GDP; however, debt in other sectors of the population has increased and so on. So in 2009, we are going from €eighty-six million in surplus 2008 to a billion two hundred million in deficits, which would not even be so controversial if this gap were used wisely and usefully, given the situation in which we are entering. Unfortunately, the balance does not provide answers to these challenges. Not only is it bad and unrealistic, but it is also based on items that do not exist in marriage, so it is also illegal. Unfortunately, our predictions of six months ago are coming true. Remember, six months ago we spoke about the fact that it is true that the European Commission's forecast for Slovenia is that one of the few countries that will record positive economic growth in 2009, but we then said that these forecasts are based on the assumption that appropriate measures will be taken and taken by the Government and this National Assembly, which we found three months ago, four months ago that they are not. And then three, four months ago, we said that, given that there are no such measures, we share a great deal of concern and concern that we will actually go into recession in Slovenia. And this happened to us before we could or could have expected or predicted. Slovenia had pleasant starting opportunities. During the period when some of the countries surrounding us were already deep in recession, Slovenia still had positive economic growth. The timely adoption of decisions and acts at government and law level could distance us from these situations that we are facing now. Unfortunately, however, this rebalancing with which the Government is now coming to the National Assembly does not feel that actual crisis situations are exacerbating or exacerbating, because interestingly, with a big talk about savings in consumption and wages, it is only done with three, four consumers. For all others, the item increases, only the State Council, the National Assembly, the Office of the President of the Government, only thus the wage item decreases, everywhere else the wage item increases. Consumption is also increasing. In a wide range of areas, spending is increasing, which is effective, which we already know will not be and in one area is foreseen for expenditure which is not based on applicable legislation, which is illegal. Such a budget or a rebalancing is not in accordance with the legislation in force, I am talking about 50 million euros in investments in the public telecommunications network, which cannot be spent in 2009. Why can't he be? In view of the fact that the Law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network is currently in force, which states in Article 11: "In order to implement this Act, the Republic of Slovenia shall, by a special contract, transfer free of charge to the Slovenian Compensation Company 653.548 shares of Telekom". That was done. "The transferred shares are part of the financing of the return on investments and the associated costs under this law." So the basis for payment is these securities. And the last paragraph: "If the source of funding referred to in the first paragraph is not sufficient, the Government shall provide additional assets" - the State's financial or real assets for the payment of these investments rather than liquid assets from the budget. This €50 million expenditure is fictitious and illegal, but obviously the government is not concerned, it is clearly an ambition that the debt of this country, even fictitiously, is as high as possible; to show the people that the crisis is very deep and that the belts must be sealed. Unworthy. The second item is based on the Law on subsidisation of reduced working time, which provides for EUR 230 million 400,000 in expenditure in 2009. 230 million 400,000 expenses! This means that, in 2009, 460,000 employees should be mobilised to reduce working time. That's impossible! By 10 March, following a statement by the representative of the Ministry of Finance at the meeting of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, the request was made by 40,000 employees or 14.4 million euros. It's 230 million 400,000 miles away. About 200 million fictitiously planned expenditure. Why? If we are saying that it is a crisis, that we need to save money, that we need to take care of sustainable social security and so on - why, I ask you! Is about a quarter of a billion euros reserved somewhere, parked to be redeployed at the time of implementation, which the Government has the power of the budget? Do not allow yourself to think that this is intended for compensation to those who speculated at the time of the independence of Slovenia; I will not allow myself to speculate by predicting that this amount is foreseen for the pensions of those generals who are now waking up, who were in the ranks of the Yugoslav People's Army and attacked Slovenia; I will not allow myself to speculate that this expenditure is intended for anything else! But I am talking about the facts, and the fact is, in the balance, a quarter of a billion euros in fictitious expenditure is planned. And if I add up - all amendments, respected colleagues and colleagues that have been submitted, all of them, from the first to the last - are for 123 million euros. This means that only real planning can cover all needs in 2009 and remains for the Dragan Supplement. In this amendment of the 123 million is also the amount foreseen for the Dragan Supplement to those with the lowest income and the lowest pensions. We are talking about 250,000 Slovenian citizens and citizens! So there is no obstacle that this could not be done this year, irrespective of the crisis situation, if only we planned properly, honestly, responsibly and in accordance with the legislation in force. I, in all the debates so far, have been fundamental to these two questions, but I have repeated these questions 20 times, I have not received an answer and I do not expect it today. On the other hand, we have warned and warned that there is still a decline in funds on those items that can actually mean this development paradigm, which is a leap from some programmes, not because of the crisis, but because of everything else - they will no longer have the opportunity to implement, to jump into programmes that will be able to start in this period. But what's happening to us? The European fund is falling by €13 million and the European Union fund is being invested by €52 million at the same time. Funds are being cut off from a number of projects, which mean providing one normal infrastructure base for normal operation in local environments and which have already been launched. Drainage and treatment of waste water and complete supply of drinking water - Municipality of Tržič for 3,380,000 euro less. Full protection of the soil of the Ptujsko field for 2 million - the whole item goes out! [[...]] Dolenjska Waste Management Centre - the entire item is deleted. The draining and cleaning of the central Sava basin - the whole item is deleted. Water supply of the White Land, the whole item is deleted. Don't talk about the papers not being ready! If there is a paper problem, let the responsible change the mode of regulation that determines the plaza of this paperwork so that the projects can be implemented, and everything will be fine. This is an answer to the argument that the papers are not ready. But not that they need to be fixed first, but then we can make these investments. It is also interesting that in all this talk about how investment funds are increasing, investment funds are being reduced on very important items. In the area of transport for 25 million euros and so on. Of which, in the field of road infrastructure, EUR 17,200,000. In the area of promoting efficient use and renewable energy sources, resources are being halved. We're running out of funds! From 27 to 13 million. In competitiveness programmes, 12 million. In promoting housing construction, they are reduced by a bad million. On scholarships for 6 million and half. In the field of health care for 7 million. Clearly, however, we are a very vulnerable country, very threatened regardless of the general estimates that it is not so, because in intelligence and security activities, funds are increasing by over a million Euros. There is no answer to these dilemmas, ladies and gentlemen, or I am afraid that the ruling cannot give them. You can't! Because this balance doesn't reflect the situation we're in. This rebalancing should in fact be a challenge for Slovenia's developmental leap. It's so much easier because it's easier to do things like this in crisis situations. This wagon has been delayed and the consequences of this act will be felt not only in this but also in future mandates. And one more thing. If the global recession is responsible for all these situations, the global situation, then I hope that the measures taken in other countries will take effect as soon as possible. One of these already works in our Revos, and the other will be in the coming months. [[...]] I hope that the measures taken around us will move this boat in the right direction as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. Allow me first to give the word to France Tsukati, who was with me and asked me to do so, for he later succeeds me in the presidency.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. The budget balance is a budget response, a change of budget to changed circumstances. And the more the circumstances are changed, I admit, the more difficult it is to prepare it to be coordinated, that it is good, that it is development-oriented, long-term and similar. The balance, like the budget, is also the work of the human hands and reflects the people who have been preparing it, also reflects the philosophy of thinking that has been conducive to these figures. In fact, it is about philosophy, where to take, where to give, because income is predictable in one way or another, and expenditure is partly manageable. And if we look at how the ministries responded to the savings, I have to say that a number of ministries will be without coffee this year. See, the Ministry of Transport has a budget cut by 2 million, the Ministry of Health has a budget decrease by 7 million, the Ministry of Defence has a reduced budget by 41 and a half million. Interesting. It is also interesting where the budget in the military is being reduced in particular. It decreases by 42% in the modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the basic development programmes of the Slovenian Armed Forces, even by 42%, by 44 million. The budget in the Ministry of Public Administration is also falling by 45 million, that is by 23%. At the Human Resources Management site, even 44%. Then I also have a list of other ministries where it's growing. And if I see here, say, in the administration, a 45 million reduction and I see in which ministries the budget has increased significantly, I can say that Mrs Krebs is not aggressive enough or not enough at the top of the individual party. Well, let's at least go to some ministries that have substantially increased the budget. The Ministry of the Environment and Space of Mr Erjavac has increased the budget by 51 million, with an extremely important chapter on managing the field of efficient use of renewable energy sources, where it is a basic environmental project, rationalising energy consumption, finding alternative resources and so on, for a project that we should and should have already started in very good shape, and is falling from 27 million to 13 million, more than half. However, Mr Erjavec has a larger budget of 51 million. Well, let's go see the other president or the president of the coalition party, Mrs. Kresalov. The Ministry of the Interior is increasing the budget by 28 million. Well, in order not only to do so, we must also touch on the basis of fairness in higher education, science and technology, otherwise Mr Golobic would have resented that we have bypassed it. It raises the budget by EUR 66.5 million, mostly at the expense of technological development, from 40 million to 87 million, according to 117%. That sounds very good, but the approach to the allocation of funds for technological development is likely to be the same, and it is such that it leaves the Minister with great freedom to allocate funds. Tomorrow we will adopt a law on a guarantee scheme where the state provides guarantees to release this investment cramp. The Legislative and Legal Service reminds us that in Article 4 of this law, which we will adopt tomorrow, the Government takes the right to regulate matters which should be regulated by law. The legal and legal service reminds us that this law is unconstitutional because it leaves the Government great freedom to set criteria for who it will give something to. And if we continue to do so, then we know why those items that will give the government and the individual minister power, because having the money, means having the power and having the resources freely, means a lot of power; then we know why Mr Golobič has put together 66 and a half million more budget and of that only 47 million more budget for technological development, which the state will assign to what it considers to be worthy of. It is interesting, however, that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption also has a very large increase in resources in this crisis, ranging from 600,000 to 1 million 300,000. This is said to raise the budget by more than 100% and especially for wages. I mean, saving is an extremely important approach in the economic crisis. Where to invest, how to invest is also important. And some ministries are going to have the coffee they had now, so to speak, and other ministries have poured double coffee with double cream. If this cream means the freedom of the individual minister, it means, and this is essential, a new field of great corruption. But, of course, then the Commission must have more resources to prevent corruption! I want to know how this story's gonna go next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Lois Posedel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! A few minutes ago, I would almost like to be among the audience on the balcony, which during the performance of my colleague Jerovška could have got up and gone out, probably thinking what is too much, but it is too much. And it is really too much in these really difficult times to discuss our crisis, about such an important document as the rebalance in the way it is spoken in parables, to declare and to deal with another party's Congress and with individuals. I think the situation is very serious and unfortunately we are not aware that it is known that Slovenians can come together when it is very bad. However, some have not yet felt that it is very severe. Unfortunately in Slovenia, only those who are already below the poverty threshold or those who are difficult to give at the end of the month with beginning and vice versa feel this. And that's why, at this point, the mayor and the MP are both on strike, but it might be good if one of the other Members who can say that there is no crisis or that we can otherwise solve it so that the mayor, like his colleague from Slovenj Gradac, who showed plastic what the crisis is like on the ground, how it affects the person most when it shows up in primary school children, in kindergartens, and that we are probably the first mayor to notice it. Probably not someone who is practically the whole period of the new Slovenia in Parliament and can discuss such an important document as the crisis balance, thinks about ghosts, about Castro and so on. I think it would be good if we just looked at the size of the crisis in this debate. Because it won't be better for you when the crisis gets worse. Because obviously some of you are enjoying this presentation of the current situation, because it is difficult to understand these comparisons, which are being heard and with what satisfaction is being counted and announced that with each month this new government is so many and so many new unemployed, with each month this new government is having less economic growth and is thus raising the previous mandate. I think it's so irresponsible and so distasteful. Above all, it shows that we are not aware of the situation in which we are and that we are not aware of the fact that 100 million is less than every month from that economy that is exhausted and that nothing helps beautifying when someone has missed, either in the previous term or in the first months of this mandate, but that it is necessary to step together. Not in the way of almost hyperactivity of the former Minister of Economy, who is so innovative and active in the new investments of laws that are attractive to entrepreneurship, but which are not feasible at this time, at the time of this crisis. The public finances needed for a stable country would be further affected. That's why people like this debate. I'm sure maybe some people on the balcony would stay and listen to this kind of talk. In view of the rest of the time, it is likely that much will still be involved, but the budget composition is certainly a feat under such changed conditions or at least unknowingly difficult to do. Therefore, it cannot be congratulated, but it can at least commend the composers and those who are almost carrying out the impossible mission. With such small resources, make the budget rebalance so that it is balanced and that it will allow for some normal functioning of the country and it is so difficult to get out of this exaggerated budget for 2009 all those items that did not have a real basis, not in the documentation, not in the procedures. These are the cases that are evident. Whoever digs into all the material clearly sees that the consequences of the 2009 budget are also a period of pre-election promises for our mayors, a period of investment for our contractors and their subcontractors. And that this must be cleaned up at the moment because of the crisis and because of the smaller resources. Nothing will be wrong if a sidewalk, a road, or some other investment waits for times that will be different from today. I admire some of the opposition's colleagues and their performances. They are very convincing, just as they were when you plastically showed that then Governor Mitja Gaspari with some tables, with some grades he sent to Brussels, muds this beautiful Slovenia. These were already assessments of what could happen in the event of inappropriate and improper action. And that was your assessment, and that was your vote back then on the candidate for governor. Just like it's been four years today, there's no going back. This is nothing wrong, but it is necessary to look forward, but not in the way that this strong economic growth is still being sung today, and it is during this period that the opportunities have been missed and the heritage is actually poor and the condition of this country at the start of the crisis, which some have not recognised since it was already here, that it has started at all. At the outset, our Group leader said that we would support this balance, probably with some belief that it is not the last. However, this does not indicate a bad government, a bad finance ministry, but a crisis situation around us, in the world and in our country. And from this making political capital is probably inappropriate, although I'm sure you'll still be using it for that very purpose. I am convinced that in these limited options in this budget balance, what has already been demonstrated and what is needed is, therefore, the means to ensure the implementation of measures to mitigate this crisis, the expenditure on subsidies and resources to promote the small economy and, in particular, investment in faster development. Perhaps someone can also afford to compare and speculate on what will happen to funds at the Ministry of Development. Probably with such malnutrition as this ministry, such an increase in funds is too small for our economy. That is why I think this balance is a reflection of the current situation. I would like this balance to be maintained by the end of the year and to ensure that we end the year that way, but I'm afraid not, but I want it to be. Because I come from the Celje region alone and we have also visited the Minister for Regional Development today, and our region has 32 municipalities - very much shows the image of Slovenia: from very developed parts or municipalities to less developed ones. And the simple fact is that the least developed one will never be as developed as it is greatest. And that probably every smallest congregation or every one of you can't have its own technology park or craft zone every congregation doesn't have its own university, and that here, in these debates and appetites, it is also necessary to have real measure and sobriety. And that much of what was in the 2009 budget is due to this overblownness and this non-selection of projects that were involved, without being adequately equipped either with projects or with the necessary land and everything else. We can all agree here and there is no shame that there is much to do in the use of these funds, especially in Europe, but probably not overnight. This is not a good one, which you colleagues have already carried out in the previous term. Your shortcut always comes back in worse shape. If projects are not appropriate, if there is no documentation, if there is no authorisation, then this shall be returned. You know, at times, some even overstepped, even Berlusconia, who had just now established that everyone for a small building permit could write for themselves, you did so in some congregations in this way. And such projects are also within, for which it is right that they are not in the balance sheet or are still in the balance sheet, and it would be right to also be excluded in the future, because they are not necessarily necessary for the time we live in, and that unfortunately, the need in this social area will certainly be greater when the budget revenues continue to decline, and you can also count with pleasure that this is the result of a new government, but this is the result of reality. And this reality, on the other hand, will increase with the needs of this social work, not for new jobs, but for the preservation of these jobs. That's why I think it's possible right now. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr. Majhenič has the floor. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] [[...]] You're not done yet, are you? Mr. Posedel, would you like to keep talking? Please correct yourself if it is or is [[...]] [[...]] Mr Posedel, can I give you a word later, after Mr. Majhenič? Mr. Tiny, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, the House of Honor! We've been planning funds for short-term subsidies. Instead of €60, workers will receive much less. The State is charging subsidies with taxes and contributions, EUR 60 is the gross amount from which a good share of the country is taken back. Contributions and taxes have to be paid, and individuals will receive 30% to 50% less, depending on the level of pay and relief. Of course, it would suggest amending the sub-legislative acts in order to exempt the State from taxes and contributions and to treat them as solidarity aid that is free from these burdens. It makes no sense for the State to order aid, and then, from the amount, it calls for refunds and contributions, thereby reducing subsidies by half. What kind of help is it if you take the money back? Were you also planning from the money you receive back to a patch of the budget hole, or is it possible at the expense of such a policy to cover an even greater number of aid needed? We're making the same mistake as the Italians. We are helping banks and the economy, but we are forgetting the development of tourism, which will pay you back in the long run. The money that's planned is definitely not enough. The management structure in Slovenia circulates from business to business as a rental structure without relation to the companies they run and the country is essentially the owner of these companies. We will give banks guarantees and money, including those who have credited managers' purchases without real insurance. The living case is Istrabenz, where the liquidation value is zero. Poor management loans put the state and the banks in a hopeless position, reflecting the acquisition of credits from smaller firms such as small and medium-sized enterprises, because banks are afraid that large loans, so called management loans, will make their situation worse, so they decided to help resolve these investments again; of course, without the help of the state, this is not going to work. If it does not help the economy to get out of trouble, there will be problems with public sector payments, as saving does not bring any good. State cash registers are filled with taxes paid by consumers. It is a crisis, and it will especially affect young people. Companies are in a major crisis due mainly to poor management decision. This is a lack of knowledge from managers and supervisory councils, which is why replacements are justified. There was a crisis of ownership and lack of knowledge of ownership capital management. The crisis will be a survival test for a number of companies. It is underinvested in development, but it is only exploiting the current potential in the economy, but it is not long-term views and development, and that is what we are facing. The relationship between work and capital needs to be changed. But it will be necessary to give up the turbo to the profits. Capitalism is in crisis and it will be necessary to change the thinking of exploitation and money grabbing, but to invest more in development and knowledge. It will be necessary to follow the path of change and to adapt to the situation when drawing up the next balance. Slovenia is the most corrupt country, the most corruption occurs between public and private partnerships and in public institutions. Surveillance is insufficient, but when irregularities are detected, the evidence is long-lasting and unconclusioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr Posede is not here, then Mr Yuri Franco has the floor. Please. Do you have a replica? Allow Mr. Franco, Mr. Jerovšek will speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Posede appointed me and protested that I had also used the parables. But, Mr Posedel, as far as I know, unfortunately he didn't listen to the Prime Minister. And in his performance, Mr President of the Government operated primarily on metaphors and parables, but he was not specific enough to make his indicators clear and so on. I think that then the man from the opposition is also allowed to argue with the same vat, especially because the opposition is only to evaluate and analyse and plus this metaphor is poetic because the President of the Government spoke mainly about the boat, about the joint rowing, about sailors and sterns and so on and this metaphor that "when the highest day of the sailor is measured away and the celestial side" is often used. That is why I expected the President of the Government to measure "further", which means that he will make a real assessment of the situation. Mr. Possession, these things are disturbing. Only concrete was the President of the Government when he said that the rebalancing was a second package of measures, how and what measures were not explained. I don't know. But it would be good to have an explanation. The most powerful measure of this authority and of these governments, which is announced, is compensation for the removals, which will probably receive 30,000 compensation for the unemployed, which the current authorities are intensively creating - the unemployed. And they're probably not getting unemployment benefits because they're going to go somewhere else. And a lot more concrete, Mr Posedel, should be said, so I believe you are disturbed by these things when I also asked you to tell us how our government is dealing with what banks are doing. The Minister of Finance cannot find out how much money the Director of the State Bank has, what rewards there are - no one must know. The American prizes - and they also have parliamentary rights and everything - we know immediately, and Obama is successful and he has reduced the prizes dramatically. Ones, we're listening today, they're gonna pay the prizes back. Did our minister or our president say to return the prizes in these times of crisis? He didn't say because they landed those awards in real pockets. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u80	Mr Jerovšek, time for replica is up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u81	Yeah, that's all. And none of this our government is capable of doing [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u82	The replica has expired, Mr Jerovšek, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u83	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u84	Mr Posedel, can you continue the discussion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Well, at this point, I would like to conclude this debate, and I would only suggest to my colleague Jerovšku: I am more likely to listen to your reciting of songs and thinking about Castro than to the flooding and lies about compensations that probably don't belong during the budget debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thank you. Well, Mr. Yuri, now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u87	Thank you, Vice President. I didn't understand whether it was a replica of President Obama or Fidel Castro. I didn't exactly understand if we were to continue the conversation, it would be easier. By the way, they're not hungry in Cuba, they have a lot of shortages, but they're not hungry, because I've been there a few times. But no matter what, of course we don't want the Cuban situation. And the crisis ahead of us, of course, brings us closer to those scenarios we don't want and never wanted. Speaking of budget rebalancing, of course, I would rather sit on the opposition's side because it is always easier to face this issue with the opposition's perspective. No, thanks for now. I'll stay on the ruling side. The fact is that we are talking about redistribution of funds and also the reduction of funds, so, in the spirit of anti-recession measures. In doing so, we must take into account a spirit that can be called the spirit of solidarity. Solidarity, which must be directed in particular to those most threatened in times of recession. But when we talk about recession and crisis threats, we always have to defend ourselves with demagogogous temptations, and when you're in opposition, you're more vulnerable to demagogicism, and sometimes it's easier to leave out things that we can buy at the first ball, and we can all agree on some conclusions. I must be honest with you that I agree with a lot of what has been said today from the opposition's sent-off benches. When I listened to you, Mr Cuckoo, I had similar concerns about why some of us take away why we give to some. The fact is, if it were up to me, I would sacrifice the military budget the most. I think it's possible to draw on basic development programmes for more useful things - I hope the Minister doesn't listen to me now, because if I do, I will be the target again. But the fact is, I hope that sooner or later we will find some additional funds from an item of unclear business called Patricia. In doing so, the story has not yet been concluded; it is a story that lasts from the previous mandate and when we finally realize that we may not really need all this military technology, we will get some useful and financial benefits. But this is a chapter, of course, for another moment, we're not going to save him today. The fact is, I was a little surprised by some numbers, but I didn't understand something; in fact, what is the problem with spending more money on research and technological development in times of crisis. This I think is one of the key and bravest steps in the fight against recession. So I object to the argument that this would be something controversial. I mean, if we can't cut funds somewhere, that's right in terms of research and technological development. This can equip us to take further steps against the crisis and against the recession and to promote the economy. If the opposition were present a few weeks ago at an interesting lecture on biosynthesis and applications of science and technology in the economy, we might understand why I speak this way and why we have such an item in favour of technological development. I agree that it is incomprehensible to reduce resources - and therefore I will be among those who will support the proposed amendment in providing programmes for the efficient use of energy and renewable resources. This is a chapter where I don't really understand the government's move. Half the resources because we're talking about the same thing as technological development. This is a means of rationalising energy and promoting renewable resources. And I agree with those who challenge such logic and such a decision, including NGOs, environmental organisations. I know that the amendment has been adopted to return EUR 3 million to this cash register, and then there is another amendment that takes away EUR 700,000. Well, when we vote on the amendments, I will explain once again why I believe that the funds allocated to these items need to be increased. If you'll allow me at the end a few more general assessments of the responsibility for the recession. We all refer to the globality of this problem. The fact is that the boys of the crisis first appeared in the heart of capitalism, that is, in the United States, and that they first faced the need for measures that smell even after socialism, when the state once again takes the initiative and stops, restricts the wild capitalism that was created on the basis of not classical liberalism, but speculative financial flows. And this unsupervised speculative financial economy was the main disease not only in the United States of America, but in the globalized world. That's where it started. The countries most intertwined and associated with these flows first felt the effects of this crisis. Slovenia, which was traditional, which was somewhat more archaic from the point of view of banking, felt the effect of this crisis a little later. But today these effects are here, we face them, and we have to deal with them responsibly. Fortunately, we are a slightly more manageable society, we are a smaller country. Our economic system, our economic fabric is actually more manageable. We all know each other, and perhaps we can agree first on a redistribution of interests, as they can do in large systems, such as the United States of America. But they have Obama. Obama is serious, Obama has faced a financial crisis with some certain moves. Last but not least, this conflict with the AIG speculators has proved that some ethics in politics are still needed. The moral issue in politics in these times is still important and I therefore hope that Slovenia will also be able to enter a period where the ethical dimension of politics and economy is again at the forefront. When we talk about the financial crisis, we forget that it was not only created in America, but it is also our problem. For what happens to our companies in Slovenia and to the companies that were giants before yesterday, the giants of our economy, proves that there are clear responsibilities. That's what we've been alerting some of us from the very beginning, and we've been "fascinating" the obvious that we're predicting cleaners. Immediately after the elections, if you remember, I warned and some of us warned about what is happening in some companies with large state capital: in Luka Koper, in Intereuropa, in Istrabenz, in Hit and so on - if I stay with my region, Primorski. Yesterday we were struck by news that he resigned from the president of the Intereurope administration, the largest transport company and the largest logistics company in Slovenia, Mr Lovšin. You know what Loshin was like. Lochin was a political cadre. It was named in the time of the previous government, despite warnings that such personnel would lead to the collapse of these companies. They didn't pay attention to us at the time or immediately after the elections. But it all happened so fast, we didn't expect it. We have requested a review, we have requested the work of the Court of Auditors, we have requested the intervention of the Kosovo Commission. You didn't have to. Look, the crisis has come and if there's anything positive about this crisis, it's also to clean up everything that was actually ineffective, which was harmful. And there was a huge damage, 140 million went to Russia, some money was said to have gone, at least after writing and according to the media, to Liechtenstein. I ask, and this will be my next initiative: What can this country do to prevent all that corrupt money flowing from Slovenia into tax havens in Liechtenstein or the Cayman Islands? Because there is one of the key keys to today's recession and today's crisis. And this applies, you know, not just to one political side, to all political options. This probably happened in the previous government and in the previous government and so on. But there was such a concentration in the previous government. I will not say that this is the reason for the recession and crisis, but it certainly has accelerated what is happening now and what we are actually facing. So that when we talk about rebalancing and when we talk about budgets, we must not forget that a system must be put in place, a mechanism to prevent speculative transactions. These took place beyond any supervision and beyond the public interest. This is a key problem that we will not solve with a rebalance, but we will not solve these problems by reducing resources where we can provide a framework for development, it is science, it is technology, it is renewable resources, it is an effective use of energy. I also do not understand how it is possible in this situation and in this state of health to reduce the resources of the Ministry of Health. I mean, it's something weird! Otherwise, I understand and mostly support the efforts of the Government and also the framework of this rebalancing. But with some amendments, I will insist, and I will try to enforce what seems appropriate to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u88	Thank you. Mrs. Župevc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm sorry that my opposition colleague, who is obviously a "fan" of the new US president and of the US administration, is no longer with us. Perhaps Mr Jerovšek did not notice another thing that American President Obama said. He said somehow that it doesn't matter whether the government is large or small, expensive or cheap, that it is effective. And this is also an important message from the new American President Obama. I must say for myself that with a number of things, with a number of warnings given today by the opposition, I can even agree. On the other hand, there were so many floods and accusations. Only one really bothered me, that is, "Your government is a particular failure of the Slovenian economy." I have a feeling that some people are enjoying the fact that we're not doing well. And if we do any worse, and when we do any worse, they will enjoy it even more, and they will be even more happy in this House to thump over the measures taken by the Government. The fact is that in this hall, some on the left and others on the right, we will never come to one in what the legacy of the former government is. That's a fact. But it doesn't even matter. What matters is where we are today. And today's situation is bad, it's worrying. So enjoy talking about these bad, worrying predictions and situations in which we are today - this is really sad! And it was said - the Commission's anti-corruption line was particularly exposed. Those who sit on the other side were four years old, and especially in recent months, full of mouths about the fight against corruption. At the principle level, we all agree - this needs to be addressed. But you know, there is also a need to provide some funds for this! And if there are no funds, the prevention won't work on its own. The concern for the public finances that the opposition is hearing today is really pleased with me. But on the other hand, this opposition is making laws that add to the burden of public finances. That's it. Besides, you know what they say?Oh, my God! "If it isn't, the army won't take it." And I think everyone understands that.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u90	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. Well, hello, everyone here. When a man reads the balance of the budget and listens to today's debate, I firmly believe that all of us Members, as well as the Government and, of course, the opposition and coalition Members, would be most pleased if the indicators of the rebalancing were actually sustained by the end of the year and that this matter should not be rectified. Of course, there are also some activities that are urgently needed to revive our economy, and above all some investments that will stimulate new jobs or, I will say, even cause a smaller crisis. If that is the case, though, it comes to the realization that some in this country would strongly want this crisis to be significantly greater than it is, only to show how they are right or how they are wrong. And we're going to direct positions. How important it is to provide some money for local communities as well - and we have provided it. This average, if I stop a little by her side, will in some way help the congregations to cope with problems this year. However, if I recall that even this year it is necessary to change the entire municipal spatial plans only because the previous government or the previous parliament has passed a new law on the definition or spatial regulation, and this law also prevents the so-called dispersal of construction in the non-urban area, which is causing us great problems and additional financial resources. While I am already in the countryside, I am going to touch the Ministry of Agriculture, particularly the part of the projects that talk about rural development. In this item, I found an item that says "Sophination of the Multi-purpose Hall in Ajdovščina." Otherwise, I ask whether the municipality of Ajdovščina is a rural municipality in order to obtain money from this fund, or whether some other municipalities that build these multi-purpose halls have been incorrectly informed that they can also apply within the Ministry of Agriculture for Rural Development for co-financing. In a way, I am pleased that within the Ministry of the Economy for the Development of Tourism there has been a rise in the line, because I firmly believe that with new jobs in tourism we can actually give new quality, but in particular also alleviate social distress in some areas. However, I am very concerned about the position within the Ministry of Environment and Space, which talks about the rehabilitation of medium and smaller beaches. We all know that part of northeast Slovenia or even part of the country was affected by these beaches after this year's turn and also by rainfall. This item, which is intended for 2 million and a few euros, would be substantially too small. I therefore now call on the 2010 budget planners to correct this item or to make up for it in that part for next year. In any case, I am also the one who would be very happy to have more money to maintain state and local roads. In any event, the priority of this rebalancing must be to alleviate the social distress of those who lose their jobs, especially those who will be at the brink of survival. Therefore, even if we have to sacrifice a sidewalk or a road to make our people live better, we need to adopt a balance. If we also put some money in municipal infrastructure instead to preserve a job, especially a new job, of course, we should not be harmed by this money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u92	Thank you. Mr. Puksic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, ministers, representatives of the government! The consideration of the balance of the budget for this year at this time of crisis is, in fact, something special. That’s what you’ve been alerting or sounding from both sides of the hall. Some of you have also embarked on the search for the reasons why we came here, not only because of the global recession, but also because of domestic reasons for such a crisis. One of you wanted to turn the blame on an ex-government who was four years old. Personally, however, I think that the result of this, or the payment that came after 18 years of the independent state, is also a system of privatisation. Colleagues and colleagues! In the privatisation system we have wasted so much Elan, There, Hydromontage, Agis, Metal and so on in a very simple and short way. And then in the privatisation system, we created some so-called tycoons and some individuals who are today in this country "pig rich". And to those who are so "pig-rich", unfortunately we do not hope or hope - hand to heart, our government did not hope for all or hoped to step on fingers; something began, but in my opinion it was too late. Even now, unfortunately, you do not hope to do so, even though the Minister of Finance publicly admits and writes that trauma is an unfortunate tycoon loan. I would expect from this government, or I expect from the Government President's announcement in the third package of measures, that he would also have a proposal to have certain companies known to have been robbed at the expense of taxpayers. By the way, why the taxpayers? Also because we have saved state banks, Ljubljana, Maribor, with tax money, and these same banks with tax money have, of course, helped to create these tycoons, individuals. This is how I expect in this package of Prime Minister of the Government a proposal for a law on certain nationalisations of certain companies and amendments to the tax law, which will clearly state that all these rich people must present the origin of the property, so to speak, or at least prove that the property is paid for - either at home or abroad, in short, in the European Community. If they have paid the benefits, then the property in the back is also legally acquired, if they do not have it, they should simply be seized because they then stole it and if they stole it, they must not take it. Why am I so sharp about this? Colleagues and colleagues because I know, otherwise, we all know what it means to lose 100 or 200 euros in wages. Actually, that's not much for us. Do you realize what it means for hundreds, thousands of people who have lost? With 400 euros - not for 100 or 200 euros, they fell to zero euros! Or two, three months of going to work, giving them relatives, or children, or anyone, mainly for bringing them to work, they don't get it. That's why I'm so rigorous to these tycoons, to this place, the national place that happened. If we have heard about national interest in previous years, we can therefore today ask ourselves about this national place. But ambassadors and Members, do not speak of who and what and how; or four years of the government of Janshea, or twelve years of Drnovšek, Robb and other governments! It doesn't matter! I agree with a colleague who said that this is not important; it is important that we agree here in Parliament that this is the end! Let's get this over with! Not because of us, not because of political parties, not because of how one "passes over" - I don't know when some other elections will be in the elections. Because of this, people who are now truly totally at the end of the day are actually desperate. They're the reason we have to do something. Did you hear the Red Cross call last night? Did you hear the call from Karitas? I mean, really, things need to be taken seriously because we are really in a really critical situation. Secondly, what I expect from the distinguished Mr President of the Government, I expect that the Government will now and immediately prepare calls to which we will apply the municipalities for both European funds and development funds in accordance with - I don't know - Article 26, the municipalities and so on so that we can also prepare these investments so that we can make calls and do so. I have already proposed to the Committee on Local Self-Government, in view of the fact that no calls have yet been made, that the deadline of 31 October should be extended to 31 December, when situations need to be submitted by the municipality and so on, in order to extend that period to 31 December. In fact, it is only because it is simply impossible, after a call for proposals for co-financing of certain investments, to carry out such an invitation to tender, to make an investment and to send work or share into the country. On the other hand, I am concerned that the Ministry of Environment and Space has reduced funds for development plans. This is not good for the country. If we're going to make investments, if we're going to move forward, I agree, it's just investment and development. Look, I can say in person, because I know a lot of congregations that are also in this month, this month or are now dealing with the budgets for this year, or are already quite investment-oriented. More! In some congregations, they were even able to listen to this poverty by providing in the congregation budgets and by giving up, as colleagues say, what sidewalk, public lighting and so on and by providing funds for a free meal for children. So, at least here, at this point, let's say, in some municipalities, we don't make any differences, whether parents have or don't, because I don't just belong to those who don't have jobs, even those who also have very low incomes, because they've also reduced their incomes, so they can't afford to have 16 euros a month for lunch - or to have this child without lunch. These are real problems, and that is why I really urge you, colleagues and colleagues, to take this seriously. Why was I talking about nationalization earlier? You know, we can't keep our eyes closed that it's the fault of those who have sold as much as Dear Portorož, Kolinski, Istrabenz, Laško, Mercator and so on under these lights as they are today. They just have to answer! Finally, even those who could or could make profits, at least EUR 70 million of konjunctural profit in aluminium in Tallum, because it is a state-owned company, they showed only 10%. Let's see where that difference went. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u95	Nice greeting, Mr. Vice President! Dear Minister, ministers and all other colleagues present! For the first time, we are taking part in the adoption of the state budget, and some of them are behind me at the local level, and we are always aware that the adoption of this document is the most responsible work either by the municipal council or in this case by Parliament in the current year. Such acceptance requires serious and responsible debate, and perhaps today there is something different in between. I want to be who I am. We are correcting the 2009 budget, which was adopted in the second half of 2007 in some entirely different circumstances with different starting points, which have been well changed by the changed world environment and to a large extent a head start. It is true that a number of measures have been taken in 2008 that could have been liked, but were not taken at the same time at a time when someone expected such a changed environment this year. I am also afraid that the budget or the balance of the budget that we are adopting today is on the wrong assumption, because those who have been preparing this budget have calculated, as we have heard, to 6%, 7% growth in 2007, but today we are talking about a 4% reduction in gross social income, which means that these starting points are quite different. I am afraid that today the seriousness of this situation, which Slovenia is in, is only aware of in those companies that are failing their orders, and the directors who have to make the most popular, which is to think about forgiving workers; and that those who need this money are being spent, to this realization that this is a very serious situation, we have not yet come up with it. This reality was pointed out to us yesterday and told us by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis, and development and this data always comes with a few months' delay. I fear that the data that will follow will only be worse and that this trend will be different in the coming months. Our export-oriented economy, which exports 70% to markets that are still in a deeper crisis than we are, is very sensitive and thus our entire economy. And if we are aware that 62% of the revenue represents value added tax, income tax and corporate income tax, we can very seriously and anxiously ask ourselves if we are in the process of adopting the balance on the right items and will see it in the future. As far as the expenditure side is concerned, I agree with the need to increase these items, which have also been increased - social areas. Once again: colleague Žerjav said that I have asked 26 times about these 230 million for reduced working hours, and I think that, as colleague Cernac has already pointed out today, this 150 to 180 million after my assessment of the less used resources will just come into balance. But I'm afraid there's something else wrong with this budget. With regard to measures that increase funds in the economy and higher education, if I had a word in the composition of this balance, I would leave more resources for the technological development of the economy and not transfer it to higher education. I hope that the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology will devote these funds more directly to the economy and less to various institutions. For I fear that along this path, as we all know, we have been warned many times that through our science this impulse will slowly pass into the economy and that this is the right direction - on the long lines. However, I fear that it would be better if we could put these funds within the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I also share the opinion of many who point out that in this budget there is a significant shortfall in savings and that in the budget, which has as much as 40% of this budget's labour costs and costs, this is 3.5 billion resources - these are the key items. However, when we see the effects of the rebalancing, at material costs, the Government has proposed 24 million reductions in material costs and 29 million increases in wages. These are the two items around which they will and we will have to imagine the most. If we take this point of view that this budget was built in 2007 on the basis of 7% growth, today we have a 4% reduction in gross social income, the spread is 11%, it is said that we on these two items are at a spread of just 350 million. And that's the cruel activity we're all going to have to face. I expect from the Government in this area very structural measures, which will also bring this to life, but otherwise the increased debt forecast for Balance 2 in 2009 will not do us much good or will have to be done sooner than before to ensure that our economic and financial picture in the country is not too weak. I miss activities in the field of European funds. I also share the opinion of those of you who have already warned today that we have had a major debate on the drawdown of these funds on the committees of the National Assembly. The information in this budget is about the growth of these funds, how much we have spent. In 2004 about 100 million, in 2005 230, in 2006 361, in 2007 419, in 2008 565. This year's programme reduces funds by 14 million at the low level of 900 million, by hearing that 1.2 million funds are available this year. I come from a local level, and I am also monitoring developments across other ministries where we are not local communities that implement these programmes. I miss the invitations. What you're going to spend this year is what was described last year. Last year we got a lot of insights that the calls were too late, that it would be difficult to take advantage of this in the current year. Now, for God's sake, prepare the terms and conditions as soon as possible, the calls for this circle to turn around, because I'm afraid it's going to be very difficult to use these funds again. And it would be very important for this money to be used in 2009 and 2010 to a large extent and to also make our economy a driver. Every 400 million is 1% gross social product and it is right to spend it and to spend our resources to that end. I am very surprised that in the budget we are reducing the item "residential building", which is already a small item, and we are reducing it by a few million. While we are probably all aware, and if we walk through Ljubljana or any other place, that we have such a situation in Slovenia today, that a number of construction companies have been building for the market, building on some very high expectations for these buildings, and today I do not know who else is the buyer of these apartments. I'm sure the builders will have to reduce their appetites for sales, bring prices into some normal frameworks. However, it might be a good idea, as was done by the Municipality of Ljubljana, for the state to do so, as well as for the local communities to think about it, to do so in some way, and to solve two problems at the same time: to involve the municipalities and the state in the necessary housing policy, which we will certainly also have to support from the public sector, otherwise young families will not have housing, and at the same time probably solve the collapse of many subcontractors, a number will be easier to repay to the bank and construction will again in the process. I also do not understand this measure, and I think that we should think very carefully about the future, otherwise I think we have some very unpleasant surprise ahead of us in the area of the construction sector in Slovenia. What I miss is the area within the Ministry of Environment and Space, where there is a significant reduction in sustainable energy resources, from 23.7 million to 7.3 million. We're cutting it down to less than a third! Also, subsidising the efficient use of energy, renewable resources - from 1.9 million we are reducing by a million and a half to 400 million. These are the measures by which Mrs Merkel in Germany tries to spin the cycle in her country. It is intensively subsidising energy efficiency measures and, in some way, reducing energy dependence in the long term, and, on the other hand, it also makes the impetus of the economic sector impossible for me to understand, and I think that these two reductions are completely over the time we are living in, and that is possible, those opportunities and challenges in the crisis that we can come out of. I would like to express my satisfaction that in the budget items relating to the public part of the investment under the construction of the hydroelectric power plant at the bottom of the Sava, they are kept to an appropriate extent and that this large national project can also continue. However, I think that, in addition to the criticism we have received on this project several times recently, who has also seen this project as a model that, on the one hand, can obtain new renewable energy sources in our energy balance, provides flood protection in an area where virtually all the water is flowing, at the same time builds up the environmental infrastructure, as well as the start-up of the Slovenian economy. In the budget or in the Budget Implementation Act, we see an increase in the guarantee from 800 billion to 2.3 billion. We hear from the towers that this is an investment in T6 for 600 million guarantees. Today we also read in Del an article by Prof. Dali Džnlagić, which says it is a project that will give the most expensive and environmentally controversial energy. There is a need for reflection in such an important sector as energy, but not as in the parable of "as drunks in the inn." And also the statement made and recorded in the Saturday Diary by the Minister of Finance that it is necessary to have a broad heart, so I understood, and also for the investment that gives 900 million for technology to the French Alstom in order to solve the European crisis. He himself would be more unprotectionist at this point, but he would not be so broad-minded and would make a domestic matter for 900 million guarantees or investments, more than a billion 200. After all, that's a quarter of the debt we made on the highway. In the budget, I miss cohesion projects such as Cerod-New City, where the already built landfill needs to be continued, another part of the landfill. Also, the Belarusian water line is suddenly no longer in this rebalancing. I think there is a lot to be changed about this environmental work. As far as my support for this rebalancing is concerned, I think I hope that the National Assembly, just as the mother body has accepted the Magnificent Amendment. The crane, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, which, at least on those items that were open in the balance sheet, reduced the material costs, somehow pointed the direction of this budget and where we should go. However, I fear that this very broad and unrealistic on the expenditure side of the budget can also be a very great temptation for ministers, for the consumers of this budget, that at a time when we will not yet accept the real rebalancing on realistic assumptions, the budget will be heavily spent and we will have too much deficit at the end of the year. Perhaps just one more matter that stabbed me in the statements made by different ministers and ministers was in this case the Minister of Defence, who stated that the Ministry of Defence generously gives 26 million or 30 million for kindergartens, for an obligation that had arisen in the past. We must all be aware, together, that the budget or the local community or the country is an integral budget and that this is not the February budget of a single minister, an individual party. There have also been some warnings here today, with which I myself agree that in some way, many times in the implementation of the Government's policy, there is a sense of trying to divide this issue by these feuds. I think this is a big mistake, and on my part a good-intentioned recommendation that the Government treat these public finances as a whole and try to have the edge of a bold step in this time of crisis, and in the future be very careful with the current consumption, because it will lead us into an unenviable financial situation in which Slovenia is not yet fortunate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u96	Mrs. Brunscoll.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Madam Secretary, all colleagues and colleagues present. In life we can have two views of the world: optimistic and pessimistic. Today's times of crisis before really mean a slightly more pessimistic view of the world. I have a feeling that today's debate by some of our colleagues was also appropriate. In particular, there was a sense of darkness, blindness, criticism, and even resentment. I hope I'm wrong about that. But that's how it felt. The balance of the budget means adjustment or change in today's times. Today's times of crisis are meant to correct what has not been fixed or has been somewhat more optimistic, since, as we know, some of our colleagues in some of our discussions a few months ago, at the beginning of our mandate, discussed that there is no recession. Therefore, I do not think there is any doubt as to why we have today's budget rebalancing. Today it was said: parking. Of course, there is a car parking, there is a parking such and otherwise, but I do not think that "parking" is possible at this moment in this budget rebalancing, because anti-crisis austerity measures have been urgently needed to maintain the maximum number of employees who will help those who are most needed in today's times; they will and will listen to the economy that is forced to restructure. I do not think that it is right to think that the budget balance is poorly prepared. That's not right! I am particularly grateful to all the competent ministries, each for their own department, and especially the Ministry of Finance, from the Minister to the Minister of State of Mags. Helen Kamnar's and mag. Alenke Bratušek with colleagues, who I believe were not only working, but working all day, probably at the end of the week. Which is why I know that this rebalancing was prepared with great effort in a short time. It was necessary to seek a room of manoeuvre to carry out anti-crisis measures, as the budget adopted was based on other bases. This is not a problem; six months ago, one year ago, the second time and then the adopted budget was based on the assumption of higher economic growth for 2009. However, as we know, in last year, someone has even said, some measures have been taken, which were in a way desirable, even useful, even interesting for those who have young families, for children, for different segments of us, the inhabitants of Slovenia; but today, therefore, it is also a heavily burdened budget - both state and municipal. And we all have to take it together as it is today. Therefore, the rebalancing represents an adjustment to the situation in question. Some statements about some projects, I have personally seen myself in some because I come from the areas of Dolenjska and the White Land. From the CEROD projects, the waste management centres, the water supply centres of the White Country, then also projects from other parts of Slovenia, including hydroelectric plants on the lower Sava and other projects - I believe that all these projects, if any, will also be implemented if they were started. But it is true that in each of these projects - today we are talking about the budget rebalancing, not the development agenda plan. The balance of the budget means what will be drawn today, this year, which is real at a given time. Not something that is long - term and possibly this year will be almost exhausted or substantially smaller. However, it certainly means preparing a rebalancing also for the actual real situation, not for the purpose of reducing funds. One of the fellow Members' comments on the Committee on Finance was interesting when he said, "It would be great to know and have a project screening tool to see which can actually be realized in a short time, but unfortunately for any reason, even because of project documentation or spatial acts, unfortunately they will not be able to be realized. But there are big items in the budget." We must not forget, as I said before, the fact that projects that are already under way and for which financial transactions are actually under way, temporary situations have been confirmed, the financial cycle is under way, so the work will have to be carried out and they will have to be paid on an ongoing basis. The crisis of today, when more and more people are thinking about what they will eat tomorrow, because they have lost their jobs, without a basic source of survival, is becoming so hot and severe that patience, patience, and understanding are needed at this time. If some projects, as someone mentioned, if some road may not be asphalted or overlayed this year or maybe some sidewalk, although surely necessary for safety in traffic, are not realized. Despite the high deficit, the so-called golden rule is respected in the budget balance: that the net borrowing is almost equal to investment investments, which means that the state will not be in charge of current consumption. However, we lack invitations to tender, and it has also been mentioned. On individual committees, it has been heard that in April, this means very short notice, outside of the calls to which local communities can apply. Therefore, I also hope and expect that not only the cash flow, the financial cycle for which the budget is needed, but also the work cycle, so that calls, projects will be confirmed, the possibility of projects being implemented and, on the other hand, that our workers, people, locals, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will have work and bread to survive. The old human river says it always shines the sun behind the rain. And I believe that we too will face the crisis and look forward to high economic growth again. Then we will face different challenges. I will confirm the proposed budget balance, because I know that only in this way can we start the projects that are being launched so that we can help those who are most in need today and, above all, so that we can listen to the economy as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr. Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you for your input, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Welcome to the Minister, Secretary of State, Members of Parliament and Members! First of all, I would like to congratulate you ladies, as well as ladies in Slovenia, on your mother's day. All good! I don't think anyone's ever done that here in Parliament today. This must also be a part of respect. To touch the balance. It is true that the balance is needed more than anything else, because with the courage of the current ministries and the current government, we do not see a way out. We're sinking ever lower and lower. You're saying we're on the same boat or ship. I'd rather advise you, don't go on board, walk on land and work on land real projects, think positive. Not that you're making excuses for the past. People who talk about the past, those people, unfortunately, have no vision, have no ideas for the future. We're facing the present. This present is, unfortunately, real. We have warned for several months, before the new year, what can happen at this moment in Slovenia. We've proposed a series of amendments. Unfortunately, they weren't accepted. If I only touch the overpaid VAT. If we were to adopt this law for a faster return, 7 or 14 days to enter into force in January, no later than January, believe that there would now be 7% less exports, so that there would not be 12% less investment, that I do not speak and list the other items we are facing today in Slovenia. It is good that some more money has been allocated to the Ministry of the Economy, as well as to tourism. If only money is spent, there are no professional people involved, educated waiters, polite waiters, unfortunately, these investments will not bring positive results either. Then the money's thrown away. Unfortunately in Slovenia, I have already stressed on the committee once, we have very poor staff in the guest industry or it is not actually there. The Ministry of the Economy is committed to some money. I would like to advise you that before this money is earmarked for this area, state bureaucracy should be reduced and diluted, because this part is the biggest problem. We know that the invitation to tender shall be extended for 6 months or more before it is published. These are things that are worrying. And these things need to be made automatically by today’s rebalancing day to appeal and reduce this part of the core. Here is the core of the problems we have in Slovenia. Then, believe me, we'll create more with less money. How can we be even more successful than we were? Bureaucrats, believe me, we've got too much. In all companies where there are no directors, there are successful companies and these companies will continue to be based on sound foundations. In companies where they hide, where mice and cats are hunted, believe me, these companies have long been sentenced to death. But the problem is, in those employees, the problem is always in the leader, the director. That is also the problem here in Parliament, in the President of the Government. Where he's a good leader, everything's fine. Here I would like to point out that I am giving you the thought of watching for tomorrow, for today, but not what happened yesterday. For example, Croat neighbours talk about other things, not the things that the country cares about the most. Why? They do this by turning citizens to the other side of their thinking, not to the side where they are at the heart of their problems. That's the way it is with us. We have more people at the Employment Service every day. You know what I'd do? First, the employment agency shut down. This is a funeral home, not for some support to people who have lost their jobs. For the system that the institution has, if one person is responsible for two hundred, three hundred people, when it falls under that number, then it is she who is without a job. They have no interest in getting people to work, they have an interest in living well, they go to a hairdresser at ten o'clock, they take 12 children home and so on. That's the problem in this country, we have to deal with these things. At that time, our correction of the budget's balance will be much better and much more effective than in this part that we are now devoting to. You know, Slovenia might lead better, we see, to lead better, the indicators show that it does. I hope that I am wrong that people from the environment are misleading me and that we are actually on solid ground and that we are going the right step forward. I am also most concerned that all investments, all the things that are going to happen, will actually be in the main part of Ljubljana, something small in Maribor. Where are we from the countryside, from smaller congregations? We don't need these anyway. Sorry, you're wrong. We can create these people too, and these people can live, maybe even better than we do here in Ljubljana. I want you to have another budget rebalance in your drawers and come to the table tomorrow, because it's too bold. My colleague, Mr Franco Juri, said he would rather be in the opposition Yes, because he has no idea because he has no sense of development. [[...]] I'd rather be in the coalition. Believe me, as many people as possible will be in the coalition, as many economic people as possible will be better in the coalition. Better than culture, it's better. I wish you a lot of success, thank you for listening and have a nice afternoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, if you'll excuse me, you've reached out to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u101	I wouldn't have called if my buddy Bezjak hadn't named me. But let's say it. Comrade Yuri, so I, perhaps I have no idea, have never had any special responsibilities in the conduct of large state companies, which today are slowly sinking into crisis. Mr Bezjak has recently been a member of the Port Koper Supervisory Board. Many will wonder why Mr Bezjak was in such a supervisory world, and they would expect experts to be there. Mr. Bezjak is a member of the SDS. And that's why he was a member of that oversight council. But this supervisory council, where Mr Bezjak worked, is guilty, is responsible for the situation in Luka Koper and for the state of recession in this country. Let's make a little more sense. Let's be a little more honest, Mr. Bezjak. I didn't have such responsibilities, maybe not ideas, but what I was doing was always transparent. I hope everyone can prove it for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr. Bezjak, there's no replica to the replica. But you can call right away. Since there are others who want to discuss it, I am opening the application. We are talking about the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. First, Mrs. Kamnar spoke on behalf of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members! We are talking about the general part of the budget. I am aware that the budget is an extremely extensive document, but regardless, it seems to me that some of your discussions go beyond its dimensions. Therefore, at this point, I will limit myself to the part which, however, only represents the component of the budget. Allow me to summarize very briefly some of the key statements you have made so far. You said that the rebalancing is unsocial, that there is not enough investment in infrastructure and health, that there is not enough renewable resources, that there is not enough resources from the EU, and at the same time you have estimated that those expected will not be used. You said that we have significantly less income than ever, but that additional tax relief would be needed. You said that the measures we are proposing to mitigate the economic crisis are not the right measures. And you also said that the balance sheet was inadequately planned and bad. How to respond to all these claims, which are on their own, in fact contradicting themselves or leading to a counterproductive and unwelcome result. Once again, the Government has actually tried to strike a balance in the preparation of this rebalancing. The balance between social expenditure, between expenditure directly increasing economic growth or public consumption, between expenditure which will have the greatest multiplier effect in the field of investment, which will at the same time not be expenditure on paper, which means that there is a possibility that these expenditure will continue to be realised. That is why we believe that we have found the right measure of balance between all expenditure and that, given the tax burdens in force, we have not been able to do much more and much better. It's about European funds. We have determined very precisely and carefully how much we can plan and for what purposes. We are convinced that the extent of the resources we have planned is also the power to realise, of course, assuming that the activities run more intensively than ever. Let me tell you that the estimated amount or allocation of the European budget allocated in this financial perspective for 2007 amounting to EUR 540 million has been spent at EUR 10.6 million. The allocations planned by the European Commission for 2008 amounted to EUR 550 million and were spent or paid only EUR 203 million, while the reimbursement was only EUR 37 million. I think that these figures are those that indicate that the power will be given, given that the calls for proposals have already been made for most of these allocations, so that the planned funds will be able to be realised this year. On the other hand, it must be said that tenders cannot provide for payments and reimbursements to the domestic budget in the same year for European funds. This is where dynamics need to be planned over the years. And the calls to be made this year will to a large extent provide for the payment and reimbursement of funds only in the following year. So much for an explanation. Now, Mr Chernač, I have already given you the answers to all your questions on the Committee, but you were not present at the time, so I will repeat the answers to the questions you have asked. About the crying. Salaries are planned for all bodies based on the number of employees who were employed in January following the structure of the employees as they were at the time. The funds are planned for this purpose. The only increase in the number of employees is planned in the military, which is also explained, and in the police. An increase in the number of employees is also planned for the Commission to prevent corruption. As far as the amount of wage funds is concerned, which you also consider to be very high, we also agree that it is very high, and that is why we also went into negotiations with the social partners and tried to lower this mass slightly. However, given the prevailing situation, I must tell you that approximately 70 million funds had to be provided for a different harmonisation of the starting salary in 2008 than was envisaged. This, however, was the result of a different inflation than anticipated. Furthermore, it was necessary to provide some €35 million, as the level of salaries in 2008 was raised to such a level as if we had not done anything and, in fact, there is not much to do here, the point is that we are going to identify the surpluses of employees, which is a long-term process, which is why we had to increase the level of wages in 2009. The third element is the law on the elimination of wage imbalances, which has had inappropriately higher consequences already in 2008, which again raised wage levels in 2009 and affected the amount of money for wages, irrespective of the fact that we are not planning to achieve a new coordination with wage imbalances in 2009. As far as the subsidisation of working time is concerned. The measure of subsidisation of working time came into force two months ago. At that time, it is true that there is not enough involved in this instrument to be able to claim with great certainty that funds at the planned level will be fully used. Nevertheless, we believe that due to the deepening of the economic crisis in this and next month, the law provides that businesses will be involved by the end of April, that at least as many employees will be involved in this instrument as they have been so far, and that, above all, the reduction in working time will increase from the current sixty-six hours to the next thirty-two hours, which means that subsidies will also increase significantly. If that were to happen according to our plans, then there won't be much money left. In the event that resources for this instrument are not able to be spent, the Government will prepare new instruments or measures to maintain jobs. And these funds will certainly be used for the same purpose, although perhaps with more effective instruments, if this really proves to be insufficiently effective. Perhaps just a word, two in favour of the non-social attitude of the budget. If anything, I don't think this budget balance can be seen. All funds are provided for the implementation of all legal obligations. And there was no further assessment of whether the social rights currently in force were right or wrong. We simply failed to do this in such a way that it would be consistent. Going from case to case and actually making up which right to give, but not without the entire social security system of all groups of the population, would be very inappropriate. Such work, however, takes a little longer. And that certainly awaits you with budgets for the next two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u104	Thank you. Here you go. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President, for allowing me to replicate. Dear Mrs Kamnareva, I have been on the committee, and I have also answered there or said that your answer is flawed or that it does not drink water if I simplify, as far as wages are concerned. It's two, three different things. If what you've just said is true again, I've asked you on the board how it's possible that this isn't true for everyone. Why are some enormous increases in wages, while others are slightly lower, while others are shrinking? But those who are shrinking are four: the Office of the President of the Government, the Council of State, the National Assembly and the Office of Competition Protection. Everyone else is getting bigger if it's a matter of alignment and so on. That's another thing. In the previous term, a maximum of 2% reduction in the number of employees has been established. That's the same thing you wrote down in those 30 famous austerity measures. How can this be done if the number of employees has to be reduced to pay more? It doesn't work together. Regarding 230 million EUR 400,000, the Act on Subsidisation of Working Time. In a similar way as today, "ex department", without having to throw one number on the table, you did so on board boards all the time, and in one word you did not justify what I did to you several times and what I held, and as confirmed by the representative of the Ministry of Finance on 17.3.2009 on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, when he said that, so far, after this measure, companies where 40 thousand people are employed have been employed, which, given the amount of €60 per month for 6 months, amounts to EUR 14 million, 400 thousand, which under your assumption today's assumption that this number will double, is 28,8 million, says more than 200 million less than you have foreseen with the rebalancing. And that's what I've been warning you all along, and you can't deny this number in any way, and you don't want it, and you don't want it. I said in the previous debate that you can't. And I don't expect that anymore, because it's perfectly clear that you're saving these funds for something else. I don't hope to think of anything, but I think it's unworthy. The National Assembly accepts spending and the National Assembly needs to know what every euro of this money will be spent on. It's only 200 million euros! The explanation says they'll be used for other purposes. Unacceptable! You must come to the National Assembly and the National Assembly must decide for what purpose such high funds will be spent. That's what I've been talking about on the boards, on the boards, and I'm talking about it today, unfortunately, unsuccessfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u106	Thank you. We continue the debate. Mr. Bezjak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. In this balance, as we have discussed before, and I am alone, I hope that there is no chicken carrying golden eggs. This chicken that lays golden eggs is Luca Koper. In 2006 the port of Koper generated 105 million 688 thousand revenue. In 2008, it has 137 million euros in revenue. 12% of the company's growth was achieved by the port of Koper. Last year, the port of Koper produced another record: 16 million tons of processed goods. There is no way that people are allowed to talk, at least in Parliament, about "their" Luke Koper, because they come from that place. These are information that anyone can read that they can read. I say, don't fool people, these are things that are mermaids that are true. I would like to point out that in 2004, under the old leadership, Luca Koper created 64 million, today 137. That means she's made it bigger than two. So please, these are all the deceptions that people say. There's one more thing I'd like to say. Their previous president, a colleague, actually parked for 700,000 euros in shares in companies that he then bought himself. That's what they say. But it's not like they're talking about Luke Koper, that he's a disaster-stricken company. This is a chicken carrying golden eggs for the state of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u108	Thank you. Mr. Rozej has the floor. Mr. Yuri, you were not appointed, but you will apply. Mr. Rogers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present. Many times today's debate has used the parable of what we are doing, or for this country, and how and where we are taking it. It's like a boat. Most, both on the opposition side and on the position side, have taken this illustration for granted on several occasions. One of the few sworn continentalists was previously debated, and it is therefore strange to me how he could manage his supervisory function in Luke if the sea and these comparisons were so close to him. With the record achievements mentioned, he may have forgotten to mention the increase in meetings of supervisors in Luka Koper. From 2004 to 2007, they increased by 647%. Recorded. Nice. Even compared to the increase in profits, traffic and more, this is a huge increase. A total of EUR 23,489,40 was distributed to members of the Supervisory Board in Luka Koper in 2004. On average, the individual received 2,609 euros. In 2007, however, the funds allocated to the Supervisory Board amounted to 175,510,80 euros or 19,501 euros and 20 cents per member. Who does this Luka Copper bear with golden eggs? That it is not a shame for people to be so carelessly discussing then all the savings that are in this balance sheet and still have a face to criticize all the investments, which are still inside and so on, what is necessary and what is not necessary. A lot of cynicism, a lot of gibberish, a lot of shame! But if we go back to this boat of ours. In 2007, at the celebration of the Statehood Day, the then Prime Minister claimed that Slovenia was in good condition, that the wind in sails and steering was facing in the right direction, a good crew that the international sea was peaceful, only in internal waters there were some artificial waves and clouds. Well, whether it was really the Prime Minister's idea or whether he copied it somewhere, it doesn't matter at this point. The moment he said it, he believed it. Let's see if that's true. Of course, the wind in the sails had Slovenia at that time. Something blew him. And the other half was created alone with a fan. She was burning, driving her machine, her boat, so he could work the fan that blew into those sails. It has reduced the taxation of companies that, instead of investing, have, of course, financed their domestic repurchases. In short, the managers were draining these companies, the money didn't go where it was supposed to go, it didn't invest in technological innovation and investment. No, he went into this tycoon story you know. The steering wheel is facing in the right direction. Sure. Slovenia is, we can say, on the autopilot. We are members of the European Union, we are members of the global economy, and I do not need to be unaware of how severe the steering wheel is. You need to fix your course a little bit, and the autopilot's taking you where it's going anyway. And we are also in the autopilot when it needs to be programmed, as we are members of the European Union and all other financial and international institutions. The crew was fine. I hope she has it now. Especially a crew that'll be compatible if she can't row, at least don't do any damage. Let him stand on the right side of the boat and balance it. You know, if the wind is tilting to one side, you need to shift the weight to the other side. That's all one half of the crew is asking for the other half of the crew. Nothing else. A peaceful international sea. Perhaps this is true in 2007, only at that time the sternman was reading an outdated weather forecast. The international sea probably showed signs of excitement back then, but they didn't recognize themselves as such. Obviously, time wasn't right. We were before the elections, it was not wise to arouse too much emotional emotion in voters and voters. Now, interesting, but this is something completely normal, in fact it is a mode of operating one part of this crew: awakening impatience, fear, pessimism and so on. In internal waters, some artificial waves and clouds. Good pilots and good sailors will always be able to row or swim if necessary. The fact that the sails are wide open is a problem. The problem of public spending, which has been spread across all borders, especially in these times, we now see, is problematic. Therefore, it is necessary to congratulate the Minister of Public Administration on the rebalancing of the sails. I hope I've been understanding in my parables. I'm not much of a sailor myself, but I think it's such a general thing to understand what I'm talking about. With smaller sails, with less open sails, Slovenia will be able to navigate more easily during this stormy period, especially because the wind is blowing in the opposite direction. If he's been blowing his back for days, now he's blowing his head off. So you have to, everyone who's ever sailed, you know, cruise or what's called "orcats" - left, right. This is not a completely simple maneuver. And, of course, nothing peaceful is happening in between. You can't cook dinner in the middle, you can't eat anything, you can't eat a sandwich. The one who will always get the first bite of this sandwich, but that's the way it is on the boat, but he's a skipper. Therefore, it is likely that all these funds, which are for the General Secretariat of Public Administration and so on, are material costs. If that doesn't work, then everything else won't work at all. What helps us with the extra Draganski for the pensioners if they do not have a window to which they could get their applications from, at all, open because public servants for such small money will not work. To conclude this sailing illustration of this budget. We must flow through our territorial waters to international waters, so I am also happy with these parables that have been used. From this I conclude that we are all convinced that the Slovenians are also a maritime nation and that Slovenia is a maritime state. Through our territorial waters we have to sail to the international sea, and there we hope that a tractor that is already qualified, which is currently in the shipyards, is being repaired, even the largest, and we will be well attached to it. Of course, we'll help out sometime if we have to. But in the meantime, when we get to these tractors, we're going to give anyone who drowns in the sea their hand and pull it dry. We won't let anyone drown in this water. Therefore, these parables, which have been erased, which are supposed to make this difficult, are completely depressed. No one can die in this sea. Even though we have a bad boat, it's better than nothing. Because if it happens to us that these drowned ones will be picked up by the tractors I'm talking about, then no one will ever take us with them again. And we can do whatever we want with this boat in our territorial sea, but we can't do anything but circle. I wanted to tell you so much about the budget as a whole. With the amendments, I would like to say something else because at least one person who talks about renewable energy seems to be worth the support. Otherwise, as I say, the crew will be, if they are not fully compatible, at least they will not do themselves harm in these stormy times: to themselves, to the driver, to anyone, because the boat, once sunk, sinks for all the same, those who feed or those who just drive and those who row and those who drink 12-year-old whiskey on leather seats in the cockpit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Representative, government representatives and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Today is certainly the day when Slovenians and Slovenians are interested in accompanying the debate in the National Assembly. These are predictions, which on the one hand are very negative, which speak of a drastic decline in economic growth, and on the other hand they certainly expect us to be effective in taking those measures, that this crisis will not deepen and that, in terms of the effectiveness of the measures, they expect us to be able to fight this crisis or minimize it in a way that will make as few people as possible feel this crisis. Today, the government has given two fundamental reasons why it proposed a rebalancing. One thing is for sure is that the legal obligations adopted in previous periods must also be covered financially. The second, and even more important, is the global financial and economic crisis, the poor macroeconomic forecasts that have also reached Slovenian space. If I first identify myself to the attitude of this Government and this coalition towards the obligations that have been adopted under the law in the past period. I think the Government was doing the right thing when it identified itself as meeting these obligations. Of course, it fulfils them to the point where it will not be necessary to encroach on the rights that this legislation gives. Here I would like to draw the attention of Members and Members of the opposition to what your outcome would be today if this Government were to define itself to the amendments to the laws we have adopted in the past period and brought certain rights in purely different economic circumstances. Would you shoot even stronger cannons than you are shooting today, in the sense that everything you've done in this government is not acceptable. At this point, I think the government has acted wisely, and at this point, it also has my support. Of course, we regret and regret that when we have warned you that some of the rights we give will have consequences that you have not anticipated at the time. I'm just going to mention subsidizing the student diet. At that time, we have warned you that there are no conditions for this legal obligation to be fulfilled in schools, and this proposal for a rebalancing also requires a substantial increase in resources to ensure that the conditions for the exercise of this right are met. No one was against this right, but of course we warned you whether the dynamics of the realization of this right were realistic. I can agree with you when you draw attention to a wide range of areas that may not be covered by this balance. But to say that the balance is not meant to respect the social state and to care for the social weaknesses, but here I feel that you are not correct. In doing so, I am merely reminding you of the consequences of your law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households. It was clear from the explanation that you would be affected by certain groups of people. You didn't react. This was put out before the elections with individual measures that were then mitigating individual social hardships. Today this government will face systemic changes in these areas. Today, we are not talking about systemic interventions that will interfere with the pension fund. We are alerted to major problems relating to cash health insurance. I am not talking about this today, but the government will also face these negative trends in these two cash registers. And when we look at the measures proposed by the government in response to the financial and economic crisis and the very negative macroeconomic forecasts, I agree here with the President of the Government. It's not right if you're being unrealistically optimistic, it's not right if you're being unrealistically pessimistic. Let us try to be realistic, for people expect this debate to give them confidence in what we are doing here. And that from the wise decisions of this house will, of course, have the assurance that the measures will be the right ones. And as we look today at the areas in which these measures are going, it is necessary to make it clear that the Ministry of Economy measure is aimed at supporting the economic sector. This is a type and range of measures aimed at maintaining and revitalising economic activity. We have measures in the field of higher education, science and technology where important support goes to programmes to promote technological development and science. Here I agree with those who talk about policy in the energy sector being extremely important. The decisions we are about to make here must also be linked to the fact that we will also come out of this crisis by restructuring the economy, because the European Union, of which Slovenia is a part, is focusing on low-carbon ecology with less CO2 consumption, so I think it is extremely important that we also focus these moments of crisis on restructuring an economy that will respond to the challenges of global climate change and, of course, put Slovenia into higher competitive classes. This is also important because not only do we want jobs to be kept, we want jobs that will be better, better, better, that will require more knowledge and produce a substantial added value. In this way this Slovenian economy will be even more successful and competitive in its markets, on which it has a key export-oriented economy. This must be taken into account in the context of these measures that we are taking here. If we have a 70% export-oriented economy, the fact that there is a very large link between these markets for actions in those countries and, of course, the measures that have been taken in our home. This cannot be separated, as it will not be enough to count only on measures that will only be linked to the Slovenian market. I support those measures that go towards ensuring social security for all those, because the forecasts are unfavourable that will lose jobs. Social sensitivity is even more important at these times than when, say, we have the possibility of employment at a significantly higher level. It will therefore be necessary to implement those measures in order to keep those who temporarily lose their jobs in active condition so that they can actively enter into working relationships when this crisis passes. In the meantime, we need to ensure that we arm them with additional knowledge so that when they enter the labour market, they can be even more successful. Family policy. We've met this subject many times. This rebalancing also largely responds to the successful resolution of family policy measures. The allowances provided here in this budget for the purposes of family benefits and parental benefits are significantly increased. We are also expected to have significant difficulties in ensuring social status and favourable conditions within individual families. Speaking of tycoons, I agree that we are talking about a non-transparent and also a policy entry into the field of the economy, in order to detect the lack of transparency, political connections in economic works and to do everything possible to avoid this happening. But of course, the question of the previous mandate is whether you, in the past term, have made levers to get to the end. Let us just look at your actions towards the anti-corruption Commission, where you have so reduced the Commission's resources that they have also actually made calls at the international level to finance this commission so that it can act. Take a look at your attitude towards the Court of Auditors, when it was very easy for you to overturn the decisions of the Court of Auditors by acting on behalf of the President of the Government and not acting as necessary. And if you remember the arrangements for Mercator's sale, then also in terms of how you formed an investigative commission, which is an organ of the opposition, not the ruling parties, to get to the bottom of it. Remember these actions when you talk today about what all things need to be done. I very much agree with these measures, and I also have no difficulty in making legislation in the National Assembly that will identify and bring to light those who have become unjustifiably rich and cannot show the resources of their revenues. We don't have any problems here. But don't tell us about the experience you've been growing in the last four years, that we don't want to do anything in this area. It is therefore correct to conclude today that, given that we are rapidly changing macroeconomic frameworks, of course the forecasts, the forecasts from January, February and March have been substantially changed and that we will have to react very quickly to further assessments of macroeconomic development. Our joint decision and responsibility will be that we will be able to properly define ourselves to the necessary priorities in order to be able to mitigate those blows that the Slovenian economy will record here. I agree with the President of the Government, who says, "The best social policy is development policy." And here I think the National Assembly should find consensus on these decisions, because populist decisions in these situations will not bring true solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear coworkers, coworkers. John Maynard Keyness said years ago that the country would have to pay at the time of the recession to dig holes, and then to recharge them. In doing so, he wanted to say that consumption must be encouraged during the recession and that it is the country which must create new jobs during the recession, including through its own public consumption. Well, we will do much better, not only will our holes be bigger, more beautiful, deeper and better, but we will also carry out many meaningful projects. Of course, the budget isn't fantastic, but it's neither terrible nor bad. This budget is counter-crisis, is developmental, is substantive and reflects the real situation. Why is it anti-crisis? Because it stimulates consumption and thus restarts economic momentum. What John Maynard Keyness says. Why is it evolving? Because it is increasing funds for those sectors that will ensure development in Slovenia. And we do this because we have agreed in a coalition agreement because we believe that more resources should be made and more invested in knowledge, higher education and technological development, and because we believe that more needs to be done in the field of the environment. So you don't have to look for games in the background. Clear and transparent, we believe and we do. The budget is substantive. Look what has already been done in the field of higher education. Promises, agreements that were made even in the time of the previous government and were not implemented, thus even risking that the University of Primorska would lose its rectorate and that a beautiful public building would become private property. When the new government was appointed, this agreement was realized. As soon as the new government was appointed, the agreement was reached at the second meeting. What the previous government dragged for almost nine months. I'd have a baby before I was born. Technological development. We believe in research. This year is the 60th anniversary of the Institute of Joseph Stefan, which I believe must be supported and which, in addition to all the resources they receive in practice on the market, the State will finally have to start financing from the budget. Environment, energy efficiency. That's what we believe, and that's why we finance it. This budget reflects the real situation. We know that it will still have to be shrinked, this is real because we know that 0.6% of economic growth will not be due to the economic crisis. We know that the deficit will be greater, and that is why the increase so far is the upper limit on what we can afford. Calling on the fact that we should increase the deficit is not real right now. There'll be time for that. And co-workers and co-workers, regardless of the worsening economic growth, the budget is designed so that we are not in charge of spending. We are in charge of key and investment only. This means that what we owe today will be returned tomorrow, because this is what investments are meant for. And let me finish with some interesting controversy about those who see all over Castro, probably Mai Ce Tunge and the others. Those who see communists everywhere remind me of McCarthy, not Paul McCartney, that there will be no misunderstandings about Joseph McCarthy. If you remember him in the '50s, he even saw the communists under the cover of his own toilet. These people also remind me a little of the top list of surrealists because they are surreal in their conversations, absurd, but at the same time quite sympathetic. And speaking of McCarthy, let me finish with Edward Murow's sentence of Joseph McCarthy's greatest critic: Good night and good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u115	Respectable. Before I begin on the balance sheet, I need to find that you have also violated the Rules of Procedure today, and that is, fundamentally, when you double time for someone, he tells them his own and goes home, and that to the account of everyone here who actually thinks we are working in accordance with some parliamentary rules. When we talk about the balance, we need to keep in mind what we are actually doing. It is certain that we do not write a new budget. If we did that, then this one would be different. It would have been different because it would have arisen under the circumstances that they are today. It's time after the election and it's time for the good 120 days of the new government. We are correcting the 2009 budget for several reasons. For the first time because he has built-in desires and ideas from the best of times and for even better times. It was done without responsibility and without looking forward. And, of course, we were struck by circumstances that forced us, both international and domestic, to look at what we should do this year, and we can predict how to prepare the 2010 and 2011 budget. I regret that the Government failed and was probably impossible, it has already been announced that this will be done in preparation for the 2010 budget, namely a thorough analysis of all the programmes, all the development plans, all the projects we will have to undertake. And some certainly are not developmental and are engrossed in these documents that we must enforce, not only in order to be useful, necessary, but far from it. One of the things is definitely TRPs, the 2006 core development programmes. Once again and a thousand more times, I will repeat that reference to the 2004 resolution is not justified. It is not justified how the so-called 135 armoured men were supposed to be, only when, at the request of the previous government, it was necessary to provide money at the request of Rotis and his companions just before the signing of the contract with the Finnish Patrio. At the end of 2006, at the request of the Government, the National Assembly adopted these basic development programmes, which also provided money. It was easy to give up 41 million euros in the defence area because it was planned, too much for something we do not need or are not needed at this point, and it is also necessary to think thoroughly about whether Slovenia is really capable of following, like all 17 years after its independence, that some area was supported without discussion with huge money. If all countries, including those that are militant, are at the helm of various missions and so on, which are also causing or triggering certain wars, if they are considering changes, then so should we. I am convinced that what is now on the table is something that fixes or changes priorities for force and covers those things that we need to cover with a budget, that all subsystems in this country can function and that they will eventually only make a development breakthrough. I am sorry that a false impression has been created that coffee, plastic flowers, and similar things can be used to save and use the country. No, you can't. It has been said here already today that only investing, promoting the consumption and employment of people in productive jobs makes this possible. The fact is that that part of the money that was focused on higher education as well as the economy and so on, which is designed to develop, stimulate research, search for new products and so on, is very useful and stimulating. I'm sorry we went in the opposite direction in the area of defense. When we went to NATO, it was one of the basic propaganda actions, if, it will also be useful for the economy, it will be useful for development, and so we will also participate in the European defence agency and everywhere, our companies will compete, they will get jobs, we will produce for our own needs and also for exports. From year to year, funds for this part are falling. Even this year, from modest 18 million in these areas, it is now falling to 15, but it has already been significantly more targeted. Development in this area is moving fast, it is intensive and very good companies we have in Slovenia, but unfortunately this year it started last year, this year it will continue to be that companies with notified projects, with export-oriented companies, with already concluded certain jobs abroad, are falling out of these calls or from these plans because we are reducing funds on this item. I believe that in the future it will be understood that when it comes to development, every ministry, every area dealing with this as a priority. Why am I talking about this particular issue here? Because I was also taught by some Members, how I do not understand that it does not matter whether it is from one ministry or another. It doesn't matter. If you look at the budget lines, you have development for peace here and there are special projects, special money is intended for this development, both within us and within the framework of the European Defence Agency. So that if we already have to give so much money for some things that I think are absolutely exaggerated and we should share the fate of all the countries that we are in relation to NATO or in the context of European defence policy. We're world recorders by number of missions. It's not true that we only train there to learn something. But we are paying for all of this, or even though this money could be used in a good way, as I said, even in a developmental sense. Above all, to invest in people. If you look, we plan to have 8,500 soldiers now. I hope to say here that we will never have them, because the Slovenian demographic picture shows a completely different picture. We have 7,000 today. And we're buying all the hardware and all the irons, like we're gonna have 8,500. It is not fair not to say that we are not doing according to what the state needs, as far as it can, but I only believe that for the 2010 budget and also when it comes to redefinition, it is foretold that, I don't know, those famous contracts for 300 million euros, as well as some other things, and that this will be more balanced. Even at the expense of a more rational use of electricity or energy in general and some of the incentives that should be in this area are declining. Finally, I would like to say that it is actually free of charge to compete and complement who here is more inclined to socialize or not know which transfers. At this point, we have only a task to determine, because the balance sheet is intended to achieve the 2009 financial year, because we are at the end of March, according to the expected resources, according to the planned expenditure. And it is more obvious that, except with certain corrections as they are, and I hope that they will endure longer than is predicted, because some predict and also the Government hesitates that a new balance will be needed very soon, I hope that as soon as possible, if at all. But today it is only before us that we do this to consider what the 2009 pre-election budget contains, and what is what we unfortunately have to postpone or simply remove from our ambitions for a certain time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Since I was away for a while, when I began to hold the meeting again, I taught myself what we were discussing. And they taught me that there is still a general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing, not about specific work, not about amendments, not about the plan for development programmes. And I agree with everyone who thinks we're all talking about everything and not in detail. But that's all I would stress, everyone about everything, and I'm afraid that's how it's gonna go on. Therefore, with regard to my part of the meeting, as far as I know, the co-chairmen were thinking the same thing, the content, as it was intended, was difficult to guide, since then it would be a matter for each one to discuss and the content would be lost to a greater extent. I find that there is now an exhausted list that we have so far, and I ask, does anyone else want to apply for the debate? [[Yeah.]] So I'm opening applications. I see that the interest in the debate is still great. The word is by Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u117	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I was kind of thinking about maybe focusing our discussions further, but because we said we were all talking about everything, I'm going to take this opportunity and focus a little bit more on the amendment that relates to the use of resources for the purposes of the scholarship. I must say that, in fact, the amendment in this sense represents an excess of the transfer of the former position with regard to the use of scholarship funds. We have to say that there is actually less spending on the grant items because a novelty of the scholarship law has been adopted in the previous term, which has begun to include new types of benefits as a basis for scholarships, but has not raised the award of scholarships. If we want to change things, we need to change the law. And this marriage is in preparation and will change. As a result of the deterioration of living conditions, the number of scholarships will increase by approximately 3,200. The amendment of the law, which we are drafting together with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs at the legal initiative of our party, will result in an increase of 4,500 scholarships. We can expect 8,000 new scholarships next school year when we adopt the law. For these purposes, the appropriations provided for in the budget shall be sufficient. However, we also agree that the scholarship policy needs to be thoroughly rewinded and, in fact, the part that is even more development-oriented. These are mostly human resources scholarships. We are also preparing for this, and we will design a new policy, and once legislation is adopted, funds will also be increased. This amendment is totally unnecessary and, in fact, in some way, accounts for some of the supplies that we will need only when we adopt a new law. If you allow me, I would also touch myself in the second part with a very difficult subject. This is the so-called amendment relating to the so-called Dragan Supplement. Yeah. The poorest live the hardest, and according to the rights they benefit from our pension legislation, the situation is relatively difficult. However, there are no reasons for the dragan supplement at this time. When we said last year that there are reasons for extremely high inflation, which in fact evaluates the level of rights that beneficiaries receive under pension legislation, these reasons do not exist at present. In fact, we are now facing a negative increase in the cost of living, and therefore there is no special reason for the need for a Dragan Supplement. However, I agree with those who say that the conditions for determining the level of social security need to be thoroughly overturned and, in fact, even more verified, whether the benefits received by all, both those receiving social benefits and those receiving social assistance, are sufficient to ensure an adequate standard of living. In this case, and I am sure of this, because I have been doing a lot of research myself, there are reasons for the social benefits to increase. At this point, I think that even for the amendment, there is not enough for the dradnian supplement, I will say, valid reasons to think about it at this point. Of course, if things change, then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u119	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I must say that I very much agree with you when you talk about how we should focus our discussions on the area of balance and try to present our initiatives and proposals to improve this balance. I have to say that sometimes I really don't know why the National Assembly works this way anymore, because we see that in some debates we don't touch content at all. More. Many lies were told in the National Assembly today. And in this context, I would ask all Members and Members in the future to consider their role in the National Assembly. In particular, I would answer my colleague Jerovšek’s lies, which he had previously handed over to the National Assembly. I hope he's listening in his office now, just like I used to listen to him. He was talking about a particular company called Talum, where I was personally employed. Once again, I apologize for opening this subject up, but it was specifically about me, and I will ask permission to answer that, because there was also a call to answer that question. Although I was an intern at this company, working through all the procedures that are right, I was essentially accused of becoming a human resources chief, which I do not know at all. That's the first lie. The second lie that we were preparing a campaign for ourselves and for the director of this company and somehow carrying out a broadcast is probably Mr Jerovšek's idea of a money transaction to help him express himself a little while while he's talking about the facts. I would like to go back to when we talked about how this company worked in the past, we are talking about Talum. Today, Talum employs more than 1,000 people in the congregation of Kidričeva and has always been able to cope with individual crises in the past. By restructuring and modernising the company, it has led to a very successful business today, despite the fact that the price of aluminium has fallen by more than 60% and that essentially the production of aluminium products is more expensive than the total price needed to maintain this company. And just because of the good results from the past, i.e. all employees and even the management of this administration, the company can still operate normally today. And it is right to say this to the Slovenian public that there are still good companies in Slovenia and that it is precisely the policy's intentions that have gone in this direction to successfully replace the administration and some of the employees for no reason. Moreover, from the Slovenian Democratic Party, specifically by the Ministry of Economy, there were also offers to sell at the price of Talum, currently owned by the majority state, to owners from Russia. There were many of these floods, many political Februarys wanted somehow to earn their place in this company. That's what I'd say, before anyone's exposed to anything, you need to put it in front of your own doorstep. And first of all, we all need to be aware that if someone, then Members and Members, should not spread the wrong information that we have to be honest here, because what people hear from us is somehow being taken as a lease. And Mr Jerovšk may be advised not to take the duties of a Member as a court jester. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u121	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In dealing with the 2009 budget balance, I believe that the opposition should, above all, congratulate the current government, which has drawn up a balance that is balanced and that allows for the resolution of acute problems and allows for development. This satisfaction should also be expressed by the opposition in particular because the 2009 budget was adopted in 2007, i.e. during a period of exceptional economic growth and even in a period when we have actually warned the Government that there are still some things that we should not have as high inflation as it was then. Of course, this has not been taken into account and the flow of economic growth and inflation has gone its own way, but all of this has been encouraged by additional debt. And today, instead of having an accumulation of funds and even a smaller debt from this exceptional economic growth, we face virtually no stock, but of course a huge debt. And these are the starting points that are certainly the basis for the opposition today to be able to congratulate this government on its ability to draw up the balance that we are dealing with today. And despite the fact that the economic indicators are even worse than they were at the time the government started preparing this rebalancing. It is important that virtually all the projects that have been launched and are ready for this phase continue to be put in place normally in the development programme plan and that they can normally also be planned for consumption and, last but not least, for European funds. Many programmes were introduced into the budget in all these periods and also in 2007 without adequate basis for the creation of a development programme plan. This also makes this rebalancing so much better today, because the Ministry of Finance's directive has been extremely strict that only those investments for which documentation is adequately prepared can be included in the budget so that we can include these programmes in the development programme plan. And if it is possible just for a moment to touch the area of transport, I can find that, in fact, all the investments that have been planned in this area run smoothly in this balance. Nevertheless, I stress that economic growth in 2007 and the indices on which the 2007 budget is planned were completely different from those in 2009. For the transport sector, I can say for sure, one where all the investments entered into the budget adopted in 2007 are taken into account and will be implemented in 2009. This is all the more important because it is this very area that has also caused an extremely large budget gap or a deficit because the motorway programme was almost entirely financed by debt. And this debt is also one of those huge burdens that can become a very serious development problem if we happen to have this debt included in the public finances of the Republic of Slovenia or in the budget itself, which can then show a deficit far above what is allowed within the euro area or expected within the euro area to be taken into account as a serious and credible country. The problem of road debt and the problem of introducing vignettes, which has caused an additional problem, is what I believe the opposition today should be extremely quiet and just shivering, whether we will be able to address all these extremely difficult and difficult corrective decisions in a way that we will continue to have stable public finances and that we will also be able to ensure adequate economic growth under difficult economic conditions. And today, when, in fact, we should also have a number of projects ready to launch and promote economic growth immediately, we are faced with the fact that no serious new project has actually been put into space during this period, even less then the technical documentation prepared to launch investments and thus to enable new economic growth during this period. This is a huge negative that we are faced with that we do not have significant investments involved in a space that could stimulate economic growth. The long-term consequences of such planning in this transport area will also be reflected in the construction of development axes. Far away the biggest problem is how to provide resources to start works on development axes. And that, remember, is the development axis that solves the development problems of areas that don't lie at the highway. This is an extremely large area in the Republic of Slovenia which does not yet have favourable infrastructure conditions to ensure that these areas are adequately populated and that the economy is able to integrate and meet the competitive conditions they have in all those areas where this infrastructure is already built. Something similar is happening in the field of environmental protection. The extremely important investments, which are even enshrined in the laws in Slovenia's pre-accession negotiations with the European Union, and the deadlines for the realisation of these investments are largely due this year. In July 2009, municipal waste disposal should be practically regulated throughout Slovenia. Unfortunately, we are faced with very few exceptions, only very few areas have been able to complete these procedures in a way that this deadline will be reached. We can say by the Ministry of the Environment that very little specific information has been given and made available during this period, as well as guidance, so that these projects can be prepared and implemented to the extent that they can draw on European funds and that Slovenia will now achieve the criteria it has committed itself to this year at the time we stepped into the European Union. As a result, Slovenia will be threatened with paying the penalty because we will not meet all these legal obligations that we have imposed on ourselves. The same applies in the management of waste water. There are also extremely few projects that have been brought to this stage so that European funds can be drawn up. It is quite incomprehensible that, for some investments, technical documentation has already been prepared and a building permit has been obtained in all of the four or even five years behind us, the Ministry of the Environment has failed to submit an application to the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, which is responsible for issuing an appropriate decision on the absorption of cohesion funds also in the field of municipal waste water management. All of these are investments that we still need to draw on European funds to improve our economic growth and the public financial situation. If these projects are not available, we are in this situation today to re-break our heads, how to actually solve this problem, and what laws to amend, to mitigate this exceptional flaw that has arisen due to unprepared projects in the period beyond us. And perhaps a few more words about the budget we have in the Republic of Slovenia, but it is not accepted by the National Assembly. Here, perhaps only for a moment, I would ask the Minister of Finance if he would listen to this warning just this minute. This is a budget adopted by the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. This is not an integral part of the budget. The National Assembly doesn't accept it. They happen, however, at a time when we are working intensively in Slovenia to encourage economic growth, how to reduce the burden of the economy, how to take completely different measures within this budget and the extra-budgetary consumer. The Fund’s authorities have already taken decisions in this period, when it is extremely critical economic growth, to increase the rent: they are additionally burdening farmers and farmers who are renters with higher rents. This is an illogical act and an additional burden on the economy and individual households. The same is true of concessions in state forests. There are increasing concessions or at least trying to maintain them at the 2007 and 2008 levels when there was high economic growth. This directly puts them in an extremely demanding position of the company linked to these concession benefits and the entire wood-processing industry chain. This is an extremely large number of businesses and jobs in these companies, which are additionally burdened by the budget and decisions taken by the bodies of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. I expect to include in this programme the budget and decisions of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which, of course, can also be joined by this Fund to mitigate the economic crisis and promote and, last but not least, to preserve jobs and new economic growth, especially in the food and processing industry, in the field of timber and primary programmes such as work in the forest and in agricultural fields. At this point, we can note that, despite all of this, not all options have been exhausted for us to be able to manage the economic crisis in Slovenia, and I expect that we will continue to take this direction into account. Of course, I would like to see decisions taken as soon as possible to encourage investment and also to address the social situation mainly through development measures, but not just through measures that alleviate the social distress of an individual, which is what this budget provides for very large amounts of resources and I hope that they will also come into the right hands and that these social measures will be effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The President of the Government, Borut Pahor, wanted to point out by paying for coffee that a balance of morals in this country should also be made. However, the balance of morality was due to the fact that the story went so far as to make it simple and simply impossible to return with one budget rebalancing or a short period of action. On the other hand, one of you has been talking about bringing our country back to the right tracks by good leaders. Don't be ridiculous! You sent a good leader to Intereuropa, where he wasted and destroyed everything he could. That is true, we were able to see a television contribution where he, along with John Janša, showed their past with pride. These are the leaders you sent to Primorsko, three, four, five, and they led us to have a moral rebalance today. But in this confusion you left behind, the team has made excellent preparations, excellent! And all I can do is congratulate them that they've even gotten along and that they've gotten the best results we've got. Indeed, the situation is changing, not from month to month, but from day to day. It's time to look around and stop fooling around. As it is said, Mr President of the Government has done so because it is immoral for a health director to have $18,000 in salary at home! That's 36 well-paid workers in Mura. And such directors and such health homes are quite a few after Slovenia. Why do we have to fix all these things now? Why didn't you do something when it was time? The parade horse of the Slovenian coast of Istrabenz collapsed. The Intereuropa collapsed, where workers sometimes received from the main and major logistics, an excellently organised, 13th salary, Christmas. After a thorough investigation, which I hope will indeed be done as it should, in the area of finance and in the area of criminal reasons, that we will also have to take care of these workers with a measure taken by the Government as soon as its mandate is reached. Here are the reasons for the rebalancing of the plan, which in itself came about. Why today such numbers are clear from the past, when we had enough money when we could manage well, we wasted everything we could and more. In my opinion, it is really necessary, as someone on your side said, to step together. Okay. Let us step together and do what is necessary for us to have a much better starting point for the preparation of the budget by the second year. But we can't stand together, my dear gentlemen, with a fig in our pocket. You write and draw those who run the economy to convince the public that you know how to run this country. You've had your chance, you've done what I just told you and what many debaters have told you today. Not on purpose, not just to make fun of someone. But these are the facts. And we must tell these facts that the body is cleansed and that we can go ahead as we need to. If I remain only in this part of the economy, where the capital has run out where the crazy numbers are, I expect the government not only to act cosmetically, but to prosecute those who have brought such companies into such a situation that the money will flow into the budget so that the government can plan it for the next period. It is not enough just to warn what is going on there, and just to read in newspapers, how some are being inflated and a million euros is virtually nothing. Yeah, a little joke of a million euros for some individuals! And today, when this balloon broke, but tonight these gentlemen will become poor and they will want the banks to help them and the government. Figgo, no one can and cannot help such a person unless jobs are at risk where they are, of course. Quite a few of them were wasted because they had very good programs and plans to buy real estate and so on and so on. Otherwise, as it is said, at the very rebalancing of the plan is my great desire for much more resources to be allocated to homes for the elderly. On the board, we also heard explanations as to why there is a slightly smaller number. It is not smaller because the government has reduced it, it is smaller because the funds are engaged where the homes are already in progress, where the documentation is already in place and where it is actually being built. And I would like humanitarian organisations to get what they need at this point, from regular or extraordinary means, to close at least one part of this crisis or loosen up, not to be empty, and that people will get what we consider to be a minimum today to survive. Red Cross, Karitas pays the bills. And not the billboards for the beauty salons, but the billboards for schooling, for housing and so on and so forth. And here, in my belief, we have a lot of work, a lot of understanding and punishment for those who have thoughtlessly been rich on account of those who have landed at the institutions and at the Red Cross today. And, dear sir, you've talked about this before, you should stop the employment institutions because they're there, they're going to do hairstyles or what I know. Okay. They could have been shut down four years ago, three, two. Why didn't you stop them? Today you're advising us to stop them. And I believe you were joking when you said that. If this is what you seriously think we need to end the employment facility in this economic crisis that we're in, then, please, you probably missed the place where you said it. My thoughts are a hundred percent where the wealth, where they've become rich, I'm not going to tell the tycoons, you've already marked those tycoons in the previous term because you know them, but where they dared to storm power, where they were allowed to do what they wanted just because they were on the right side. And to find the culprits, that companies, where it is possible to consolidate them, of course, that the government will not have problems with companies like Intereuropa, Luka, and there is another company that I believe will somehow be able to solve today. But please, it's the end of the hair god thing, and here we have to hit the table and finish for now. Not popular, very difficult and very bad time to rule, but someone has to do the job too. So once again, Borut Pahor has made the right decision, and I support the need to balance morale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Greetings to the Minister and the director of the Directorate! I must say that I certainly support the proposal for a rebalancing. It is obvious that what has been accomplished with professional, professional work and after many days of coordination from this financial bag of ours has been the most manageable. I'm sure we have a few more spares. The government and the team are better from month to month, and I'm sure we'll be successful despite the difficult and responsible times. I wouldn't want to look back too much. First of all, I'm interested in looking forward to what we can do, and the reasons why we got to the balance. I think the balance is also on the right track because it takes over a number of legal matters from the past. Let me rephrase them with numbers. Salaries in public authorities and public institutions require an additional amount of EUR 142 million, social transfers of EUR 213 million, and the public service of rail transport almost 30 million. And what is most important is the package of anti-crisis measures proposed by the Government, the law on partial full-time subsidisation, worth €230 million. Of the larger numbers, the very important ones, the law on subsidising the student diet of €32 million and then the funds for emergency programmes, including culture in these times, cannot be forgotten, an additional €16 million. An important story, municipalities receive an additional €42 million in financial compensation. I tell you, at the local level, at the level of municipal self-government, we will know how to use each additional euro in a useful way. There are problems that the country is dealing with, and that is exactly the case, and perhaps the policies of the municipalities will be touched even more concretely, even more closely. People who lost their jobs, people who don't get extra jobs, people who don't have rents, they don't have heating bills, they don't get any more jobs. And even the congregations for the rebalans that we have already adopted in most of the world, we also devote a large portion of our resources to people, human capital. What meter of asphalt will in some other times be easier to implement, but simply on the ground people need to be helped to overcome their distress and survive on a daily basis. It also seems important to me that payments of the public telecommunications network's investments are normally due and that these payments have been allocated an additional EUR 50 million. And the law in this area is not ideal, but it is. Maybe I miss today's debate, we talk a lot and we're discussing how we're going to share, and much less how we're going to create and acquire more. That's why I think it's an important story of investing in the economy. The Ministry of Economy receives an additional €49 million and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs 287, the Ministry of Higher Education and Science and Technology receives an additional €60 million. Of course, these are investments in additional jobs, in development and we certainly support this. It is also necessary to highlight the Ministry of the Economy's action, namely that the Ministry of Finance devotes an additional €165 million to the economy, which is at a time when every million euro is difficult to obtain and provides large, important and needed money. I'm sure we have everyone's reserves inside the system and everywhere. We would save a lot of money if, of course, we unloaded all the entities in this country with unnecessary administration if we simplified the procurement system, if we improved the work in administrative units, so that when we build water, roads, sewerage, everything in the public interest would, of course, have an easier way to build a building permit. Thus, it is easier to obtain an obvious building permit for the weekend in a naturally protected area than for the municipality to obtain a new building permit for a cleaning plant, sewerage and plumbing. I am sure that the task and the obligations are still great and that, in this mandate, this government, as well as in better times, will certainly be successfully resolved. That there is not much to see about this balance, there is no indication that there are empty benches of opposition Members tonight. It is also true that we are not splitting up on this subject, but that we are pooling our strengths, goals and resources, just as we were able to have a quality debate and a debate in what is good for Slovenia, even yesterday on the Committee on Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. When US President Roosevelt began working on the resolution of the financial crisis in the 19th year, he sought to create a system, a kind of social defence mechanism that was actually meant to save America and the world. He named this system "new deal" and I hope that there are at least a few observations of the Slovenian "new deal" in this rebalancing. "New Deal" also means favouring those industries and those investments, investments that will strengthen the productive part of our economy and incapacitate speculators. Will that really happen? This, of course, is an open question. There's probably no such ambition. So far, we're still in the phase of putting out fires. So you save what you get rid of. Today we have heard many parables of the sea, of the sea, of the ports or of the only port of the Republic of Slovenia. We've heard some inaccurate data. If we look at objective indicators, we will see that this very factory of so-called golden eggs, which was foretold by a triumphalist fellow Member, is in severe distress today. To halve the profits, to increase its debt by 5%, to halve or reduce the net return on capital by as much as 52% and the net return on assets by 60%. Recently, Mr Chastel, a party colleague of the Member who spoke about golden eggs, asked the Government to assist Luka with a financial injection within the framework of the budget and in the context of the rebalancing. The liquidity crisis in a giant called Luke Koper is on the palm of his hand. They have recently tried, thank God, to sell or sell 14% of their own shares in the Intereuropa. Manever was blocked because it was public and the unions called. But all of this shows that there's actually a panic in Luka. And this panic is the result of at least a few years of speculation accounts that eventually turned out to be destructive. Therefore, I repeat, finding answers to this recession means what my predecessor, Comrade Križman, has already said, seeking also responsibility for the causes of this crisis and this recession. There's something global, something indigenous, ours, local. We can deal with the locals and hope to be a part of this. As the Minister for the Environment is here, I would stress once again that the greatest disadvantage of this rebalancing is the approach to programmes on energy efficiency and renewable resources, while at the same time our approach or reduction of funds to be allocated to programmes that draw European funds from cohesion funds. I insist on this, even though I have heard that this balance is environmentally oriented and in favour of these programmes. Unfortunately, by numbers, I see that we have halved the allocated funds, instead of 27 million, I read that 13.5 million is foreseen and that we are trying to partially offset this deficit with an amendment that requires an additional 3.7 million. I hope this amendment is adopted. I know there are two versions of the amendment. One version is proposed by the largest opposition party and the other by the Finance Committee. Well, in the end, we'll define ourselves to these amendments. But I ask why, at this point, we do not give the attention needed to respond to those demands for new energy, to the more efficient use of energy, which are one of the key issues of combating recession and for an efficient economy. I insist on this, and I hope that, given that my fellow Members and coalition colleagues have joined in this thinking, I hope that the Government will take a sober, effective approach to this and that it will be able to respond with the support of this amendment or in any other way that my imagination cannot now offer. Invest in the establishment of an effective economic recovery system. We must be careful that we do not repeat mistakes from the past, so that we do not repeat those tycoon steps that have led this country to the crisis. I join the assessments of the urgency of action, especially where the crisis threatens jobs and the social level of our population. Recently, I have also presented to the Government an initiative to help citizens and citizens who are in debt and who are solving their housing problems. It's those families and those individuals who bought the apartment and hired a debt for it, and now they're not able to repay that debt. The initiative is not demagogous, we have helped large financial institutions, banks, insurance companies, businesses, but we have not yet provided sufficient assistance to the families who will be hit by the impact of this crisis. I also consider this initiative, which I know was then transmitted by the People's Party. I have not seen something like this in this balance, but it is likely that there will be opportunities, and I hope that these discussions will create ideas that will benefit our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I would probably share my joy with many if I could find out and if the Government could find out that the 2009 budget balance is not needed. I'm sorry, it's not like that. The balance is needed because it is being prepared in a very different situation than the one that encouraged the adoption of the 2009 budget. As early as 2008, it is likely that the 2009 budget rebalancing should be considered, as some pre-election promises did not have a specific budget number, and then the government coalition decided on a second path, to amend ZIPRA, the law on the implementation of the budget in order to avoid it. I would be even more pleased if we could find out today that this is a budget rebalancing that will take us through 2009. We already know that the situation will not deteriorate further, that the growth situation of gross social product or domestic product will be even lower than planned, that we will have negative growth and that another balance will be needed. This, of course, does not change the need for us to accept a rebalancing with such numbers because it was prepared on the data that was valid a month ago. And the next will be prepared on data that will be valid, say, within a month or maybe another day later, although these data we know today are already calling after the budget rebalancing. But such a situation is, we have found ourselves in such a situation and we will actually have to resolve the problems we face. And since we are talking about the budget prepared by the former coalition, it is also possible to reiterate that today we would have looked at the future more easily if, in the years when we had high economic growth, when the conjunctura, when the gross social product grew faster than in some other countries, we had a minimal surplus in 2007, but not in 2006, and given the results achieved by some countries, this surplus could have been much higher than it was in 2007, and we would have some reserves. Of course, it is in the budget, whether it be the budget of local communities or this, our, state budget, always important to have sufficient resources on the revenue side to ensure the expenditure or expenditure side. Of course, between this revenue and expenditure are stories, sometimes also difficult stories, life stories of individuals who are fatally dependent on the budget adopted, including this adopted balance, not to mention the balance of the balance. I'm talking about people who have had a hard time surviving the so-called "fat cows" period when we had economic growth when the country was in bloom, and they had a hard time spending a month. How will these people survive now that we are in a situation like this? And when we talk on the one hand about reducing revenue also at the expense of reducing taxes, it is always necessary to have in mind a spending side where social transfers where these individuals are at risk groups that need these resources to survive. Previously it was said that it would be necessary to think about how much these social resources are, whether they are sufficient for a person to live a decent life, not to say, survival. It will be necessary to consider who is entitled to this aid for these funds. The number we use is probably higher from day to day. If we follow the situation in the field of humanitarian organisations, we see that there are empty warehouses, that there is no means to acquire the new living needs that people need to survive. In fact, we who don't need it, and we don't even know what the situation is, are people who need this help, who have to admit to themselves, or maybe their children and grandchildren, that they have to spend a day, a week, a month to get help on the Red Cross, and Karitas somewhere else. It's hard to understand those who haven't tried it on their skin. Therefore, given how this balance is prepared, I am thinking of the speed that was needed, in addition to taking counter-crisis measures, it is necessary to acknowledge all those who have worked on this balance and who, unfortunately, will still have to work on the balance sheet. I listened very carefully to Minister Franzi Križanič, when he explained the reasons in the introduction, as well as the results of these reasons in numbers and percentages in the budget balance, which we will adopt and decide on tomorrow, he concluded that it is an important development. I did not hear his assessment that it might be necessary, when we think about further development, whether it be railways or the so-called third development axis, whose spine is a fast road and will allow for further development of individual areas which now have problems with transport infrastructure, to consider that these deadlines for the adoption and placement of a particular project into the space, the acquisition of a building permit, the purchase of land and then physical construction can be reduced; they shortened in the way that a specific law is drawn up. That is why I am particularly warning and addressing the Minister for Environment and Space, who is here to give the Government serious thought to this proposal, which the Minister of Finance is talking about. I should probably add another address, this is the Ministry of Transport, for example. But if we're talking about the government as a team, it's good that the government really thinks about preparing a solution to speed up these procedures, and in this way also launch this development cycle that somehow stopped. I would like to comment on some of today's statements. Of course, I am aware that the Presidents are very difficult to hold a meeting of the National Assembly when, in fact, and I am doing so myself, we are all talking about everything and it is difficult to follow these discussions and it is difficult to limit them to the Rules of Procedure. Sometimes, however, one of the colleagues should be warned when he goes, not beyond the Rules of Procedure, which happens over and over again, but when he goes over the threshold of good taste. There's been a lot of this in this room lately, in the National Assembly. And when I listened to one of the discussers who had gravely insulted his colleague Dejan Levanič, you sent him to kindergarten once before, now that he has matured to the point that he may have outgrown you in many ways, you are, of course, putting him in his arms of actions that he has not done and evaluating them from your point of view. You probably know these stories very well. When I listened to this discussion, the thought became clear that maybe we could introduce another measurement unit to fill in, and I'm not going to name it by which we could name it. Once in my introduction, I finished my performance with a mining greeting: "Good luck." But when I listen to some debates, I should replace it with a fireman's: "Help!"
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister and Madam Director! Let me first say something general at the expense of this several hours of lengthy debate. It is difficult to attach to the sarcastic remarks that the previous government is responsible for everything, including the crisis in America, when it is undeniable that today we are discussing the balance of the budget drawn up by the previous government. This is a real fact that cannot be changed, but on this government, which is now capable of doing so and which is my government, of course, it is to draw up a balance in the light of the changed circumstances and in the light of the marital legacy left by the previous government. And since I have also tracked others in the discussions on the working bodies with the ministers who were coming to explain the balance, I must say that, in the light of the familiar faces of the ministers, the previous budget was not unknown, because they probably participated and knew how it was with these things. But I have a general conclusion to make. I am alone in four working bodies, two working bodies have applied to discuss the budget as interested working bodies and two have not. It is interesting that the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development did not report to the discussion as an interested working body, and this is one of those working bodies where the rebalancing increased the volume of resources. And one can only wonder why the president of the working body did not find it worth discussing. For example, I can understand that the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities has not done so because it can discuss a very small part of the budget. This is only about the work relating to the Ombudsman and nothing else. But when I heard the debate on the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth and on the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, it seemed to me that I was hearing a debate on two completely different rebalancings, although the starting points were exactly the same. This, however, is that the rebalancing must take account of the new situation, the macroeconomic situation, and that the rebalancing must take into account the consistent fulfilment of the legal obligations that were adopted in the previous mandate. But the debate was going on as if we were talking about two different rebalances. The level of satisfaction on the opposition side was significantly different. But if I think about the rebalancing myself, then I would like to point out that, with the satisfaction that I feel when the budget is in these two committees or these two departments - and this is the resources of the three ministries, this is the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education and Sport and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs - that the volume of funds has increased here, but I have some general conclusion that my satisfaction is slightly diminishing. It is simply a matter of complying with the legal provisions relating to the new pay relations and the provisions that these amendments have brought about. It is also part of the changes or consequences of the laws we have adopted - already mentioned several times today the law on diocese diet, and we could also mention the law on free kindergarten for another child and so on. Not misunderstood; all these measures are good because they make life easier. They thus provide better pay for the work done on the one hand, on the other hand in the new circumstances facilitating the penetration of families with children through life. However, in order to take action to ensure a development social policy in order to increase funds in those parts to the extent that this drive to overcome the bad situations is stronger, and not in all cases an item can be found in the budget. What bothers me, from the debate on the working bodies to this debate in the plenary session, is that some of the claims that have already been known as misleading or inaccurate by the opposition and that have already been rejected in the working bodies are once again being heard in the National Assembly. Just a little case. The reduction in the grant rate has been explained several times on the committee, due to a different law on scholarships, which has calculated with a larger number of newly distributed scholarships. As a result of the increased censorship, so many scholarships were not distributed and there remained unallocated funds until the law was amended and the law would change censorship. You can't just change censorship like that! And that depends on the new invitation to tender. And it will be possible to implement scholarships and all that I am explaining now only after a new invitation to tender, after the amendment of the law and with a new school year or school year. It's just one small thing we've talked about all the time. But, of course, in these times, when I give it to the old ones, who said, "The grain on the grain of the cake, the stone on the stone of the palace," that everyone still looks like a small and insignificant austerity measure, however, an important contribution to our relationship to the matter. Since we are now, so to speak, contaminated by waste, by living on unearned, unearned, credits, this has moved from us from that country, where some people like to follow their example, but yet if we are looking at how much money is being spent now, let's say in providing a warm meal for students, I am worried when I hear from individual schools how much food is going to go into nothing, not to talk about the other, how much more intervention resources will need to be arranged so that the food dispensers can also be used culturally. And there was probably too little thought about these things when we went down in criticism to the left and right. So allow me, after this general work, which I could add to it, to touch the proposal of the two amendments to show how quickly a bone can get stuck in our throat. I understand the well-intentioned nature of the proposed amendment, which provides funds for the implementation of social protection programmes amounting to €63 million. But when I look at where these funds are covered, then, of course, I'm a little stressed when I see that these funds are covered in all the ministries, in all the items that are so, roughly "pants" -- sorry the expression, but it's the most appropriate -- but really at all ministries. What this means for the functioning of these ministries - is another issue. That this is an extremely demagogic proposal by the amendment, I do not think there is a particular need to convince. Now I'd like to tell you one more case. Earlier, someone mentioned in the debate what this cultural policy is, which does not take into account the unanimous decision to ensure that the state celebrates the 150th anniversary of the transfer of the Bishop's seat from Shent Andraz to Maribor. Because I know exactly how the debate was going when we adopted the conclusions, and because I also know exactly how the debate on the committee was going on now, at the time of the rebalancing, it is interesting to say that the Minister explained that the line for national celebrations is moving to the Ministry of Culture. And so don't mind, it's really two-faced if the Member here is circumcised, whether the State does not wish to give, or the Government, or the Minister of Culture of State funds, while at the same time the same parliamentary group from which the proposal for such a solution or the author of this comment suggests that the State's funds for celebrations should be reduced by more than half. The item here is 654,000 and a few more euros, but it is expected to decrease by 370,000 euros. Only so much about consistency, and sometimes old people say they don't know what the right hand does. However, it would be good to be more precise and consistent in financial matters that are numerically measurable. Of course, I want the rebalancing workers to have their intentions as well as possible achieved and that the time for the rebalancing of the balance, if necessary, would be shifted as far into the future as possible, because this would mean that the counter-crisis measures of such nature are also of such nature, so that we will not be flooded because someone has talked about drinking water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I find that I apologize to the general work. [[...]] My conclusion is wrong. Please, anyone else who wants to discuss it, please sign up. Mr. Miran Jerič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u133	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Honourable Director of the Directorate for Budget, Honourable Members, Members. Nice greetings for me, too. In the general debate on the budget alone, I did not intend to take a call, I thought I would then take a call at the specific work and in the amendments tabled. But given that more or less all the debaters were talking about both the general and the special work, I decided not to wait alone for the Ministry of Environment and Space and to come to the end. What I would like to say in this general debate is, above all, I would like to point out that in my view the rebalance is both counter-crisis and, of course, developmental or social. In my opinion, it is the right step in the right direction. Or this step is big enough, but it will somehow show time. The revised macroeconomic forecasts that we are witnessing every day lead me to conclude that there is likely to be another rebalancing of the State budget for 2009 in this year, as some new measures will be needed, which we could not foresee in terms of macroeconomic frameworks and indicators. In my opinion, in the world and in Slovenia, there is no expert who can predict how deep this financial or economic crisis will be, whether it has reached the bottom, how long it will take, and what the consequences will be. And this economic and financial crisis will need to be responded to, and I think the Government is doing so to propose some measures, laws that are also covered by the 2009 budget rebalancing. Now I've got some concrete stuff. The predecessors also talked about national programmes. In my view, 2009 is an opportunity to outwind all national programmes in all areas. Some are no longer operational, some have not been provided with sufficient financial resources, and in some, given the changed economic and financial situation, they are not real priorities. I think some national programmes will also have to be adopted. This is mainly the area of transport. It is irresponsible, in my view, that all these years we have not been able to adopt a national programme for the state road network and that we are implementing investments in this area on the basis of the priorities that individual ministers or individual Members or mayors have in their own budget line. I don't think that's right. Just as we have a national road network programme, it is right to have a national road network programme and identify the first priorities or main priorities. Behind the highways, behind the fast roads must be the main roads of the first and second classes. It is impossible to wait in Zasavje for the main road of the second class all these years. Even in previous years, we have not been able to provide money for the preparation of the State Spatial Plan in the state budget. I am pleased that, both in the rebalancing and the development programme, I have seen that in 2010, money has also been provided to finally reach the state spatial plan, to all the professional foundations that are the basis for this important investment to be carried out. Unlike many, I think that in 2009 a number of legislation adopted in the previous term and, above all, in the electoral year should be amended as a preparation for the 2010 budget. I don't think we're rich enough to have everything for free. Those who can pay for their children, let us pay them, those who cannot pay them, but they must receive an even greater subsidy. I think that's what needs to be done. And probably in some other areas, not to mention another story. Transport - I mentioned in one part. What bothers me most is that in the last four years we have not done enough to place so-called development axes in space or even in the balance and then into implementation. The development axis is the basis for the development of a local community. The local communities, which are not located in the fifth and tenth motorway corridors, are now in a subordinate position, as far as development is concerned, towards the local communities situated along these motorways. And that's irresponsible. For the development of Zasavje, it is much more important that we bring the 3rd development axis than that we have the Zasavsko tomorrow or I do not know what the landscape is. I think it is more important that we build on ensuring investment in infrastructure that is important. As far as European funds are concerned. We discussed a lot at the last session of Parliament on the use of these funds. I don't want to use European money like I did in the previous term. I would like the Government and individual ministries to take more than a month to decide which calls, to what extent, to what extent individual projects must achieve and to follow these objectives. In the previous mandate, we have, I tell you, just a case for an operational programme in the area of regional development, had quite a few calls. Do you know how long we've had? From invitation to selection of operators, to completion of works, to the presentation of the situation and to the control of the field - four months. Now show me the heroes who will be able to prepare these programs and run them. You will see if anyone will control all these projects, we will find that even in the regional development programmes they have not been, that they will never achieve the objectives that have been written down and anything else. I want targeted calls, concrete projects that will focus European money on investments that will bring real results to the countries, local communities, the economy and others. As far as energy is concerned, I'd just agree with the predecessors. I think it is necessary to change the national energy programme and decide what is most appropriate in this country in the energy field at this point in time for investment. I support the lower Sava, the construction of hydro power plants. I wish one day we could build hydro power plants in the middle of Savi. What bothers me at the bottom of Savi is how the Water Fund enters into financing this investment. I think it is necessary to redefine the policy of spending money from the Water Fund. This money is intended for a water-based investment throughout the country, for water-based investments in Posav, which must be carried out together with the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava, because they also provide flood safety. And other resources should be provided, not just the Water Budget Fund. And of course, 75% of this money is about this investment. The last thing I'm going to talk about is community funding. In a way, I am pleased that we have reached a step forward at the average level, but I will tell you that it is too small, despite the economic and financial crisis, and I will give you a concrete example. I think the marriage is bad. It needs to be changed as soon as possible. He was not good before because he was in some way neglecting small congregations, and there is no good current law that in some ways favors small congregations, which are miles long, which have a long way of local public roads, not to mention other criteria. Why isn't he good? This law does not take into account any specifics. None! I'll tell you the oak story. 10,000 and a few people, 58 square kilometers, the proportion of the older than 65, younger than 15-- I'm not going to mention it. Tell us where within these criteria is culture, education, social protection. Where are the different social measures that local communities have to implement within these criteria? They're nowhere! There's no correction. It is important that you have many miles of local roads, public roads, and that you are large. That's impossible. I tell you, the municipalities in which personal income is below the Slovenian average, today we are beating the bell. It is difficult for us to provide money for development projects in order to cover all subsidies in the area of rents, social contributions such as this or otherwise. Take a look; what we brought with us from kindergartens, we have not burdened the local community. We still provide 20% for each child involved. In Hrastnik, on average, people pay 18% of the price. Everything else is provided at the moment by the municipality and partly by the country for another child and so on. I think there is still a lot to be done in this area. I wish this law would change, or it would be bad for all local communities. Finally, what I was waiting for in the debate in particular work, only one amendment supported by the Government, but not by the mother's working body, but I don't know why. This is the area of the Ministry of the Environment. This is about environmental investments in waste management. We wanted investment in the Regional Waste Management Centre in Hrastnik, because we are a second-class region covering municipalities from Lithuania to Radeč. The government supported it, the mother's working body didn't. I hope this government support will prevail. Why? In April, we will receive a decision on the use of cohesion funds. In order to be able to carry out the call and select the contractor, this item must be placed both in the balance sheet and in the plans of the development programmes. That I won't be too long and leave some time for the special part and the amendments - thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Ambassador Silva Crnugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u135	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Hello, Minister, Madam Director! Today we are listening to quite a broad debate on the budget or on the budget balance that was adopted in 2007. We have heard about the changed economic situation, we have heard about the crisis, we have heard about how and in what way different theorists, the world economists have views on the resolution of this crisis, and it is quite surprising that we have not seen another balance in the mandate of the previous government since or at least last year. All right; economic opportunities have changed, the balance has to be made. We find that the situation has changed dramatically. I think that according to the legislation that we are so eloquently eloquent, we need to start thinking fairly constructively, extremely constructively. What does that mean? This means that we need to think in this direction that we will adopt action plans at 6, if not even for 3 months, and that we will correct the corrections to certain budget items adopted at this meeting of the National Assembly to 3 months. I can see that, in this year's National Assembly, we will actually have to find out what the legislation, what all the obligations we have made with this legislation - not only financial obligations, but also other obligations related to various matters, not only to matters relating to local communities but also to the European Community, to various cohesion funds, and not least to the way in which public calls are issued and all that. I think we will have to find so much energy and so much will that we will all find optimal solutions here in this House. Because unless we are looking for an optimal solution for everyone, it will be possible to effectively implement this budget balance as just one distraction and debate on who is to blame. Last Saturday, I read an article by Dr. Mark Kos. On whose fault we have missed the accession between the developed countries to the European Union. I recommend it. It's published in Ljubljana's Diary and it'll probably give you a lot of thought. It's me. Many times in the past, even ten years ago, Dr. Marko Kos was able to put some things in the right place. That is why I think that the proposal for a budget rebalancing is actually offered as a Santa Claus. This government has tried in one way to give everyone, all budgetary users, from local communities, to culture. I think positively that this government has actually devoted a great deal to education, a lot of development and research and a lot of culture, and this is the kind of thing and the paradigm that will bring us into a better tomorrow or the way out of this big black hole or the stranger that we're all talking about. I think we all need to look around and see what we can do in the coming days or months and years that we will have to spend together not in the most pleasant atmosphere. I hope that this energy, as well as the means of communication, will be able to bring together all Members of the position and opposition, and that our young colleague, like my colleague Dejan Levanič, will not be confronted by beginners or any trainees. Their will and intentions are actually the best for this country and for all Slovenes and all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I have to say, some things are hard to understand. It is true that I am learning quickly, and I hope that I will also be in this case. Look, we've heard a few lessons about what the Member of Parliament can talk about, something the Member can't talk about. I think we have heard this the second time today, but yesterday we have decided that Members can say what they want under Article 82 of the Constitution and that they are free to do so and that we must not criticize them. It's hard to understand. But I'm going to learn that too, and obviously that's the logic of one piece. As far as the rest of this is concerned, I'd say so. Of course, we're talking about the budget balance. That makes sense. It is also logical that the budget was adopted in 2007 when different economic conditions were different. However, it is irresponsible to report to the government of Janez Janš that we are now accepting the budget to correct it with a balance. It is irresponsible simply because it is a perfectly normal act, because every government, since we have two-year budgets, every government has prepared it and also yours; and it is quite logical that it has prepared it. But it is true that there are some indisputable facts, as I have heard from the other side. Indeed, it is undeniable that the high economic growth of the previous term is not a result of the fine time that this economic growth would bring from the West, but something has to be done for it. I've told you a few times how long it took to do it. Of course, the result is that the previous government has done something, including that economic growth in Slovenia was twice as high as the average of the European Union or even higher than in some other countries, such as Italy and so on. I don't feel embarrassed to be able to congratulate you in two years' time if you manage to have better economic growth for as long as the average in the European Union is, but even though you are now talking about minus 4. If she's as good as ours, I'm gonna find words of praise, and I'm not gonna say it came from the West with a nice weather: it's got to be done. That's one thing. That's another thing. The undeniable fact is that you claim that we have not saved enough. Yes, hell, the indisputable facts are also that, for the first time in the last term, public spending has fallen, with no government, only in the previous term. Secondly, the number of employees of public servants fell. I heard earlier that more money is needed for wages, and I will also comment on that. And the undeniable fact is that there was a surplus of the budget, which I had heard just before, and I like it very much that I heard it from your side, because you said it was a minimal surplus and a few months ago that it wasn't. Let me touch the salary money - too bad there's no finance minister here. I believe the secretary of state when she said that the increase in salary is in the police department and that you no longer intend to hire. Let me draw your attention to the next matter. In 2003 and 2004, the previous government in Brussels signed a new contract, I think 3,098 police officers. The additional negotiations, due to Schengen, of course, have increased the number of police officers by just 1,500, through hard work in Brussels. And I don't know - and that's why there's been quite a lot of savings in this budget account - I don't know the European country, but I've been monitoring them all the time because they've been preparing Schengen measures and entering the Schengen area, which, after entering the Schengen area, would increase the number of police officers. I would like to point out that the previous government has even adopted a special law that said it would employ for a period of five years. Why? Because it envisaged gradual forgiveness, especially with the time when Croatia will enter the European Union. And it's completely insane that the number of cops gets bigger and pays for it. What needs to be done in the police force is that there will not be just 4,000 and some walking on the road and 5,000 sitting in the offices; something has been done in the previous term, but not enough. I think a better measure is in this direction, not an increase in employees. The talk was about the pension supplement that it was something ugly, that it was something that was subject to, that - I don't know how, that is, this is our amendment. I myself am also the drafter of the law, the first to be signed under this law, on a single dradnjan supplement. And that's why we prepared this amendment. We do not take more than a million euros in any ministry on our proposal, except three. For a few hundred thousand euros, all ministries will survive. However, it would be good for you to prepare this law, and it is not, even though you have committed yourself in the coalition agreement to make it, to pay the supplement in the expected January and the second half of the year, that is not in the agreement nor in the Government's normative programme of work. It is therefore right that, even with what I agree with what Member Luka Juri says when he says that consumption needs to be increased - of course, everyone knows that, who know the first page of what economic books, but if we increase consumption this time, if those who have the least in this country increase it, it will not be a bad thing. After all, you will fulfill what you yourself have written and what you have promised the voters, especially one side of the coalition that has promised this. A brief response to the matter surrounding the University of Primorska. Of course, your government immediately settled, I think I have the correct information, 2 million euros of some debt from the University of Primorska. But it is necessary to know something, an independent and autonomous University in Primorsk, that independently and autonomously and illegally spent 2 million euros, which you have independently and autonomously paid now, and we did not want them. But the joke is that if we allow independent authorities in this country, tomorrow the Clinical Center will build two hospitals, the University of Maribor tomorrow three colleges - since the independent government will also settle it. That way we can't go, we just can't go; and that's the problem! So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u138	Thank you very much. And Mr. Alexander Zorn. You weren't in the hall. Okay. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u139	The spirit of each Member is probably always present in the Chamber and present. Thank you, too, for opening up this issue of consumption. This is a macro-economic view of the promotion of economic machinery. The neo-liberalist monetary approach of Vilton Freedman, who spoke of a small country called "little government" in contrast to a large country of the Kenyan type, experienced a flood in Western Europe some 20 years ago. Not yet in Slovenia, that is, at the time we were still dealing with the origin of our country. Your president was a member of the Union of Communists until recently, and he probably did not deal so much with the subject, and the question actually came to Slovenia four years ago. There was much talk at the time about neoliberal measures, the most notorious was the single tax rate and the reduction of consumption and the withdrawal of the country from the economy. Of course, all acceptable and OK, but this withdrawal or reduction in consumption was happening at the expense of the state services, which have deteriorated because they have been valued and have become less accessible. We stress that, not only with this budget, but as the Prime Minister has already said, given that we are in the same boat after the crisis, even in the following budgets, jobs should be encouraged, consumption promoted, and so should the active role of the country. Therefore, the welcome deficit in this crisis period, and I hope that it will be the same, of course not with the same deficit, but at the same pace, the next and the next and the next budget will encourage the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u140	Mr. Zorn, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u141	Thank you very much. All I have is a supplement and an explanation of what I've said in the past tense. In short, it's the year of Slomškov and the celebration of Slomškov. At its meeting, the Committee on Culture and Education said precisely that it was for the Government to take his opinion into account and to place Slomškov's year as "his year" and to declare Slomšk's celebration a national celebration. This is what the entire committee has been committed to, and especially its president, who is said to be from this environment and who has therefore been specifically involved, because, after all, she has brought a man from the Church to the National Assembly who has taken up this, a man who has taken part in it from the university, and I think he has some connections with the congregation. Because that's an unusual suggestion. All three areas I've said are for a state celebration. So the municipality, the university and the diocese, which is unusual in Slovenia. So this in itself says that it is not a religious matter, but a regional matter of some kind. That's the first thing. The second thing that happened when these celebrations came from the Government to the Ministry of Education, and the Minister suddenly completely forgot something like this and the Chairperson of the Committee on Culture gave her a table of decrees or a proposal by the Committee on Culture in three minutes, was that we heard that it might be too expensive. We have already told the First Committee that it does not have to be a expensive celebration, that these are the three institutions that support it, which means that it can be so cheap, and that it does not need to be much time to report it, because it has already been reported. So today to talk about the duality of the proposalr, that is me, and the duality of the non-proposer, this is the chairman of the committee who wanted it and proposed it is a bit comical. Let me tell you something else. This party is interesting, it can be cheap, it can be great. The Mariborians and the locals will decide who proposed it and who suddenly did not want to propose it anymore. I think that's the answer that's definitive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Replica ma'am mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u143	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You were, too, if I'm not mistaken, in that session and you know how things went. But that things will also be written in a magnetogram as it is appropriate to say that, as President, I have invited three mayors and rectors of the university to this meeting and that the meetings are public and open and Mr. Pastor Lipovšek has come to the committee and he wants to speak and he has spoken. Before that, he had already presented the matter on the State Council. So much for who invited. Indeed, the proponents of this to say that the usual city celebration, which is every September as a city holiday, is a national road from my professional area so well founded that I have not seen any embarrassment in fully supporting it and I am very pleased to note that it has not been on the committee of anyone who has any concerns. [[...]] Indeed, these concerns arose in the work of Slovenian media because it was not possible to compare Slomsk with Trubar, because the intention of the organizers was also that Slomško's year would somehow be a pandant to Trubar's year, we did not defend it. In particular, I am aware that the National Assembly can only decide on a part of a non-church character, so I advocated a state celebration at the lay level. This was also accepted. However, if the Minister did not know the conclusions and it did not come to what we had adopted on the Committee, that is four conclusions, but I thought it appropriate to hand them over to her. And only in this direction did my debate go to yours, Mr Vice-President of the Committee, because it was said there that the item for all state celebrations is now at the Ministry of Culture. And if we are now reducing this item with some amendment, we are also reducing the actual possibilities of bringing the celebration of Slomsko as a national celebration. And I'm not going into all the things that the Church has prepared, and I guess she'll have them in Maribor tomorrow, too, because that's the second part. I do not care, but three partners have prepared this program and I think it would be good for Slomšek to come into the All-Slovenian consciousness, as, thank God, Maister came into the All-Slovenian consciousness, unfortunately quite late. Because if some things in his day were to be better understood in the center, then history might also be slightly different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Who else wants to discuss the general proposal for a rebalancing? I can only see one hand. Anyone else? I'm opening the application. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u145	It would be time to just figure out it's 25. 3. 2009 today and that everything you're trying to keep up, how great it was, and how afraid you are that it's going to happen in this term is past time. Mr Gorenak, we have begged Mr Bajuk, Minister and Prime Minister Janša not to rent credits for God's sake and not to build highways on credit alone. No, times are best. Credits are cheap. Yeah, he was named financier of the year in a magazine that buys that name. You know how it goes. If you take two, three billion euros of credit in a bank, they'd love to sponsor you as the best financier. We begged you here. No! No! The public debt has gone up! You can say it was a surplus and I don't know what. But you forced yourself to vote in the form and content of the 2007 final account, as you imagined, regardless of whether the numbers, reality, were different. I don't want anything else, but I was sitting here by myself and now that we're always talking about things as they are, and we tell people what's going on. Nothing will help us today what it was and how it would be, if it were, and so on. I only hope that this budget balance will hold. I really want the programmes and some directions to be overwinded, not because of the deletion of one, but to find out what is real, what Slovenia needs most. And there's something else that's bothering me about this amendment. They're probably the proponents who were going to delete the half for the celebration. I think it's that parade that was planned next year or another year ahead. Maybe she won't now or she won't have to if she's not there for a 15-year-old. At the time, it was said it would be for a 20-year-old. But obviously you don't need it now and you suggested that this item should also be deleted, which, of course, I welcome if it were intended for this. The question is, of course, whether it is necessary to delete so much money for these celebrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u146	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Yes, Dr. Gorenak, you have a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u147	Thank you very much and of course very briefly. When you talk about public debt, you need to know that I have before me the information that Dr. Bayuk had at the time, when he was declared financier of the year, and when he performed in the National Assembly. After a public debt, Slovenia is second-best among the countries of the old countries of the European Union. The better country is only Luxembourg, all the other countries are significantly worse and Slovenia is below the average of half of the European Union. That's 40%. It is said that the prize of Dr. Bayuk, who has no opportunity to speak here, which he has earned honestly, has not bought. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u148	Mr. Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I hope they'll allow it, Mr. Anderlich. Look, we're not protesting anything, and we're not challenging anything because today we're dealing with a rebalancing. The balance is needed; the balance is needed because macroeconomic circumstances have changed and perhaps even structures on the revenue and expenditure side have changed in one part. It's an objective fact. Even after a month or two from now we will be adopting the 2010 budget, it is likely that we will be adopting a budget rebalancing in 2010, as macroeconomic circumstances, the starting point, will change in that time. And if the starting points are good, then we'll get to the boat, but if the starting points for the next budget are bad, then we'll just let that submarine that we're witnessing to her down to the depths a little bit. However, the fundamental debate that I think makes sense today in this budget rebalancing is whether such a proposal for a budget rebalancing as proposed by the Government is appropriate for the consideration of the National Assembly or not. Here, both the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance and also the President of the Committee of the National Finances, we later said, in the view of the Group of Members, that the macroeconomic situation is not as described in the starting points of the budget rebalancing; and this is a fundamental problem of this debate. Here we are just wondering whether it is reasonable and reasonable to discuss the balance of the budget, of which four are, in summary, those of these three who, acting as the most responsible for adopting this budget balance in the National Assembly, have said that they do not adhere to these assumptions. And I ask you, who is responsible, that the National Assembly should address the balance of the budget as proposed - that it does not. And even when we heard that, all the coalition Members who debated spoke about the quality of this budget balance. Despite the fact that the President of the Government said that the starting points "do not count" that the Minister of Finance had said that the starting points "do not count" and that the Chairman of the Finance Committee was the former, Prime Minister and former Finance Minister, Mr Rob said that this was not true. This is a fundamental question. And I told you earlier in the debate whether it makes sense for you to ask us and urge us to vote for something that is not true in the starting point and what everyone has said is not true. This is a fundamental question. The second thing that I also find problematic about this budget rebalancing is the following. We have adopted a strategy, I think the development of Slovenia. It clearly states that Slovenia's goal is to achieve 3% higher economic growth than the average of the European Union. This budget balance or the balance sheet of the budget, which is not real, has the basis that we are 2% worse or planning lower economic growth than now the average of the European Union. We have fundamentally changed the concept, fundamentally changed the starting points and also, it appears, the Government is unable to achieve them. I think that there should also be a lot of emphasis on why these changes have taken place from the country's development strategy. I don't think there's any reason, but there's no reason at all. It also seems very problematic to keep on saying something that is a problem: that diaphragm is a problem, and even in the back there are studies that support the introduction of diaphragm, because this ensures not only the diet of those who have, but also that the diet is compulsory, because in high school, even if parents have enough resources for the diaphragm, students do not eat, but they probably use these resources for other purposes. And the goal of this project was also to try to raise students to eat regularly. And I think that these discussions are very depressed, including the discussions on scholarships and more. However, I would like to say to all those historians who have discussed a lot about history that, in the previous term, we have resolved very many unnecessary matters that have burdened citizens or the budget, or very cheaply. We have abolished stickers, discounted notary services, introduced checks on administrative units for substantially lower amounts, arranged legal services - what you are now repairing and will come back in a different way, and so on. In short, you're doing an anti-reform of what we citizens have wasted our lives with. Just a word or two more about the highway program. Perhaps you will recall that, if I am not mistaken, we adopted a resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in April 2004. Mr Anderlič then led the coordination of this resolution for about six months. At first there was something in it, and then it went out, and then on some amendment he hung up on the whole extra program and so on. That's how it went. However, the resolution in the back also has a scheme, a financial plan. And it would be good for everyone who talks about what the former finance minister did to look at that scheme. There are foreseen liabilities, there are foreseen own funds, there are foreseen bonds issued. And that scheme would be implemented if that resolution were to be followed. Three weeks after this resolution was adopted in the National Assembly, the former government, led by the current Chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr Ropa, adopted a decision on the accelerated construction of certain motorways. You'll probably remember that very much, Mr Anderlich, and that's what I'm saying right now. That accelerated construction, because the resolution on the national programme has not changed, it has not rebalanced, it has not become new, it has caused what you have adopted and what you have decided. You went with a decision passed by the National Assembly to repair the starting points for the construction of highways. And I don't think it's right that in this way you're also in the National Assembly talking about why different funds were needed for certain projects, and in the vast majority they're also in line with what was done there. Speaking of this information and history, it is necessary to say everything, including what you have done, and what your government has adopted has implications in this structure of the highway. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Probably didn't shut down their own funds. Mr Vice President, please [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u150	I was just about to warn you it's not a question of doubt. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u151	to warn the restless Member Anderlich, who is working very hard to disturb the speaker, but himself demands absolute silence and obedience of all in the National Assembly. [[...]] Mr. Vice President, I'm done, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u152	Thank you. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The vote on the general part of the draft budget rebalancing proposal will be held tomorrow, on Thursday 26 March 2009, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We are moving on to the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Because no one wants to discuss, we're moving on. Excuse me. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u153	If you'll excuse me, just a question. How are you going to proceed with the meeting? Will we then go after the budget users from case to case? That's all I'd ask for.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u154	We have a three-part discussion or consideration of this budget balance. The first part has already been graduated, the second part is a special part of the budget rebalancing proposal and the third part is a review of the amendments by user or by individual amendments. And we're going to process individual amendments in part three. Then we'll continue part four. Here you go, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u155	Thank you very much, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u156	You want to discuss it now?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u157	Yeah, about the special part of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u158	Because he was the only one who raised his hand, so I didn't open the application. Here you go, please. We are discussing a specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to draw attention to only one matter relating to the investment. This is the part that relates to investments in public health institutions. In general, we can see that maintaining the level of investment is an important part that we are counting on in countercyclical action. And there are also investments in health care. I would like to point out that, in the field of investment in public health institutions, there is a significant decrease in resources with a balance sheet. In order not to deplete investments, this year also provides for the drawdown of funds from the budget fund, which was designed to do so. And I would like to point out that, in view of the use of the funds from this fund in the coming years to keep up the pace of investments in healthcare, additional financial resources will need to be provided in the following budgets. I point out this from a simple point of view, as the needs for investment in health care institutions continue to exist after 2009. That is why I would like to draw attention to one of the important investments, this is an investment in oncology and radiotherapy within the framework of the University Clinical Centre in Maribor. I would therefore like to draw attention to this fact that, with this year's reduction in investment funds, it will be necessary to commit the Government or to remind it that in the coming years this item will have to be substantially strengthened in order to avoid a fall in investment in this important segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Although I have given you my word and I have also explained to you your question that this debate should be in the context of the general work, because I have already completed this work and there has been no application. Now that the hand is up again, do not ask me to correct, I will lead the session myself, Mr Chernač has asked for another word. Within this point or the next? I would like to ask you very much when I read what we will discuss if you follow me and apply appropriately for this debate. I will therefore cancel this by closing the debate on the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. I'm calling it off and getting the word, Mr. Blackach. He's the only one who raised his hand next to Mrs. Secretary of State Kamnareva. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna be a little short. I just wanted to express disagreement with individual items in the specific part of the budget or by reducing individual items that I think are essential and derogate from what has already been announced several times by the President of the Government and by the Government. This is an enormous reduction in competitiveness programmes, the halving of resources on programmes to promote efficient use and renewable energy, the removal of a number of programmes that provide infrastructure in specific areas, the removal of resources for water supply in the White Land, the removal of all resources for the complete protection of the Ptujsko Field groundwater, the removal of resources for the Dolenjska Waste Management Centre, the substantial reduction of resources for the drainage and treatment of waste water and the total supply of drinking water in the municipality of Tržič and so on. A number of those programmes, which are also linked to European funds and thus allowing for faster development, have been reduced or deleted. Therefore, on this occasion, because I have observed in the debate the intention of some ruling Members to be concerned about this area, I would urge them to support the amendments that we will be discussing in the third part, as this will allow at least one part of the funds to be maintained. This will not put other programmes at risk because I have drawn attention to two very large items in the budget, which are fictitiously set. One is 230,400,000, a fictitious figure of about 200 million and a total fictitious item of 50 million, a return on investment in telecommunications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u162	Thank you very much. As no one wants to discuss any more, the Secretary of State also cancels the special part of the budget balance, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 25. 3. 2009 With regard to the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to point out that it relates only to the reduction of funds in different sub-programmes within the framework of individual users, and this amendment is therefore fully discussed in the context of the first-mentioned user, namely the President of the Republic of Slovenia. You have before you a review of the amendments on the proposal for the 2009 budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm putting amendments in line for the debate. The one who wants to discuss the amendment, please. The first amendment is: User 1111, President of the Republic of Slovenia and other users with sub-programmes. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Mag. It's a crane.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Introductoryly, I'd still use a minute of time. Given that, in fact, all the debates that are on the subject of road and other programmes are actually looking at me. I want to inform you that I was only a minister for one year and this government is now the government of 35% of my time as a minister. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u164	Mr. Žerjav, I'd like to ask you nicely if you're discussing the amendment number this one and this one.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u165	I am speaking, of course, of the amendment which I have already mentioned in the presentation of the parliamentary opinion, when I said that, according to our assessment, the Slovenian People's Party, this rebalance is extremely insecure, and this is insecure in terms of reducing public spending, that is, exactly at item 402, Expenditure for goods and services. In this segment, which weighs almost a billion, we saved only 62.3%, or just over 25 million euros. I firmly believe that it is possible to save at least 10% or 100 million euros in this segment without major shocks. However, this would be possible if the President of the Government or the Government set clear objectives; unfortunately, this has not been done. It is impossible for anyone in public administration in this time of crisis to imagine that they can be wasted without restrictions. But unfortunately, these people don't feel like money has to be earned first so you can spend it later. They're used to spending, even so well and so hard, that it just can't happen to any of the items to leave some unused money on. God forbid, all the way to the last cent has to be spent. That means there must be someone above them who stops them. Unfortunately, I have a feeling that in this case, there was no one who could have stopped it. Of the 30 pompous austerity measures, only the wage segment results. That's where the Minister of Public Administration turned out. I myself have predicted that this measure will in fact be a measure that will carry 95% of all those 30 measures. In fact, the other measures are nothing. I can tell you that some people have even been denied in their own rebalancing. Speaking of copyright contracts, where it was said that they would fall by 10%, let's say in the judiciary, it was an increase of 300,000 euros. And I'm not going to go any further. It is more than obvious that the objectives or framework within which all budgetary consumers should move has not been defined. For all of this, our amendment is, in fact, our amendment. Unfortunately, we could not have amended the whole item 402, Expenditure on goods and services, as if this were possible, we would have done so. Therefore, we are reducing all those items of material costs that have been opened. This will save almost 24 million euros. I'm sure the government should actually do that, because that's also her responsibility. I hope and wish that this amendment, as it has received support from the Committee on Finance, would receive support today, or as part of the vote. The government may use these savings to help the economy or to reduce debt. Let me say that this is actually the only amendment that does not foresee an increase in spending, but exclusively saving in public administration, which, I think, is now at this time of crisis with all the other measures that are crucial. If the amendment is not adopted, I now predict that such a solution or similar solution will, in my opinion, have to be brought to the National Assembly relatively very quickly. Not for 10%, for a substantial amount. So I expect we won't wait a month or two again, let's do it now and limit ourselves if you want to, let's limit ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss user 1111? Here you go. Mr. Rogers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u167	Thank you so much for saying that. I, too, agree with my colleague Žerjav that money must be made first and then spent. And I would be happy if he himself, in his previous role in building highways, would build them with earned money, not borrowed from our children and grandchildren. But now it's about looking like a very nice amendment. While it is necessary to know, as did colleague Žerjav himself, that public servants were those who gave up part of their salary and thus made it possible for them to cut material costs in this budget and, of course, now I think it would be unwise, especially if you had listened to today's statements by representatives of the public sector unions, in this way, this is actually very unselective. I doubt that this will help to make the country more effective, although, as I say, at first sight, the amendment is very attractive. It surprises me, however, that the insufferable possibility of making amendments, on the one hand of this kind, and on the other hand a bunch of road infrastructures that are supposed to provide funds for projects that are, or are not, a national task, but are the tasks of local communities, but if they are a national task, it is likely that money can not be found for them in the budget during these times of crisis. Therefore, I think that the Slovenian People's Party could think more about these amendments when they were being tabled. I am surprised that there are also no initiatives in place to asphalt the courtyards of local Februarys and so on. These things cannot be afforded this budget if any previous budget can be made possible due to various political pressures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u168	Mr. Crane's replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u169	I would, Mr Vice-President, ask, but I would also ask the leadership of this High Council to introduce a higher level of communication in this house. Today we only listen to the obvious, the denial that I won't say a threat. And I've heard something like that myself this time. And it would be really good, in fact, for the benefit of all of us, for the leadership of this assembly to stop the debater on a regular basis, so that we do not talk in such a flat-rate way and, above all, that we do not defile each other. This isn't right and it's not fair. I think you agree, Mr. Rogers?Oh, my God! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] We're switching to user 1516, Nationality Office. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving to a user of 1536, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. [[No, no, ……]] I'm on it. User 1537, Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. [[There's no debate.]] User 2111 Ministry of Economy. I let one go. User 2011, Ministry of Justice. [[No, no, ……]] User 2111 Ministry of Economy. [[Not at all.]] Yeah, that's how you raise your hand. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u171	You immediately looked here, Mr. Vice President. Then there will be no dilemma.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u172	I never look in the same direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u173	This is a competition-enhancing programme, which I spoke about earlier in my special work. The funds are shrinking. There is a decline in funds on those programmes that have been announced to be supported, intensified. These are programmes that would enable polycentric development and allow for more equitable development in the whole of Slovenia. These are the programmes of the nine economic centres provided for in the resolution on the development of the Republic of Slovenia by 2023 or those strategic frameworks. So this is one important segment that has been set up, set up, and is now obviously going to be stopped. This also suggests that this government has no serious intention of decentralising Slovenia. It speaks of Slovenia becoming increasingly centralised, that individual centres will be strengthened and that the majority of the population in this country will be prevented from accessing infrastructure, services and everything they need in their environment in an equitable manner to enable them to function normally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u174	Thank you. We are moving to user 2121, Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of competition. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Well, interestingly, among those four whose assets for operation or wages are being reduced is the only Office for the Protection of Competition. Interestingly, for a short time we have listened to predictions from the highest summit about how regulators will be strengthened, or even promises, and ensure that their situation for material activity improves. A perfectly clear signal as to what this is all about. It is about making these authorities disabled, on the other hand preparing a basis for reorganising this work, because they have begun to be effective and they also need to reduce their potential for action when they are deprived of funds. For this reason, we propose that, at least in the minimum part, these funds be maintained.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Continue, user 2312, Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. No debate. User 2415, Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. Here you go. Please, introduce yourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u177	Yes, I represent myself, I am Guido Kres. Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I am sorry that we are no longer in this Chamber, because I do not know who I am now going to convince and get to support this proposal I am making. With user 2415, the Road Directorate, we propose an increase of 850,000 euros. With user 1511, the General Secretariat, we are reducing by €550,000 and the Geodetic Authority by €300,000. The amendment provides an additional €850 000 to be allocated to item 1350. Investment road maintenance. Of these, 300,000 are earmarked for the Vache beach project, with EUR 600,000 foreseen in 2009, and the development programme plan corrects it by providing 800 000 euros in the 2010 plan, 2011 375 000 euros in the 2012 plan and thus nothing in the 2012 plan. However, 550 000 euros are also earmarked for the project, a new road crossing facility with railways, with an estimated 600 000 euros in 2009 and a plan falling to 4 million 450 000 euros in 2012. The purpose of this proposal is primarily to accelerate this dynamic at the beach Vaca, because the road is dangerous, increasingly burdensome, because it connects part of Zasavje when the busy road is unloaded for people who drive daily to work against Ljubljana. Let me also say that there is a geometric center of Slovenia on this road. This is an object that is being visited by more and more Slovenians, and from year to year the use of this road is also increasing in this direction. We want this approach to be more dynamic and, by doing so, accelerate this solution, eliminate the consequences and the security problem. As for the new Upper Log facility, the railroad crossing, let me also say that this has been a long time planned. The matter does not move, but on these lands this route is already written, reserved. Until this is resolved, even those who manage this land that has farms in this place can no longer plan as necessary, so the matter should be speeded up so that this matter can be resolved. However, if I look at the fact that these projects are not at all negligible in terms of the possibility of obtaining work for construction companies in the immediate environment, and also more broadly, and thus also of maintaining jobs in the area. We keep saying that the country has to invest. These are projects that can be implemented immediately. There is not much red tape involved in this, and this would also help to create employment at this microlevel. I would also say that construction and related activities in our environment provide bread to a large number of families, so I think we can help our environment. Therefore, I would also ask all present and also those who are not here to support these amendments, if possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Kress. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The area of transport or road infrastructure is one of those where funds are significantly reduced in investment matters by €25 million or €17 million in infrastructure. Interestingly, €4 million increases in administrative and management resources. This is one of the areas that can contribute to the faster and even development of this country, to the development of remote areas, to the polycentric development of Slovenia. This is a reduction, which, if not partly popular with the proposed amendments, will make poorer places even more poor, the centre will be richer and this difference between Ljubljana and other places will increase. And it speaks again of the Government's intention to decentralise this country's equal development not being serious. Each item in this rebalancing indicates that this intention is deliberately falling down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u180	Thank you very much. We are moving to the next user, this is 2511, Ministry of Environment and Space. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u181	This is the area of promoting efficient use and renewable energy sources. For an area for which we have heard a lot of pianist views, words in recent months by various government representatives, by the Prime Minister. However, when something needs to be done to strengthen this area, to encourage faster measures, we are witnessing that funds from 27 million are halving to 13 million euros. We have all received the initiative of many organisations in the area of sustainable development, where they call on us to support this amendment. Two amendments have been tabled. The problem arose because, for some on the Finance Committee, the source was not correct. However, the adoption of this amendment would allow for at least partial mitigation of what is being taken in this area. To avoid jeopardising any consumer if this amendment is adopted or I say, if all amendments were accepted, all amendments amount to EUR 127 million, 851,000, and the fictitious items in this budget on the expenditure side are EUR 250 million. I told you where these fictitious items come from. EUR 50 million, return on investments in the telecommunications network, the Government refers to the Court of Auditors’ opinion or to the Court of Auditors’ request. This amount is not justified in any law. I said the Court of Auditors didn't order that. These are the recommendations of the 2007 revision. Nowhere in these recommendations is this recorded and therefore this argument is not only wrong but inadequate, misleading. On the other hand, we have a law that specifies exactly from which source investments in the public telecommunications network are being returned. And this is the Court, not the state budget. It is said to be 50 million, not based on any legal basis. And second, job subsidies, 230 million. The estimates we have on the table say that this amount will be significantly lower. I think there is no problem with anyone being deprived of their resources even after it is proposed that these renewable resources be provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. There are almost identical explanations here, as I said before in the previous case. The point is that we want to increase the funding of the Ministry of Environment and Space by €604.299. Otherwise, we propose a reduction of €604.299 at the Ministry of Defence. Here I must stress that we are following an amendment that we do not know if it will be adopted - 1111, where we are already saving 25 million euros and yet I imagine that the Ministry of Defence would not even have to lose that money. If this is accepted, we are not investing anywhere else here and this matter could also be closed down. Above all, this is the problem of drainage and treatment of waste water Lithium-Smart and waste water in Zagorje. I have to say that the case in the first project is happening, these are Trbovlje and Hrastnik, and I have a feeling that it runs well with European funds as well, and if we approach it, I think we have a good chance of getting EU funds here and financing and closing this matter. As I have already said, there is already a space reserved here, things are standing here and there also appears to be that part of the damage that I am talking about that is simply not manageable in this area at this time. If this matter were to continue, we would speed it up again in the direction of both new or large works of construction and job provision, and I would estimate that the adoption of this amendment could be a good solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u184	Mr. Rozjej, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I would like to discuss the amendment already mentioned by my colleague, Montenegro, concerning the promotion of efficient use and renewable resources. If there is, we are also very sensitive to environmental protection and environmental issues in the client of Real-New Policy, so we have looked with interest at these two amendments. As for the latter, which has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we find it good and acceptable. You will probably agree that the source itself, you say, is both fictitious, probably not so important, but for this second proposal to increase by 3 million 700 one of the other amendments, which may also be adopted, reduces this item by another 700,000 euros. However, at least three million euros on this item would also like to see more, given that the financial situation, which is now 27 million, has been reduced to 13 million. If these things are going to get any better, it's going to be good. We'll probably support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Erjavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u187	Nice greeting on my part, too! Given that the item has been repeatedly highlighted today: promoting efficient use and renewable energy sources to reduce from 27 million to 13 million 500. Let me first explain that it is a European resource, that 3 million and a half were provided in 2008 and that it is essentially an increase of 10 million euros in the 2009 budget balance. However, I must say that there is a problem on this item that there are not enough projects to be prepared. And on the basis of this assessment, we have decided to give a real number according to the projects that have been prepared. However, this is the case with the European Union funds drawn from 2008 to 2016, which does not mean that the reduction of these funds by EUR 13 million means that they are lost, but only means that they will be transferred to the next year when, I hope, the projects are also ready. In particular, these projects are related to the energy efficiency of buildings of public interest. For these renovations, appropriate documentation should be drawn up in order to draw on these European funds at all. Given that we started these projects only last year, it is understandable that the main projects will be prepared in the following year and later.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u189	Just what has been said now is the argument that this amendment is not only accepted, but that it will increase by another 10 million. You are reducing the funds under item 1206 from EUR 27 million 059 000 005 to EUR 13 million 467 thousand 735. For $13 million, 591 270. That's the facts, and it's in the papers. You are reducing funds for the renewable energy and environmental protection centre, halving already small funds, which have been signed contracts and programmes and are an obligation. You're reducing the funds for the centre, which is supposed to be the backbone of the preparation of the programs for the next time. With regard to programming money, it is not true that all European funds are also budget funds. All European funds are also budgeted. It's an area where it's the fastest way to get to the project preparation or to the point where you decide to do the project, when you can do it. This is an area that has to do with the least problems. In addition, on the basis of the decision of the Ministry of Environment and Space, a new regulation will enter into force in the middle of the year, setting stricter criteria in this area. All of this suggests that these measures and those funds must be supported. I don't understand that the Minister is against it. I don't understand that. The funds provided do not reduce the programme in any way. I have explained this very clearly before, and I will say this, if there is a need, a hundred more times, and if there is to be, this rebalancing will go to a constitutional conflict, because it is based on 50 million on an item that is fictitious and does not have a legal basis. And she can't be like that in the budget. It can't be! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u191	I am very sorry that the Member does not want to understand the explanation. I told you the projects weren't ready. And yet, if we put this 13 million in the budget, it will only be at the end of the year that they were not used because the projects are not ready. As for the centre in Pivka, I think the employees have enough resources to be able to implement all the programs. The funds are planned according to the programmes to be implemented this year. And we do not want to plan funds for programmes that are not yet ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u192	Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u193	Mr. Secretary, what you think is completely irrelevant here. The Government has adopted a decision in which it has written [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u194	Mr. Blackach [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u195	to be for a renewable source centre [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u196	Mr. Blackach!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u197	and environmental protection [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u198	Someone warned me before to keep an eye out. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u199	to provide 440 000 euros for the renewables centre. [[...]] That's the government's decision. That's the first thing. And you don't guarantee it here in the balance room. That's another thing. If any of the Members were to talk about projects not being prepared, it would be still to be understood. You're the minister in charge of this area. You have been entrusted with the task of doing everything you can to ensure that projects in this area are prepared. And you are obliged, in accordance with what you have sworn, to ensure that this will also be done. However, we are obliged to help you in such a way as to provide you with the basis for this work, we are saying that we are helping you to provide you with the necessary resources. That's the part. And let me understand that for once! I understand what you're saying, but you don't understand me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u200	Mr. Rogers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. I understand the Minister's words that the projects are not ready, but of course this is not the reason that this item could not be increased in the budget. Then the Ministry will prepare the projects. Although I believe that you may have been used at the previous ministry to preparing projects by others, this is not the case with the Ministry. I hope that you will still be able to find the projects for the money that will be allocated to you here in the budget for renewable resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u203	Thank you for your word. I owe you an explanation. It is probably not the Ministry of Environment and Space that will prepare projects, for example for local communities that will have in their programme, such as the rehabilitation of kindergartens, health homes, in order to make them more energy efficient. You probably don't expect the Minister of the Environment to prepare this documentation. And I said that this started in 2008. Apparently, the former government has done little in this area. I hope that this government will be more successful and that local communities will draw up appropriate programmes so that their facilities they manage can also be renovated so as to be energy-efficient.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u204	Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u205	I think you're working here for unnecessary concern, Mr. Secretary-General. Your job is just to publish the invitation. However, in order to publish a call for candidates for these funds, you need an item in the budget. And you are now fighting to help you secure an item in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u206	Mr. Rogers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u207	Most of what I was going to say was said by my colleague Blackach. But I don't think it's enough in your place to just hope that this government will succeed. You're part of this government, so you can help yourself to this success. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u208	Thank you very much. We are moving to the next user, this is 2523, the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. No one wants to discuss it. We are moving to user 2611, Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The first one has the word, Mr. Kres. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. In the case of user 2611 in the Slovenian People's Party, we propose an increase of EUR 500 000. Above all, here we see the problem or solution and respect for the issues that have recently been revealed since Slovenia, these are grave sites. In doing so, we want to increase these resources to be approached in a way that affects every cultural environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u211	Thank you very much again. I will discuss the sub-programme "Social Protection of the Intangibles". This is an amendment allowing the payment of the so-called Draganj allowance. Today, it has been heard several times by some that the amendment would still be somehow okay, but the items with which these funds are provided should not be okay. I think the items are okay, because they are being evenly drawn from individual budget users, and none of them will be at risk if this amendment is adopted. I must say that I was personally surprised by the Government's position towards this amendment, which says, inter alia: "Looking at the acute macroeconomic and public financial situation in Slovenia and the world and the fact that inflationary movements and forecasts do not jeopardise the real income of pensioners, the government did not propose a single pension supplement law this year." This position surprises me because it is very difficult to say that the current situation does not endanger 250,000 people who have pensions below EUR 400, 450 and 500. On the other hand, I am surprised by this view on the fact that the Government has not shown a minimum willingness to actually plan expenditure. It provides for a fictitious EUR 50 million for the return of investments in telecommunications, providing for a fictitious EUR 200 million for subsidisation of part-time work. Even from these items, if those envisaged would not be appropriate, it is possible to provide these funds. I think certain obligations must be respected. If the government gives them to them, even more so if the President gives them to the government, twice as much. And in this amendment, you will actually show how valuable your words are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u212	Mr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u213	Thank you very much. I'd like to discuss this subroutine myself. The matter is directly related to the already introduced law in the National Assembly, which we tabled last week. I'm first-signed under this law, so I think it's so much more important. The law stated that this one-off pension allowance would be paid in 2010. With this we have realized what you have done, signed and not kept a word in the normative part of the Government's work programme. That's why we wanted to help you with that. And with this amendment, we're actually interfering with what? We are concerned that you could in some way make a correctional examination and that the law on a single pension supplement would be amended and that pensioners, as the government majority will decide, would receive this supplement already this year. Let me remind you once again that this amendment and the adoption of this amendment are only a realization of what you promised. The Minister here, Mr. Erjavec, is among us. We talked about this a lot in the pre-election period, and when he said a thousand or three hundred or what I know how many euros, I was silent. So I'd like you to support this now. And I am very pleased with the support of DeSUS, which was announced this morning. It would be good if we supported this amendment. But I'm concerned that the government doesn't support him, so we could have our pensioners back up again. That's not good. It would be good if, as I said earlier, the pensioners, by adopting this amendment, get this money, get this money, and spend more than we say. More consumption, as you know, will help to boost the economy. That's probably what we all want, and that's why it's right for this amendment to get support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u214	Mr. Rogers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u215	I am very glad that the Government does not support this amendment. Not by himself. For I imagine intergenerational solidarity completely different from what it is set here. Intergenerational solidarity doesn't mean we're going to bail Dars for one, two generations behind us coming. Intergenerational solidarity is not that we leave the border resolution to Croatia. I do not know which generation will come and will be able to deal with and more. I am a Member with a Member's salary, reduced by one Member's class, without a previous working age, in short, the worst-paid Member between 500th and 600th place per salary in the state administration. Together with our partner, who is on maternity leave, we are the parents of two children, our total income is about €3,000, and 1000 we pay for mortgages, for a four-member home in Ljubljana and for life insurance, because I cannot say to my children, "Pay for the highways where your grandfather and I drive" and I will not give them anything to do with it. If you divide 2000 euros into four, the number of members of our family, I will not count the puppy with which we have it, it is 500 euros. This is the 500 euros you spoke of as vulnerable pensioners. Who's at risk here? What generation is the one that is at risk? The generation that's just coming is at risk, and it's not even there yet. And we have to worry about that. Intergenerational solidarity should care for the weakest generation. And in this case, this is not the oldest. But in generations, the thing is, if there's no money left for one, the weakest one that isn't, then there won't be any next. And in these times of crisis, intergenerational solidarity is needed. But to whom? To young people without jobs, to children, to unborn children, actually. I believe that it is not easy for anyone to live with 500 euros of pension, but I believe that these people live in an apartment of ownership, possibly even in a large, large one, so that they are not able to wipe the dust in it, and that is why no one is taking any swaps with any young family but a 4-member family who lives in a wardrobe or something like that. You understand what I'm talking about. I am not sure that in the current situation financially, because this was also one of the promises in the coalition contract, if the financial situation permits, the financial situation of this, I say, does not allow and I cannot be, but as much as I liked it and I do not care how many voters I should like. Here's the thing of responsibility for, as it were, the generation that really needs this intergenerational solidarity.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u216	Madam Secretary of State of Kamnarev.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u217	Thank you so much for saying that. The Government of this amendment does not support the amendment for the following reason. A very intensive analysis of the situation of individual social groups is currently being carried out at the Ministry of Labour in view of their social situation. This analysis will serve to prepare a law that will resolve the equal treatment of the elderly with regard to their social situation. A special law is already included in the Government's normative work programme to resolve this issue. The law was supposed to be ready in the middle of the year. And when the law accurately specifies a lasting solution to this problem, not just a one-off issue, adequate funds will be provided.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to come by, but that kind of debate is staring at me and it's a lot. You should know that you showed the data to one of the family members. Your family, however, has 3,000 euros, as you said. Many pensioners, I can give you numbers, 200,000 people have less than 400 euros, and there are also pensions below 400 euros. My dad's been working on the road for 40 years. But we're talking about pensioners who have less than 500 euros. Not to say that all pensioners had, that's how it was understood, 500 euros. And it is necessary to know that these pensioners also have some other child at some college in Ljubljana, and that even for these, I know many, it is necessary to pay. There's no comparison here, and it's not right for us to act that way. Of course, Mrs Kamnareva, I find it difficult to believe, because the day after the introduction of our law, Mr Erjavec said that it was a demagogy and that the Government would still make sure that at least one part was paid this year. And you told the media that there are no funds this year. I find it hard to believe you, unless something has changed in these three days, then I'll believe it. As far as pensioners are concerned, well, please, not like that. I was living alone in a family where my father retired a long time ago, and I don't know which one of those kids I was in college with today's 400 euros, and we were four kids. Don't talk like that. And there's a lot of people like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u220	Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u221	Thank you for your word. I think that those who listen to the debate on this amendment have somehow figured out what a new policy in this area will bring about modernisation in this area. However, I would just like to say that we have tabled this amendment only because the Government, within the time limit set by it in the coalition agreement, has not submitted any law or made sure that the provisions of the coalition agreement are implemented in the manner set out there. I think that the government and the government coalition is the one who must first take care of the realization of what it has written in the coalition agreement and what has also been announced. I don't think we should be so easy to take the acts that they are and that the Government has and that it operates on. For there is no normative programme of what is written there in the coalition agreement. Such excuses as we are now witnessing to them, I do not think they belong to the National Assembly and do not speak of the credibility of those who have committed themselves to doing anything. But when it comes to doing so, a month after it was signed or two, they don't. If we go to a policy, if we put something into words, even a written word, if not written down orally, then it is a duty, then it is the obligation of the person who has accepted it to introduce such a matter, specifically the Government, into the normative programme and this provision realizes it. The items from which we take this are items that mean nothing special. They do not mean obligations under the implementation of the budget or domestic debt, because it is unlikely that this will be achieved, because the items you have in the budget, and I have already spoken in the debate, are some blind, they will not be exhausted. There will be €150 million left on the job subsidy line. We're only talking about 63 here. This item in the manner set out in the law will not be implemented. These funds must be treated as a budgetary surplus on this item. I don't think it's any problem if one third of what's supposed to be, not from this item, but from the global, for that purpose. However, what you have done there for your obligations or for those material costs from which we take it mean relatively small items and are, in fact, irrelevant to budgetary users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u222	Mr. Minister Krizanic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u223	Thank you very much. A respected choir! The government of this amendment does not support it. In view of the commitment under the Coalition Treaty, it will be implemented, if possible, in 2010, when, hopefully, the main part of the crisis or crisis is completely behind us and will be significantly easier to implement publicly. The measure does not merely have a social nature, because it does not only concern those who are socially at risk, it has the nature of intergenerational solidarity and in some ways reduces the difference between pensions and salaries, and it was created as an original also, I must say, on the initiative of the Prime Minister's Strategic Council in its previous composition, during a period of rapid inflation and a reduction in the standard of living of those people who had relatively fixed incomes, these are pensioners. In this way, we reacted and prevented the standard of living from falling too much due to the rapid rise in food prices. In the current situation, this is repeated in a way that improves the standard of living, but it is not so acute that it would not be possible to postpone it next year. If the coalition partners accept this, then I think it is possible to do this in 2010. If they do not accept it, it will follow very quickly the balance that it will take into account and as a coalition proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u225	I express my joy over these words. The law has been tabled for 2010 and I consider these words to be confirmation of our law by the Minister. However, I would like to say that the coalition agreement contains something else, the first part of this supplement in January this year and the second part in the second half of the year. It's not in the Government's normative programme for this year. However, it is difficult to listen to this reasoning, very difficult, as we have seen today that all public users are getting more money for wages, all except four. At the same time, we hear that it is not possible to provide funds for those with the lowest remuneration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u226	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u227	Dear High Council! That's true, there's an increase in funds. It is true that wages have increased, but it is true that pensions have also increased by 8% in two coordinations, so that the situation is relatively uniform in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u228	Mr. Rogers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u229	Thank you for your word. I believe that it's unusual for a lot of people to hear the argument that I made before, but that doesn't bother me. I just believe that's because so far you haven't had enough ears open for the needs of different generations. But if we are now sitting in this congregation as other people have ever been, there is nothing wrong with it, for that is probably why people sent us here to remind us of problems that no one has ever warned about. And if the intention of the coalition agreement is already to give to those with low fixed incomes a dradnian supplement, let us not forget that those with low fixed income are elsewhere, not just among pensioners. The recipients of maternity benefits are also certain. Some people don't. Same as with the pensioners. And there's also some sort of population that's entitled to it. I think it's demagotic here just to show off as a generation's problem. In this light we are then all other generations somehow guilty of this, and of course this is not so. But I insist on this in my case, in my calculations. I also think that not only low revenues, of course, we should also look at the assets of the people who are supposed to be recipients of this. I believe that there are many pensioners, and perhaps your father, who you mentioned, I don't know the situation, he lives in his own apartment, the owner's house with the garden and so on. These are all things worth looking at. And if we are already in this debate with the Minister of Finance, I believe that the property tax should be imposed as soon as possible. This would be one of the permanent sources of the budget; it could contribute to the reallocation of some assets for another crisis later on. But, of course, I would help the most vulnerable, who are just creating a family, to one more enduring present and future. You probably don't expect generations, especially women of childbearing age, to be educated, not have a job to give birth to three or four children, who will make sure that the demographic picture of this nation is different. He won't, he won't. And more and more rightly, those who say: The pensioners will be more and more, this will be an ever-increasing problem. And I'm cynically adding, well, the child is going to be less and less, so it's going to be a smaller and smaller problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u230	Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u231	Thank you very much. We have previously said that we have tabled an amendment and a law because a provision under the coalition agreement is not being implemented. A colleague said that you had foreseen the first payment in January 2009. It's been two months, there's no funds, there's no bill, and there's no law to be drawn up by the government. We have proposed this amendment to implement this provision under the coalition treaty. The other thing is, I'd like to warn you. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] January 2009 is already over. [[...]] Please warn him, Mr. Vice President, because he's in the way. The other thing is that you wrote it in a coalition agreement, November of the month, but you planned it for January. And that just shows how you've gone about planning, implementing, I don't know, rebalancing, as we're saying now, because it's built on wrong assumptions, that you've also made a normative programme on wrong assumptions and that even a coalition agreement is based on wrong assumptions. It is likely that all these normative bases, including the coalition agreement, need to be rebalanced in order to prepare the bases so that you can implement what you wrote in there. I doubt that a serious coalition is so wrong in two months that it's missing, I don't know, for three months. You wrote in November that the first payment will be in January, now we're in March, and it's not. This is said to be a relative error and an absolute error is already very great. The other thing that really bothers me is the consistency of the government coalition's conduct. You are now saying that pensioners, those with the lowest pensions, cannot be paid these allowances of 300 and 200 euros. At the same time, you're talking about raising judges' salaries. At the same time, the Government takes decisions with which officials in government offices raise salaries for five payment classes in ministries. I don't think that's consistent. That such conduct is unacceptable. On the one hand, we're talking about the endangered category of people, and we're all in agreement, and we're not giving them up. On the other hand, we give those who already have five more grades. And Mr. Minister, even 1,000 euros is your minimum wage statement. And this will have to be put into this system for once. As soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Dr. Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Of course I speak as a Member. I must say that we have heard many times today that the economic situation in the country is difficult and will obviously be even more difficult and that we must be more restrictive in the budget, that we must stick to it. I must also say that for the first time I have heard that I would be the leader of the largest opposition group, I will call him Mr Tanko, the guardian of the coalition contract of this coalition and this government. That's not usual. I think that the guardians of the coalition agreement are others who will also be responsible and explain both to other partners and voters why something has happened and why it has not. Also in the previous term, some of my colleagues, when we were in the opposition, spoke and warned that the previous government had not fulfilled the coalition treaty either. I always said, 'cause that's, yeah, okay. The less those contracts are fulfilled, the better for Slovenia. And that was more or less. Don't worry about the coalition deal. We will defend it and defend it in good and bad way from our constituents and voters. However, it is certainly true that certain proposals and promises have been made. I am sure that in this time and arrangement, we will be able to resolve matters as necessary. In doing so, we must also look at all other vulnerable groups in the country. I think that we must, above all, judge the welfare of this country and this nation by how good it is for those who are at the worst in society. If we use this vat, we will not be able to misdefined ourselves in difficult situations. All other cases, an increase of five classes, the salaries of judges, are uprooted cases that you cannot claim to be either trend, legality, contract or anything. You generalize, you always generalize from one phenomenon to the other. But that's what we're used to, that's not a problem, that's a good thing you're doing. It's a good thing people hear it, like they hear my voice. However, I certainly believe that the things associated with this amendment are too difficult to play in such a cheap way. As for the coalition treaty and its custody of implementation, I have already said so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u234	Mr. Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u235	My colleague Gantar took a lot of text from me about the coalition contract. I haven't seen the SDS myself among the co-signers of this. Perhaps Mr. Tanko is such a visionary that he knows in advance what will happen. Since he's talking about our coalition contract, let me also mention his sentence, where he said that this amendment was tabled only for that reason, I've already forgotten something, but surely something good. I think they've invested it mainly for tactical reasons, to put a little DeSUS in a crossroads, and to see how he's going to react. We will not support this amendment. Because if we supported all the SDS proposals, we would really bring this country to bankruptcy. And here's where so many millions have been raised that there's another budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u236	Madam Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members! I feel it is my duty to defend the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to the important perceptions heard today from the opposition members' panel on the incompetence of this government, the inability to plan and perceive wages and other areas, as we did not know for 2009, so what lies ahead. Look, the budget balance that was prepared was prepared at the starting point that your government prepared in 2007. In 2007, there were no assumptions for a new wage agreement concluded by the previous union government in the summer of 2008. That's when the next thing happened to you. Mr Tanko, I have listened to you carefully, and I think this is a big problem, and you will find that the impression you're referring to us is not justified. You are then before the elections, President Janša has admitted that some things have escaped from practice in terms of negotiating with individual groups of civil servants. The assessment of the wage reform concluded or the necessary payments by 2010 of the former predecessor, Mr Virant's Minister of Public Administration, was merely an estimate that the project would cost EUR 450 million. This report was waiting for me at the table. When I asked what the real consequences would be, we found that we could not answer that question. Therefore, immediately, precisely because we wanted to get information on what is ahead of us for the next two years, we have prepared the necessary methodologies to capture the data in a way that we can accept this assessment, however. A month ago, the users returned to us in most of this table, and we did the analysis. In 2008 alone, the former government's assessment of the necessary funds was insufficient by 10 million. Not just that. As the reform has taken place in the summer months, we have found uncontrolled reorganisations that have cost €53 million to be undertaken in the review of the possible reorganisations of budgetary users. This is all the information that the government is familiar with right now because you haven't left us this information. In December, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development announced that, according to the estimated effects of the new pay system, salaries would increase by 9.9 percentage points in 2009. The forecast for the economy was 3% at the time. In the economic and social world, in the wake of the upcoming signs of the crisis, it has been undeniably demanded that such growth is unacceptable. Therefore, we have simply been forced to stop the pay system, which has not yet come to life, at this point because of the financial crisis and other crises. However, today, as the current government, we are very concerned that the following information that we will make in the same methodology for the next six months will not show us again the additional shortcomings of this single payroll system, which we today see in the arrangements of the former government and in the promises of many groups, that a mistake has been made in their inclusion in the pay grade and that this will be eliminated, we all know that it costs additional resources: to nurses, to the J Group, there is a lot of this. To date, we have collected almost all data from users, from budget users, from public sector unions, so what are the mistakes that have arisen in terms of poor wage class classifications. Such a fat folder has warned you what all mistakes are. And the expectations of these groups in the pre-election campaign were promised that these mistakes would be resolved. Eliminating the wrong classification means expecting these people from our government that their salaries will be better today when they are properly classified. That's what I'm talking about because you're attacking us so we don't know what reasonable estimates are. I am informing you that we are not able to accept these assessments because neither have you which have completed the project. Today, when we get actual data, and so it's not just estimates, but data are frightening in terms of the amount of new public finances. Judges. Two decisions of the Constitutional Court because of your decisions, you say that they were completely wrong and that we are obliged to assign judges to pay classes in such a way that their pay grade is suitable for other officials of the other two branches of government, legislative and enforceable. We are correcting your mistake and the decision of the Constitutional Court by July. Since we have committed ourselves to respect the rule of law, we must respect that. You know the decision of the judges at our first talks, where we told them that it was a financial crisis and that we have a major problem solving this issue, that they had waited four years for solutions when negotiations with your government failed. And now they no longer expect the current government to negotiate and negotiate, but to enforce the Constitutional Court's decision. The situation is not simple. Of course, I am aware that such large systems as the single pay system were certainly expected to be shortcomings. That these shortcomings are such a dimension, however, the current government is causing us great problems. We have committed ourselves to saving them, but I am only warning that we will not be criticised for having so little to do with our grades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u239	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I welcome everyone in this hall who insists on a late hour. However, I would like to draw attention to this issue on two sides. An amendment has been tabled by the opposition party. Then there's the law on the non-repetitional supplement. This means that we are reminded of something that we have not done or agreed on. Socially endangered categories require solutions from us. Both the young population, the unemployed, and the elderly. In my office, there are citizens, citizens, citizens, citizens who remind me of this. We promised this, we have this obligation to them, as well as to that army of unemployed people who will go to employment institutions tomorrow. That is why this solidarity must be intergenerational. And I certainly do not agree that we are comparing ourselves in this way and in another way. Look, we have a few pensioners who have a pension of 150 euros. Disability pensions EUR 250. Are these people entitled to a decent life? So. Like all those on the edge of this society. Therefore, this matter needs to be carefully considered. It's not a bad suggestion. It's done, it's done by the opposition party because we kind of fell asleep.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u240	Mr. Tank, if I understand correctly, the replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u241	Outstanding progress for five payment classes has nothing to do with the previous government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u242	Yes or no? A replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u243	It's a replica. However, as regards the balance of the proposal, Mr Kek is balanced, otherwise they would have rejected it already in the process.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u244	I find that no one wants to discuss this user anymore, so we continue with user 3311, Ministry of Education and Sport. There's no debate. User 3511, Ministry of Culture. There's no debate. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on the amendments. The vote on the amendments and the specific part of the draft budget rebalancing proposal will be held tomorrow, 26 March 2009, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration of the development programme plan. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The vote on the development programme plan will be held tomorrow, 26 March 2009, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We are moving on to a full debate on the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The vote on the proposal for a budget rebalancing will take place in full accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow, Thursday, 26 March 2009, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the fourth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night!
