ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are about to proceed with the fourth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, mag. Anton Rop, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Ljubo Germič from 12 noon onwards, Mr Milan Gumzar and Mr Alan Bukovnik. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 10. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Demersal and Invalidity Insurance of Former Military Insurrections, Short-term Procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Mirano Ptræ. I give the floor to the representative of the law's proponents to Mr Miran Potræ for further explanation of the bill. Please, Mr. Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u2	Mr President, Minister of State, colleague and colleague, good morning! The Law on the Pension and Disability Insurance of Military Insurers, adopted in 1998, regulated in its Article 3 the rights of military insurers and their widows. Among other things, he granted widows the right to a family pension, just as the then applicable general law on pension and disability insurance. This law on pension and disability benefits was replaced in 1999 by a new law which entered into force on 1.1.2000. The new law on pension and disability insurance transformed the right to a family pension into a widow's pension for widows or widowers after the deceased and into a special new right that the pension scheme in Slovenia did not know before. This is a partial widow's pension that goes to widows or widowers as a supplement to their own pension of at least 15%. Since the Law on the Rights of Military Insuranceers was adopted before the general regulation and has not been amended or amended to date, it has not been possible to introduce two new rights. Until 2005, this is until the amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, despite this terminological difference on the basis of judicial decisions, widows after military insurers also recognised the right to a partial widow's pension. However, due to the severe censorship of such cases, there were few cases. However, since the interpretation of the law showed a lack of clarity, amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2005 provided that the right to a partial widow's pension could only be exercised on the basis of a right under the general law. What the Institute for Retirement and Disability Insurance has interpreted in such a way that it no longer recognises this right to widows by military insurers. This interpretation and practice was found only in 2007 by the National Council's home labour body and considered unacceptable because it does not guarantee equality before the law and introduces a distinction that the previous rules did not know in spite of the same actual state of the beneficiaries. Therefore, Members and Members of the five groups of Members have already proposed, twice in the previous term, that this non-systemic distinction be established solely because of the status of the insured as a military person in the former common country and ensure the same status of all insured persons before the law. As both the proposal did not receive the necessary majority, the representatives of the coalition groups and the Slovenian People's Party tabled it again. The proposal is based on a request for equality before the law. Any non-payment of all contributions to the Slovenian Pension Fund is not justified because this fact did not change only in 2005 and because the new Pension and Disability Insurance Act was approved in 2000 and introduced certain new rights that are not linked to contributions and adopted the principle that the payment of certain rights not directly linked to paid contributions is provided by the budget. The necessary resources for this proposal will also be covered by the budget. In view of the small number of potential beneficiaries, cca is estimated. 50 and an average widow's pension in December 2008, amounting to €59.86, is expected to total a maximum of €36 000 per year on the basis of this law. And this year, much less. The proposal will therefore not seriously burden the budget. But it has a symbolic meaning for equality before the law. In particular, as a moral satisfaction to beneficiaries, Slovenian citizens who have paid the same contributions for their working age and pensions as all others, and are considered to be discriminated against because of statements made by opponents of the law that they cannot obtain these rights. This law is supported by the Government, the State Council, the home labour body and the Legal and Legal Service. I expect we'll accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Family, Labour, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. I give the floor to Vice-President Ljub Germić to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good bye to all of you! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is held at the third meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons on the day 18. 3. 2009, as a parent working body, he considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance rights of former military insurers, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Mirano Ptræ, with a proposal for the consideration and adoption of a bill following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 16th session, on the 27th. 2. In 2009, it decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified procedure. The Committee therefore examined the draft law on the basis of Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons and the opinion of the Government. The representative of the proponents, Member Miran Potrč, gave the members a more detailed presentation of the purpose of the law and the proposed legal solutions in the introductory explanation. He stressed that the aim of the law was to eliminate the discriminatory distinction between widows and widowers according to the type of insurance, their deceased partner, for whom there was no reasonable explanation. The adoption of the law will also improve the material situation of the above-mentioned category, particularly widows. The bill follows in particular the principles of fairness and equal treatment. According to the Government's view that the rights of widows to former military insurers should be regulated in the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance Rights of Former Military Insurers, they propose such amendments and supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers, which will clearly stipulate that widows after former military insurers also have the right to widow's pension and to doses of widow's pension. In its opening presentation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the nominal technical shortcomings of the proposal. The representative of the Government pointed out in his opinion that the distinction between beneficiaries under the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Obligations or Beneficiaries under PPIZU 1 alone is not justified in the work of widow's pension. In this case, it is undoubtedly possible to defend the position that it is right and fair to recognise the rights of the rightholders under the Former Military Insurers Act, since the legal and legal aspects give rise to the same legal rights, irrespective of the legal title from which the right is then recognised, which is identical in its legal nature and content. For this reason, the Government supports the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers, which will also not significantly increase funds from the State budget. In the discussion on the articles of the law submitted, the main focus was on Article 1 of the draft law, where some members felt that it was a matter of extending the circle of beneficiaries who did not pay into the Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and that it was a group of privileged insurers. The Coalition Members opposed these claims and stressed that it was not a privilege but an equalisation of the rights imposed by the General Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2000. The Government also supports the proposed amendment and has specifically pointed out that it is not possible to contest the fact that such entitlements under the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Insurers, as well as beneficiaries of entitlements under the general pension and disability insurance scheme, have paid contributions from their incomes, even though they have been paid to various cash registers, in order to enable them to exercise rights later on the occurrence of the insurance case. In the context of the debate on Article 1, the Committee drafted and adopted an amendment to Article 1 of the Act. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In view of the adoption of the amendment, the text of the amended bill, which is currently under consideration, is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, State Secretary, Ministry of Family Work and Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It's a nice greeting from everyone on my side, too. As has already been said, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rights from the Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers. This eliminates the unequal situation of widows or widowers who are recipients of their own pension while at the same time fulfilling the conditions for a widow's pension under special rules after the deceased spouse. It cannot be disputed that both the beneficiaries of rights on the basis of so-called military insurance and the beneficiaries of entitlements under the general pension and disability insurance scheme have paid contributions from their incomes in order to later enforce the relevant rights at the time of the occurrence of the insurance case. The only difference that makes certain insurers unable to exercise the right to work on a widow's pension today is that the contributions have been paid to various pension funds. The right to the work of a widow's pension will now be exercised after a change of law only by those insured for whom such a choice will be financially more favourable than the application of a widow's pension. This means that the number of insured, beneficiaries will be small and the budgetary resources spent will be appropriately low.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Members of the Slovenian People's Party have already signed a bill in support of this bill. We support the law because of the purpose of the law amending the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers in such a way that widows or widowers, after the death of former military insured, will be allowed to choose to establish a widow's pension or to enjoy their own old age or invalidity and part of a widow's pension. We would like to point out that this is not about the granting of privileges or the privileged category of pensioners, but only about the equalisation of the rights introduced by the General Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2000. It is not fair that widows or widowers, under the current legal regime, are in an unequal situation with other beneficiaries of widow's pensions. They are now entitled only to the possibility of receiving a widow's pension of 17% of the basis for the family pension. However, they cannot choose to withdraw rights from their pension and invalidity insurance and at the same time receive 15% of the amount of widow's pension per military insured. Under the law, the state budget will not be overburdened. According to recent estimates, a widow who could enforce, or widowers, the right to work on a widow's pension is only 50, which means an estimated financial burden of approximately EUR 36,000 per year. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposal for a law because we believe there is a need to remedy unfairly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President, once again. Say good-bye again! The Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy has contributed signatures to support the proposed amendment to the Law on Supplements and Amendments to the Law on Rights from the Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers. It had already done so during the past mandate, when we tried to amend the Pension and Disability Insurance Act by means of a substantive amendment, and then by amending the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers. Unfortunately, there was no support in the previous mandate by the Government and the ruling then coalition to equalize and create the same position of insurers before the law. We will therefore support the content of the proposed law. Here we support all the guidelines and reasons for the implementation of the content of this law, as presented in the introduction to the first-signed amendments and additions to this law. So it's one simple fact. By asserting certain rights that we have written both in the General Law on Pension and Disability Insurance and a special law that has upgraded the legal system as a result of changes in the former country and at the beginning of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, within the framework of the general rights of both laws, equality is created before the law. If we divided the family pension with amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act into a widow's pension belonging to a widower or widow after a deceased spouse and then a family pension belonging to other relatives. Of course, these consequences have not been clearly defined in the framework of the Law on Rights from the Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers. According to the interpretation, following the amendment of the law in 2005, these insurers could not exercise the right to apply their pension, which could then be added to 15% of the widow's pension as a supplement to their pension. We certainly cannot accept the fact that only the legal basis where the contributions were paid is the basis for denying certain rights to certain citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, we believe that the adoption of this law requires a change and that this law will create the same position for insured persons before the law and thus eliminate the injustice established by interpreting the law adopted in 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The law before us is not the first time, but the third time. It has also been specifically explained what legal misdemeanours there are in relation to this law. Therefore, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, whose member of Miran Potrč is first signed under the law, what we think about this in the Group of Members. It is a matter of resolving the basic issue of equality and justice. If any pensioner has the right to choose a more favourable solution for himself, a group of nationals may not be entitled to this option under the applicable legislation since 2005 in the part where a pensioner who has been employed may exercise the right to 15% of the widow's pension if that is more favourable to him. In particular, I stress that this is a small group of people who have sought their right before the Constitutional Court. The fundamental question is whether the legislator, when implementing this new provision in 2005, cannot exercise the right to work on a widow's pension by means of a policy, knowingly or unintentionally. But it's not that important. Now that we know of this injustice, it is on the legislative branch of power to remove the injustice. In particular, because pensioners had the same rights under the Pensions and Disability Insurance Act as all other pensioners. And in view of the fundamental purpose, continuity had to be ensured. The question is why we don't want to admit it to these people. In this case - as stated by the Government - it is undoubtedly possible to defend the position that it is right and fair choice to recognise also the beneficiaries of rights under the Law on the Pension and Disability Insurance of Military Insurers. However, the legal status gives rise to the same legal entitlement regardless of the legal title from which the right is then recognised, which is identical in its legal nature and content. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that in the past it was a lack of political will to remedy a discriminatory decision. For if, too, other pensioners have been recognised as entitled to cover their rights from the budget, not from the pension fund, so that they are specific solutions, why not - once again I stress - these rights, which will burden the budget and not in such a high amount that it would not bear this budget. You have already heard that this is about €40 000 a year, which is also what the Government believes is the amount the budget can cover. So why don't we just admit it and sort it out. Therefore, I quote from the opinion of the Government: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the proposed amendment of the regulation, as it cannot be disputed that the beneficiaries of the rights under the Law on the Pension and Disability Insurance of Military Insurers, as well as the beneficiaries of rights under the general pension and disability insurance scheme, have paid contributions from their incomes in order to be able to exercise rights later on the occurrence of the insurance case." It is therefore impossible to agree to the position, where you have paid your contributions, is the only criterion by which the right can be measured. In this case, we therefore hope that it will be finally voted in the third draft of the law and that this will eliminate the injustice that widows by military insurers have been obliged to bear. Thank you. Mr. Stephen Tisell has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Štefan Tisel has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u14	Your Honor, Mr. President! Dear Madam Secretary, welcome to all present! A group of MPs with the first signed Mirano Ptrče submitted to the parliamentary procedure a law that would change the rights of former military insurers' pension and disability insurance in such a way as to enable widows or widowers, after the death of former military insurers, to have the right to choose between their own widow's pension and the enjoyment of their own pension with the right to work on a widow's pension. Such additions to the Law on Rights from the Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers were submitted by the SD to the parliamentary procedure as early as 2008. Such changes had already been rejected. The introduction of the law on the extension of the rights of military insurers shows that the government coalition wants to favour some groups. That law would extend rights to persons who have been retired under a different law and who already have social rights under another law. Such an extension of the rights of this group is unacceptable to the insurers. Especially in times of financial crisis, when it is necessary to allocate public funds rationally, when many families and individuals have lost their jobs because of the economic crisis and are in a difficult situation. There are even more reasons to refuse. First of all, the functioning of the coalition, which, by rejecting the SDS amendment to the 2009 proposal for a rebalancing, showed our responsibility to pensioners with the lowest pensions, showed that, on an ideological basis, it wants privileges only for a particular group of pensioners. The various financial effects cited by the proposers are further shown. Decisions have already been issued to the so-called deleted. And the court has already awarded the first compensation. A petition from former Yugoslav Army officers has been filed, indicating whether or not we can pass the fact that the events may be connected. We cannot help but overlook the fact that the demands of people who, at the time of the independence of Slovenia, opposed to independence and also actively opposed Slovenia in threatened conflicts, knowingly speculated and did not accept Slovenian citizenship are completely inappropriate and unfounded. Although it is not a major asset, it is a huge psychological effect at this time. However, the fact that the government of Janez Janša had a hearing for the pensioners was one of the first measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the 2004-2008 mandate was just a change to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which has brought important and long-term benefits to pensioners, namely that pensions are coordinated twice a year and for as much as the salaries increase. In January 2008, the Act on the Protection Supplement was also adopted, which re-regulations the right to a pension allowance. The total increase was then 9%. However, before the end of the term of office, the Law on a single pension allowance for pensioners who receive less than EUR 500 per month was also adopted. And now it's in the procedure again of the Single Pension Allowance Act. And here you can show your obedience to all pensioners, not just a group. The current coalition has promised to raise pensions and the Dragan Supplement to pensioners with the lowest pensions. However, the first payment of the supplement to be received in accordance with the Coalition Treaty is already in January 2009 moving further into the future. The only exception at the time of admission will be the military insurers privileged by this law. We will therefore oppose the adoption of a bill in the SDS Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rights from the Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers, which regulates part of the widow's pension, will, of course, be supported in the Group of Members. Why? We are convinced that in this case it is an equalisation of rights, not the privilege of certain pensioners. On a symbolic level, it strengthens confidence in the rule of law and in the social state. However, there is a reason why we are dealing with this law at all, a lack of previously adopted legislation. My colleague, Potts, has already mentioned that it is not so important whether this deficiency was intentional or unintended. However, what is worth condemning is the opposition to such a law, which is the third time in the parliamentary procedure, because this opposition is deliberate and in our conviction - it was also heard by the proponent of the Government, the Legislative and Legal Service, the State Council, the Ombudsman, the Constitutional Court - the reasons why such a law is necessary. Thus, we believe that opposition to such a law is in fact based on very low-level reasons, for which it is to be feared that at this meeting of the National Assembly they have not yet reached their bottom, although they have long since come under the borders not only of good taste but of one general moral and ethical standard. At the time of its independence, this country has undertaken to maintain the level of social rights for all its citizens, irrespective of where the various insurers have paid their contributions. And of course, of course, they deserve the same rights. We cannot say that the interpretation of the institution, which, for example, has so far refused to pay this part of the widow's pension, is, in fact, understandable. But of course it's up to us to do it as soon as possible. And in fact, it's scandalous that this has never happened before. All rumors about other groups of pensioners who are to be negatively discriminated against in this case are pure demagogies. It should also be known that this topic has absolutely nothing to do with the issue of deleted. And that in this case, of course, opposition or support for the independence of Slovenia has nothing to do with the topic of this law. In fact, among the military insurance companies that widows would now like this 15% supplement to their pension, you will find such veterans of World War II. After all, many of them became officers of the Yugoslav People's Army. After all, many of them served. At least I know about such cases, on the western border, on the border of free market territory, etc. In short, these were the people we have to thank deeply for the fact that Slovenia is today as much and as much as it is. In this case, it is also theoretically the widows of military officers who switched to the Territorial Defence side on their own. And also their widows - as I hear - you intend to deny this right to a partial widow's pension. In short, I sincerely wish that the vote, this National Assembly, would agree, and that we will all be able to support this law, whose content should be indisputable. However, there is no doubt about the votes cast by the Group of Ambassadors. We will all contribute our vote to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u18	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group is co-signatory to this proposal of the law, and there is no doubt that it will contribute all its votes in support of this law, which will eliminate discriminatory situations with regard to widows or widowers of former military insurers who are in a cash register the same as others who have paid their contributions to pensions, as well as widows who have generally paid all their contributions to their pensions in the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. to the pension fund from which they have their pensions. Now we are only dealing with the issue of equality before the law, which should ensure that these widows too will have the right to a maximum of 15% of the widow's pension after the deceased spouse, of course, from their height or, if this was higher than the average in that country. There is no doubt that we will not talk about any privileged situation of these widows because they belong to the elderly widows, as a rule, to the poorest part of the population, where poverty reaches 40% according to our official data. That's why it's right to do it. But we have heard that the amount of this widow's pension is extremely small. The problem is somewhere else. To support this solution also because, to a small extent, it will fix the material situation on the one hand. On the other hand, we point out that this part of the pension and disability insurance rights, which would be frozen by the law adopted by the former authorities in opposition to our parliamentary group, will continue to be frozen and this part of the 15% widow's pension will continue to be frozen. And so that law was the most prevented from correcting the very parliamentary group that today boasts about the kind of obedience it has for the pensioners. As a result, of course, it is high time that we put an end to the discriminatory situation. Let's arrange it for these widows, too. I must stress that such a solution would be supported by me regardless of their number and regardless of the financial consequences. For when it comes to being equal before the law, it is impossible to recognize the right not only to the one whom you like, but to all who are covered by the law. In short, we'll back it up. And we are pleased that we have finally resolved the issue that has been open for so long and which puts the widow in an even more difficult position after the military insurers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič noble has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u20	Have a nice hello to you all. In these pathetic speeches, which we have heard from at least the last two debaters, there is so much illogicality that it seems a little funny to a man. It must be said that not all widows paid their contributions in Slovenia, because military personnel moved after the former Yugoslavia. And these widows in recent years have paid their contributions in Slovenia. That's probably two or three years. Not anymore, for after four years, there was a transfer in the military ranks. It is also a funny statement that 40% of poverty is in these kinds, but when we have heard from Mr Portec that these ladies are in fact no more than 50. Even with this number, we find it funny that the same law that was introduced in the previous term is now said to be about 50, "the requirement for a widow's pension tax will not be more than 50". That was a quote. However, in the previous term, all widow's pensions should be after ex-military insurers 1.613. This is said to have decreased in one year from 1.613 to less than 50. It also said last year that we would need some EUR 564 000 per year to implement this law. Today it was said that we would need about 36,000 euros a year. In short, very strange and, I'd say, unconstant. I understand that you have to keep your promises. And after all, why not? However, at least be precise, accurate and serious. And I don't know why in these times when the recession is in the country and when we need other laws to solve the economic situation, it is necessary to adopt this law for 50 people, in short. Maybe it would make more sense if the biggest coalition party in their pocket gave money to these ladies. I think the country would be very happy. We could hang a big medal around our neck for this. And instead of saving on coffee, we'd give a little more money, and that would be saved. If we multiply 50 of these people by about 60 euros - I don't think that's going to take much so that your cashiers don't even know much. However, there is certainly much to be done in the area of pension matters. On the other hand, you may not, even because of any of your former or current members, settle, say, the problems Mr Chad has. General Chad was the one who was willing to hand over the whole Istria to Slovenian soldiers, Slovenian territorial defence. Back then, Bavčar did not have the courage to go further than the Croatian border. And, say, General Chad, when he was ready to surrender to the Slovenian Army, Kučan asked that he stay on the river so that no one else would come and there would be no problems. And now you don't want to settle General Chad's case. You don't want to hear about it either. Is this because you're protecting Mr. Kučan or why? I think it's more important than that. This man has done much more for the independence of Slovenia than some single-owners who are boasting today and do not know what else they have done. But you don't care there. But you're going to go out here and do things in an unselective manner. And you don't even know what a man was, an ex-husband of a certain lady. What if some of those gentlemen who were directly from the tanks when they attacked Trzin went to work in the Slovenian Army? You don't know anything about it because you don't care because you want to pull things off the way you set it up, but no matter what it takes, and no matter what it costs, what it costs to do with the Republic of Slovenia's money, what it costs in some other spheres. In the end, however, this matter comes to light once and for all. Perhaps it would make sense that the Roses of various kinds would not be advertised with such nonsense as we have heard here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the adoption of authentic reasons 51.c. of the law on local self-government. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was tabled by Mr Franz Bogovic. I give the floor to Mr Franz Bogovic for further explanation of the proposal for the adoption of an authentic explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u22	Good-bye, Your Honor! The reasons for the application for acceptance of the authentic interpretation of Article 51.c are based on the circumstances that occurred in our local area when the municipality of Krško was divided into the municipality of Krško and the municipality of Kostanijevico. Although the necessary documentation has been prepared in accordance with the Local Self-Government Act for the agreement to be shared within six months by the municipal councils or in the next three months which the mayors may perform, this agreement has not been reached. And now we are in a situation where there are still differences between the municipalities regarding the need for additional funds to be created by the newly formed Preval Congregation with the budget of the Municipality of Krško, so that we expect that it will be very difficult or possible to accept this treaty division. Given that the law in Article 51c provides for the possibility for one of the municipalities to decide to adopt a unilateral act, we wanted to obtain an authentic interpretation in the National Assembly before making such a decision. Because, after asking different questions, we weren't sure how we had to do it in the Local Self-Government Service, both at the Ministry of Finance. That's why we wanted to get this explanation in an authentic explanation. It is a simple question whether Article 51.c is sufficient to allow one of the so-tangular municipalities to adopt a unilateral act, which is then the basis for the entry into the land register of the basis for the adoption of an act in the institutions of public institutions. Finally, the basis for obtaining agreement at the Ministry of Finance in the event of long-term indebtedness. As I said before, we wanted clear explanations about this. However, these answers were sometimes contradictory or unclear, so we wanted to do so in an authentic explanation. Already on the Committee on Local Self-Government and also in the materials received by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government, as well as by the Legislative and Legal Service, the view is that this 51.c article is sufficiently clear and in some ways also confirms what we wanted in this authentic explanation, which I myself have written to be in the form of this interpretation. This means that this 51.c Article now allows for the publication of an act, in so far as one of the municipalities adopts a unilateral act, of an act which is to be normally sent to other municipalities. At that time also provide for this judicial protection, which is exercised in this case by the Administrative Court. Furthermore, unless this document is challenged, this is a suitable document for both the entry into the Land Book and the exercise of the institution's rights, as well as the provisions of the Law on the Financing of the Communities which regulates these matters, which is sufficient and appropriate for obtaining a long-term debt agreement. For this reason, I also assess that, as decided by the Committee on Local Self-Government, there is no specific explicit need for this interpretation to be adopted. For in this process we have now received a sufficiently clear position coordinated, even on the government side confirmed, which provides us with a sufficient basis for further decision. However, I think that, in spite of all this, the purpose has been achieved. Both for us and for any of the other congregations that, in the event of the separation of a part of the congregation into a new congregation, have made it more difficult to arrange for others to do the same. So, once again, I feel that both the service and the services for local self-government, as well as the legal and legislative services, are sufficient grounds for me to agree that there is no need for an authentic explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was considered by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Villa Trofenik, President, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u24	Nice greeting and thank you for your word. The Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development is at its second session 13. 3. Consider the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of 51c. Article of the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a fellow Member, Mr Franz Bogovich. Before the meeting, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the opinion of the mayors of the Municipality of Ljubljana, the Municipality of Trbovlje and the Municipality of Maribor. The Committee took note of the intention of the proposer to regulate the property legal relations arising from the division of municipalities. The applicants come from the case of Krko Municipality, from which part is excluded in 2006 to the new municipality of Kostanjevica ob Krka. However, within the statutory deadline, there was no agreement on the sharing of property between the municipalities. On the basis of an authentic explanation, the applicant wanted to enable the municipal council to adopt a unilateral document which would allow the entry of the property of the Municipality of Krško into the land book and thus resolve the issues of building permits, establishment and long-term debt. The Ministry of Finance explained to the Municipality of Krško that without the documents on the contractual sharing of property, it is not possible to indebt any of those municipalities. When the Committee examined whether an authentic interpretation of the law was necessary, it was based on a very good opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, in which it explained in detail that the proposed authentic interpretation was not necessary and in some cases even exceeded the meaning and purpose of the authentic interpretation. In this regard, it stressed that the content of the authentic interpretation is that the legislator adopts it when the standard is so vague that it gives rise to different interpretations and has to be explained meaningfully. Where the meaning of the provision is clear, as in the case of Article 51c of the Law on Local Self-Government, no authentic explanation is necessary. 51.c. Article of the Law on Local Self-Government does not apply to the borrowing of municipalities. Therefore, debt cannot be a direct reason for an authentic interpretation, as the applicant stated in his proposal. Debt is regulated by other laws. However, the terms of the new congregation’s indebtedness are clearly set out in the Law on the Financing of the Communities. The division of property in accordance with Article 51c of the Law must be made irrespective of the possibility of borrowing the congregation. Even if there is no debt to the congregation. Complementing the legal provision for authentic interpretation is not admissible, as the Constitutional Court has also pointed out in its recent decision, which annulled the authentic interpretation because it did not interpret the legal norm but supplemented it. The Legislative and Legal Service also drew attention to a number of other indications of proposals for authentic interpretation that do not stem from Article 51 C of the Law itself. The Minister, without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development, explained to the Committee that, given that he had not received an opinion from the Government before the meeting, the Government's Office for Legislation and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly agreed on the content of the respondents' response. In addition, the Committee took note of the fact that the Ministry of Finance of the Government of Local Self-Government and Regional Development has ensured that it interprets Article 51.C in the way that the submission of an agreement or unilateral act is sufficient for the implementation of the procedures for the borrowing and approval of municipalities by the Ministry. In the debate, it was pointed out that Article 51C of the Law on Local Self-Government should be taken into account in the negotiation procedures and that the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service in this respect would be welcome for a number of municipalities which have not yet been able to fully resolve the issue of the sharing of property between municipalities. On the basis of the opinion of the proposer that the Legislative and Legal Service and the representative of the Local Self-Government and Regional Policy Service have duly clarified the content of Article 51 C of the law and the possibilities it permits, the Committee has assessed that further consideration of the proposal for an authentic interpretation is no longer necessary. On this basis, the Committee adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 51 C of the Law on Local Self-Government should not be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Renata Brunskole has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u26	Well welcomed, Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposer, fellow Member Franci Bogovic, considers that Article 51.C, however, lays down the criteria for the sharing of property by law. This provision, however, is evasive and unclear in the description of the method of action itself in the event of such legal division. In particular in terms of the enforcement of the division and the acts to be adopted in order to demonstrate such division transparently and to demonstrate to the authorities outside. The applicant proposes to clarify paragraphs 3rd, 4th and 6th paragraphs 51C by authentic explanation. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has commented that article 51.C of the Law on Local Self-Government in all paragraphs and is fully clear and comprehensible. In such a way that implementation does not require any refinement and does not propose an authentic interpretation as proposed by a fellow Member. However, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has found that that proposal formally has all the elements to be contained under the second paragraph of Article 149 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The applicant considers that an authentic explanation is necessary because the Ministry responsible for finance does not grant loans to the municipality in the property-sharing process and does not allow debt until an appropriate asset-sharing agreement has been adopted. It is noted that Article 51c of the Law on Local Self-Government, which the authentic interpretation is proposed, does not refer to the indebtedness of the municipality, but rather to the sharing of property. Therefore, it considers that this reason, as stated by the applicant for an authentic explanation, cannot be an appropriate direct reason for accepting an authentic explanation. The division of property in Article 51c of the Law is not determined by purpose of borrowing, but by regulating property issues between newly formed municipalities. Property-legal relations must be regulated irrespective of the possibility of indebtedness. So even if there's no debt. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is also that an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 51c of the Law on Local Self-Government is not necessary and that in some cases it would even exceed the meaning and purpose of the authentic interpretation. Since, on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, a fellow Member, Mr Bogovič, had already received an authentic explanation, had already received an explanation or confirmation, he himself felt that acceptance of an authentic explanation was not necessary. The Group of Social Democrats supports the conclusion of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development that the adoption of an authentic interpretation is not necessary. Therefore, we will not support the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of article 51.c of the Law on Local Self-Government in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. The regulation of property-law relations resulting from divisions or the establishment of municipalities is undoubtedly an important issue, which is a major problem since the introduction of local self-government, despite many changes in legislation in this area. In fact, these issues should be resolved at least in principle, by an elaboratory of the proposer justifying the reasons for the establishment of a new congregation. In this way, citizens would be aware of the consequences of setting up a new municipality before the referendum in which they make a proposal and decide at the referendum would have their weight, and would have avoided many misleading forecasts of property and legal matters, which are too often in the function of justifying the proposal and unrealistic expectations, and would have caused unnecessary problems and damage. In our parliamentary group, we will not support the proposal put forward for an authentic interpretation of Article 51c of the Law, but we will support the proposal of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which follows an extremely high-quality opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Moreover, a mandatory interpretation of this Article would not solve, as has been said, the problem motivated by the submission of this compulsory interpretation, namely the indebtedness of the municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u30	Dear Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow Members! In the DeSUS Group, we support the decision adopted by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development to reject the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 51c of the Law on Local Self-Government. For we agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government that there is no need for an authentic explanation and that in some cases it has even exceeded the meaning and purpose of the authentic interpretation. The essence of the authentic interpretation is that the legislator adopts it when the standard is so unclear that it gives rise to different interpretations and has to be explained meaningfully. Where the meaning of the provision is clear, as in the case of Article 51c of the Law on Local Self-Government, no authentic explanation is necessary. At the same time, given the substance of Article 51.c itself, the authentic interpretation is unnecessary, since this article does not refer to the indebtedness of municipalities. Therefore, debt cannot be a direct reason for an authentic explanation, as the applicant states. The division of property in accordance with Article 51c shall be made irrespective of the possibility of the municipality being indebted even in the event that the assignment of the municipality does not take place at all. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation provides that the act on the division procedure is a finding act adopted unilaterally by the municipality. However, this is clear from the law itself. The approval of such an interpretation is also based on the decision of the Constitutional Court number U-1-4/99, which explains that the division of assets in this case is the division of "ex lege", this is the division by law. In this case, the municipality shall adopt a unilateral act of a determining nature. In the DeSUS Group, we propose to all municipalities in a similar situation, such as the Municipality of Krško and Kostanjevica in Krka, which were also the basis for the proposed authentic interpretation, to take into account the proposal of the Minister for Local Self-Government and the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy and to use a mediator or an interpreter for such unresolved issues between municipalities. This will make it easier for the municipalities to take decisions or to understand the options offered to them in reaching an agreement or to resolve any difficulty in adopting such acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u32	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, Mr President. Proposal for an authentic interpretation of 51c. The articles of the Law on Local Self-Government were welcomed. We must admit, he was welcome for one very reason to draw attention to the shortcomings that are occurring in - and here is now the essence - of the voluntary decisions of the National Assembly and even of the violation of their own laws that are taking place when the National Assembly forms new and new congregations, even though it violates the provisions of a law that is very clear. The law makes it clear that if the municipality has 5,000 people and certain conditions, or 2500 people under special conditions, it can become a municipality. You know very well that this has happened in the previous government, in the previous government, that the formation of the congregations was actually preparation for the national elections and local elections. And, yes, that is why we also supported the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation in the Slovenian National Party and as mayor himself. Of course, in the Slovenian National Party we will respect the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which is very clear. Of course, in the Slovenian National Party they also made a decision as the mother labour body did. Once again, we point out that it is right that we have begun to think about the need for corrections. For you know, a new congregation arises and then we have a problem like this. He's probably not the only one. In the event that the municipality - I will say the case, Ankaran in the previous term - met the legal conditions and this National Assembly did not accept the establishment of the new congregation of Ankaran. However, we have established a number of new municipalities, which have, of course, been eloquently in breach of the law under conditions. I hope that this problem will be solved by colleagues in both municipalities in an amicable manner or in an "ex-lege" way. At the same time, I ask and warn this National Assembly to think carefully when the time comes for the re-establishment of new and new congregations at the 110s that we already have. At the same time, I would very much like to draw attention to the coalition and the Government, which is drafting legislation to review legislation on the establishment of urban municipalities, where there are certain definitions that have been unreasonable for many years. It means that the city can be formed if it has 20,000 and more inhabitants and 15,000 employees. We know that this information has been illusory for many years, but such legislation still exists and there will be a similar problem with the requirements of authentic explanations. Why look for authentic explanations if we know that there are problems and problems and that there is a need to amend and rewind legislation on the establishment of municipalities, the establishment of urban communities? In the Slovenian National Party, we respect the very well-founded opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which is also based on the opinion of the home labour body. That is why we will act legally and also respect the opinion of the parent working body. However, I hope that, despite the fact that we will reject the proposal to accept an authentic explanation, that this has impressed on our memory and our request that we address such and similar issues properly in this year and at the latest in the coming year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u34	Hello again! In the SLS Group, we understand the need for an authentic explanation, which arose mainly in the issue of relations arising after the division of municipalities. We know that the new congregation can in fact live on its own as a legal entity only when it has previously regulated its relationship with the former congregation. The newly formed congregation is, inter alia, obliged to assume all obligations and responsibilities for the management of assets and financial resources. To arrange all organisational and human resources in such a way that they can gradually begin to carry out all their tasks independently, adopt all necessary general acts for the functioning of the budget of the municipality, and agree on a final balance of assets. The law provides for two options, namely the contractual distribution of assets and the distribution of assets ex-lege, i.e. under the law itself. For example, the proposal mentioned the problem of the Municipality of Krško and Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka, which still failed to distribute the property and regulate the property legal relationship. While the municipal council of Krka Municipality has already adopted an agreement on the distribution of property, the municipal council of the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka has adopted a decision not to accept the agreement. There's no common language. Therefore, the municipal council of the Municipality of Krško wants to adopt a unilateral act, which will consider the property to be distributed by law itself. This is in accordance with Article 51c of the Law on Local Self-Government. After the adoption of this Act and other activities, the distribution of assets for the Municipality of Krk is to be completed and completed. In the SLS Group, we understand that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation has been submitted because Article 51c of the Law on Local Self-Government of the Skip and is unclear when entering the method of action itself in the event of legal division. The problem is, in particular, in terms of the execution of the division and the acts to be adopted in order for such division to be transparently demonstrated and demonstrated to the authorities on the outside. The problems were also with the Ministry of Finance, which stood in the position that the municipality of Krško could not rent any credit or borrow until an agreement between the municipalities was reached. Since the municipality of Krško does not wish to have difficulties in regulating land-book issues in the management of real estate and the management of public institutions, this proposal has been tabled for an authentic explanation. Throughout the procedure, in particular on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, it was found that an authentic interpretation of Article 51c of the Law on Local Self-Government was not necessary. In particular, there are important explanations given by the Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government at the meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government. It stressed, for example, that the unilateral act referred to in Article 51c is the basis for the later entry of assets into the Land Book, and also that the Ministry of Finance has ensured that the interpretation of Article 51c by the Ministry of Finance of the submission of an agreement or unilateral act is sufficient for the implementation of the procedures for the borrowing and approval of municipalities by the Ministry of Finance. In view of the above, we also consider that the authentic interpretation of Article 51.c is no longer necessary in the SNS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will decide on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. TIME OF DAY - THIRD REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS LAW, IN THE context of a regular procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the representative of the Magi. Andrej Vizjak. I give my word to the proposaler of the Magi Act. To Andre Visiak for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u36	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! As we follow the economic forecast numbers as we follow the economic climate indicators in the Republic of Slovenia for the coming period, it is more than clear that those economic operators that are most involved in all of this have not in fact recognised the Government's actions as sufficient government measures as timely government measures, as measures that will capture and withdraw Slovenia from this unenviable situation. On the contrary, pessimism among economic operators in Slovenia is greater than in the Member States of the European Union. The indicators of the economic climate are worse, and all of this comes from a very simple fact: the government has not met the expectations and has not met them. That's why we wanted to help in the opposition. We proposed a partnership for development. We have proposed a series of measures, which have been more or less rejected by all in the current lane. Especially the ones we think we can "hold" first. And that is also the law that I have put into the parliamentary procedure. It's a law with which to give back to the economy sooner what's overpaid. That's what they say. They'd have returned the overpaid value added tax. And now. The government has listened to this proposal in part. The government reduced the refund of overpaid VAT from 60 to 21 days, but only next year. But it's a crisis today, it's happening today, and businesses are in bloody need of liquid assets. They need blood money today. Yesterday I visited one of the largest motorists in the Republic of Slovenia. There's over 400 trucks. It is said that you can think of how many people are engaged, employed within this company. The company has a surprise, despite all this business, a job. He has contracts and only faces one problem. This is the problem that those with whom he deals have withdrawn payment hands for 30 days or more. Which means that, suddenly, one gap appeared to this company, a lack of some of the liquid assets needed for normal business, payments for salaries, payments to suppliers. And since the company doesn't have that money, there's a paydiscipline going on. Workers get paid later. Suppliers later get money for their business. There are still many such cases in Slovenia. Thus, the company is virtually unable to rent bridging loans, short-term loans because they are too expensive. In fact, in this particular case, the insurance of a short-term loan and together with the interest rate, puts this interest rate at the annual level at over 10%, including up to 12%. Of course, it is almost no activity in Slovenia, which would have so high profits, that it can at the same time afford such an unfavourable loan. All the measures proposed by the Government are actually going in a different direction. They go to new development projects, which are also commendable, but very little has been done to increase the liquidity of the economy. And this law, which we wanted to return to the economy earlier, is itself one, of course, but an important stone in the mosaic of measures that the Slovenian economy needs during this crisis. The government has decided that the coalition will not be until next year. Instead, we have items in the budget or in the balance sheet that do not belong there at all. For example, EUR 50 million of overpayment or repayment of payments to the public telecommunications network, for which the State gave the Slovenian Compensation Society a share before the time. And with a view to paying the investor, or in other ways, from these shares and selling these shares, in accordance with the options of the Court. I don't know why that's 50 million. In short, I want to say it's money. It's money for that purpose. In fact, however, the government's priority to this measure is very low and, as a result, we are not witnessing support. So I hope, Members, that we have another chance and that we can take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please, Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you very much, President. Of course, the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the amendment that has been tabled. The amendment that has been tabled to the existing law is that the law enters into force and is also applicable the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal. So we want the liquidity of Slovenian companies to be improved as quickly as possible, which, of course, is an extremely important measure to mitigate the consequences of this crisis. I've been through this whole procedure of dealing with this law and I've said all the benefits. In doing so, the government has drawn attention to all the negative aspects of this law. And we can only elude one negative side, which is that this measure will suffer liquidity or that the liquidity of the state budget will be incurred and that this will result in a greater deficit at the end of the year. If the government's so high concern about budgetary liquidity were not to adopt the 2009 budget balance in the National Assembly, because we all know that it is based on pre-optimistic assumptions about economic growth resulting in inflows to the state treasury and is very ambitious. We say, even predatory when we're talking about the spending side. So the government here did not worry about liquidity when we know on the one hand that there will be more expenditure than the budget originally foreseen and at the same time significantly less revenue. Thus, there is no problem with the liquidity of the state budget. On the other hand, of course, there are items in - as I mentioned earlier - that are pre-sealed. One of the items in the budget, which is foreshadowed, is also the item related to full-time subsidisation. The data today show that this measure has served significantly fewer businesses than the Government has foreseen and that there will be a few resources left here. I also mentioned an item related to the return on investments in the public telecommunications network. And there's more to it than that. Therefore, I believe that there would certainly be a part of the means without seriously interfering with any right to financially implement this measure, which is supported by the whole economy, the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, the Chamber of Commerce. In fact, all the economic operators I ran into have no problems. On the contrary, it supports this measure. This measure is actually the voice of the economy. Let us listen to the economy, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! So, on the one hand, I think that the financial argument for rejecting this - as I would say - is overblown and also groundless. On the other hand, anyone implementing the budget knows that certain measures at the end of the year can also partially transfer payments to the following year and thereby contribute liquidity to the budget. Because this amendment is only about hurting - let's say - the liquidity budget and consequently causing the deficit only in the current year. Well, let me remind you again, we're returning his money to the economy. The one he overpaid. We don't give money to the economy from the budget, we just give it back. Therefore, I believe that if the Government recognized this proposal, it could also be introduced in the short term. I was also deeply disturbed by the fact that at some point the Government had taken a decision to bring this law into force and to apply it in the middle of this year. That's what they say when you're 30. 6. Then she changed her mind and postponed it for use until the end of this year, or just to catch next year. In short, I believe that today we can take a step in the right direction with the support of this proposed amendment and with this real recovery of this measure in due time, as the economy expects it. I hope that such measures would also improve the indices of the economic climate in Slovenia and not help hope to overcome and enable higher economic growth in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Lojze Posedel has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All in attendance, Your Honor. We will not really support this proposal in the Group of Members. Otherwise, as such, the proposal seems reasonable in the long run, and there may also be a question on the ground why it has not yet been implemented. I think that in the presentation that we heard from the proposer, there were a lot of inaccurate and incorrect statements about the proposal itself, which is certainly focused on this well-being of the economy, which is in serious trouble. And so it is more appropriate, once again, to ask: Why was such a measure not implemented in the previous term when conditions were significantly different? And that is not the point where we reject such a proposal just for liquidity problems? I'm sure these problems are the biggest. This is also the biggest reason why we will not really support this proposal in the Group. But two of them are more important or at least that important. This is a way of controlling the value added tax charged in the institution and the relevant information system in the tax administration, which I believe the applicant also knows that he is not in a position to accept at this point the task that would be imposed by such an amendment to the law. This would certainly mean not only liquidity failure, but also the possibility of a lot inappropriate in the account itself. And that, therefore, such proposals are incorrect in a time of severe economic crisis. It is true, as has been said, that this is only one pebble in the measures the Government could take to ease the situation. But we all know what one stone can do. It can trigger a reptile with catastrophic consequences. We are convinced that such a proposal is irresponsible, that it pleases the economy. But he's unrealistic. Like, if we compare it with family, everyone would probably go on a proposal this year for a vacation to the sea or buy a new car, but at a time when it is necessary to save, when it is necessary to look at each euro, such a proposal cannot be supported. Surprisingly or surprisingly, we can be surprised that such proposals are backed up by the budgetary rebalancing, as if we did not get a detailed picture of the large budget deficit in the revenue side, and that the responsibility of the State and the financial ministry in particular during this period of crisis ministers is precisely in providing stable finances, and that there is no item at this point in time of the immediate implementation of this law to replace this loss of some 100 million euros. That is why such an appeal and addressing the economy with this populist and like proposal is irresponsible, unfair. In particular, I will stress, also by the former Minister of Economy, who is likely to be concerned that this is a missed opportunity and that this change in the previous Government should be enforced in view of the positive effects it has on the economy in the previous term, rather than being repeated at this moment when we are all facing this extremely large crisis. Therefore, we will not really support this proposal in the Group of Members. We are aware of the crisis that is deepening. We are aware of the data that are evident in the monthly influx of VAT into the state treasury, which is logical in terms of both reduced production and, on the other hand, in terms of both increased social transfers and increased transfers as aid to the economy. Therefore, we consider this proposal to be a long-term correction also meaningful and will, I am sure, also be prepared by the Government. At this point in time, it is incorrect and, therefore, we will not really support it in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everyone. Let me just say in the introduction that the position is going to be very short. It will be briefer than clear because, as in the past, the Group of Members has decided to leave each individual conscience to vote in this way. As in the past, we will support the law. The law has good intentions. It also has an improved solution by, however, setting a 21-day deadline for the refund of overpaid VAT and it is estimated that some have a significant disadvantage when these good solutions are delayed over time, for many, even so that this will significantly worsen their chances of survival in terms of economic business survival. As far as the amendment is concerned, we are less united in the Group of Members. For the most part, the amendment will be rejected. However, some Members believe that this amendment is crucial and that without the amendment being adopted this year, the law is condemned to lethargy. No more or less flattering. And it shows that there is no real commitment to implementation. DesSUS has not changed his mind in the past. He has always left the right of Members to act on their conscience in relation to this law and the amendment. That will be the case in tomorrow's vote. I think we're voting on this tomorrow. The proposer or the Government changed its position by changing its argument as to why it rejects it and also changing the time frame and setting up the effect of this law. These are simple findings that cannot be disputed. In short, we note that at some point the Government has also been willing to consider and propose something other than what is being proposed on its part today. And some of us think that the government was right when it cut to 21 days and predicted implementation before the holidays. The economy has not changed its position. The economy has always demanded an early refund of overpaid VAT and this has been proposed already in the previous year, already in the previous mandate. However, the argument or reference to the fact that the previous government did not take this into account today makes no sense. If the former government has acted too ambitiously, too modestly here, it does not excuse us in anything. We should, especially because of the situation in which we are, function a little more decisively. It is, however, more decisive for the economy to adopt the law and the amendment. Well, if I do. As far as the amendment is concerned, part of the Group of Members will vote in favour of it, with a majority against it. However, we will support the marriage because of the shortening of the 21-day deadline and realize that it was a strong limp, a disabled person.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Say hello to my friends and friends again! Usually, when someone writes a novel, a book, or wants to say something, it's always a hard start. Even if he knows a lot of things you want to say. First of all, I would ask you to forget that Mr Andrej Vizjak, the former Minister of Economic Affairs and the biggest opposition party, is the proposer of this law and amendment. If you will all, colleagues and colleagues, you will be able to focus more on the content of this bill and not least on the amendment we are talking about today. It is already that those of you who have been on the labour force have been discussing this law as if we were on the market in Turkey that there is a need for some content and intensity of this law. You know, we started off with 60 days, and we came up with a seven-day proposal. Then there were proposals for 30 days. Then, somehow, we agreed, or we wanted to come for 14 days. Last but not least, we have accepted some compromise for 21 days for the refund of overpaid VAT. So this is where we found some common language. But, moving on, we have done nothing about it if it provides that the law will enter into force on 1.1.2010, if you want, or after 31.12.2009. We didn't do anything. We have finally begun to intervene in these discussions in tax legislation and to interfere with tax legislation in today's acute economic situation, I stress that there is no crisis yet, it is necessary. And this is the first step, the first suggestion to find a common language. And in the Slovenian National Party, we put on balance one proposal and the Government's concerns. Government considerations: control should not be possible immediately. The windfall of the budget, which I think we have identified on the parent's working body, cannot be because we are returning money to the owner, the state has money that is not its own. Third reason, budget deficit, about any word later, and fourth, inadequate information system. And then we were sadly compared to Estonia. Estonia, for me it's a beautiful country, small, smaller than Slovenia. It has a beautiful city of Tallinn and a lot of poverty around this Tallinn. It's very sad. But they were able to do it in seven days. Let's leave the others, we're in Slovenia. We said 21 days. Budget deficit. Recently, when we talked a lot about the budget rebalancing, we found out; at least in the Slovenian National Party and we also supported it; it is necessary. But we've all come to realize that this balance that we've accepted is just a preparation for a real budget adjustment that is yet to come. I understand that from day to day when the situation is changing, the government cannot perform miracles and must rebalance the budget in a way that is visible and clear. And I certainly support her in that. But since we know that there will be a rebalancing, of course, it would be no big deal, colleagues and colleagues, if we accept this amendment. Look, calculate it, because we have experts who are supposed to be the cost of this country. Although, once again, I'm saying it's not state money. It's the money of those people who come back to them. It's company money. And let's see, of course, we'll find it in the next balance if we accept this amendment, definitely these funds. We'll find them. But we're going to start an economy. Look, if the banks were friendly today and were to lend on favourable terms, they would be given immediately so that companies in liquidity problems would be in debt, but I do not agree that they should be in debt because they do not get their own money back in time. But, well, even if we accept it. There's no such condition. In the past, banks themselves have committed themselves abroad because they have given large loans to individuals for speculating and buying securities that have been a guarantee for these loans. Today these securities are worthless and cannot repay these loans to banks. And now the bank can't give favourable credit to the people who need it. A small liquidity problem can bury or lift someone. There's a lot of people who can. If we adopt this amendment to bring the law into force immediately after its publication in the Official Journal, many of us can resolve this decision. I really can. Here he goes, not like we heard a little earlier from one of the speakers. It's not about liking. You know, that's the end of likeness. It is a necessity to obtain liquid assets. Imagine yourself, putting yourself in the skin that you're entrepreneurs yourself. Here you have a liquidity problem at the rate of those overpaid VAT assets that you do not get immediately. What would you have done? Yes, of course you will support such an amendment that is on the table today. Each individual will support him - if he is honest with himself and if he is honest with others. With all due respect, once again, and also taking into account the state treasury. Loans are questionable today. They're actually impossible, and they're too expensive. The meaning of this law - once again, I stress - if we have come so far as to come from 60 or 30 to 21 days, this law will make sense and live only with the adoption of the amendment that is before us today. Once again, this is not a political decision, according to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party. It's my own judgment that it's a smart decision. This is a reasonable decision, for this will bring this law to life. While, of course, all those who will support this amendment - and we will - are also aware of all the support for the next state budget rebalancing that will come soon. And you all know that. We all know. And I am sure that the funding from the subsidies, as it has been heard, from investments in telecommunications, and from what title, will have to be channelled into good for the development of the economy. Once again, let's forget politics, let's be reasonable. The law will only make sense by adopting this amendment, or by adopting it, to provide that the law will enter into force as soon as the day following its publication in the Official Journal. As has already been said, in the Slovenian National Party, we support this amendment because we hope that we have come so far as to save a company, its liquidity, by means of this law. Just in the part that actually belongs to them when the value added tax is refunded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Perseverance is a beautiful beauty - they say - and it seems to be worth it sometimes, because the exact same content was already rejected two months ago. This time it shows that we will adopt the proposed law. Nevertheless, the Government still cannot be convinced of the usefulness of the immediate application of this law. We cannot understand why, in our opinion, this is a simple solution, by which funds owned by Slovenian companies are sought in accordance with technical capabilities to return to these companies as soon as possible. According to our assessment, it is an effective and very simple measure, since we do not burden the country with it either, because it is not a means to be owned by it. In the context of the debate, Dr. Franc Križanic said [[Quote]] : "It means 150 million outages in 2009, about 0.4% of gross domestic product." The main apple of the dispute is once again the fiscal aspect of the problem management, an argument that this would constitute a risk of an excessive increase in the deficit in 2009, which would jeopardise the fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria. On the other hand, despite the countless questions raised, even in the context of the adoption of the budget rebalancing, we still have no answer to the question why the Government envisages EUR 230 million for a short-term measure, when it is now crystal clear that not a quarter of this reserved money will be spent for this purpose. My fellow Member, Mr Bogovic, and some Members have repeatedly asked representatives of the Government about this subject and we have not received an answer. I don't know why it's such a secret. Math is very simple in this case. We have not agreed recently on the argument of resolving the liquidity of the budget, and we cannot agree today. Solving the liquidity problems of the budget at the expense of the liquidity of taxpayers is simply unacceptable in these times. And as we can see, the anticipated money outflow is also available for settlement on the second unused item. Instead of inventing what measures I do not know, we propose to adopt the proposed amendment and the law below, thus resolving this problem for the benefit of the debtors and not the country, which we consider to be the most important right now. Finally, once again; it is unacceptable and, above all, irresponsible that this simple measure does not want or does not want to help the Slovenian economy immediately, although, as we all find, in the budget, the resources under the heading from which the measure will cover subsidisation of shorter working hours are and will certainly not be spent. It's simply called stubbornness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Listening to some of the politically oriented opinions in the previous debate, a kind joke arose in my head, saying, "My son doesn't know what 500 kilos is, he just takes it, carries it and runs it." With this ease, we are talking about the number of 130 to 160 million euros. It's like it's something that's lying there on some bench and you need to move just for one click forward or for one click back. All of you have spoken about the 2009 budget balance, what are the financial problems, how difficult it is to provide liquidity for the budget. Then we are listening to a few meetings in a row of such a demagogue and a politically defined debate. I would like to hear which of the debaters, ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber, tell us where in the balance of the budget we can miss these, say 130, 140 million. We have not heard these specifics. I hope we do it in the future. It should also be said that, of course, 10 times more than this, the country is committed, in times of tight economic conditions, to mitigating social and economic measures, and, of course, if the assessment is such that the effects in other areas will be greater than in this part of the economy, then this is certainly what we think in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. These discussions are also going in this direction, as if on July 15th, when Parliament goes on vacation, the economic crisis and recession will also end in Slovenia. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that at the beginning of 2009 we will have more problems in Slovenia than we have at this time and that these millions, and this solution, which is actually good if we subtract that political nagging note, will certainly be one of the best, unfortunately, former ministers. Of course, it no longer answers the question of why this has not been done in the past four years, when money was available, significantly more than it is today. To conclude slowly, in the Liberal Democracy Club we support and positively reduce the period from 60 days to 21 days, which we think is a reasonable and realistic deadline for the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to do its work in a qualitative manner. Then it is extremely important that this moment of public finances does not allow us to introduce a solution with 1. 1. 2010 Therefore, we will not support this amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democrats of Slovenia in the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. However, we are counting on a time when this solution, which is in fact good - and unfortunately for this moment due to the public financial consequences - is still inappropriate - to be fully supported. And I am sure that even at the beginning of January, there will be times when these liquidity assets will still be needed and appropriate for the Slovenian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Ms Renata Brunskole has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u50	Nicely greeted, once again. Perhaps my colleague, Mr Sayovic, made a mistake when he said "the proposal of the Social Democrats". He probably meant the Slovenian Democrats. Reduction of payment deadlines. We have talked several times about the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act, but let me repeat it. The reduction of payment deadlines makes sense. However, not at the expense of reducing tax control, as this would result in less detection of tax wheel fraud. The proposed measure would also result in a significant loss of resources for the state budget, which means that the government would run out of resources to provide some important measures to reduce the impact of the financial crisis. For this reason, we agree that the proposed law is rejected. However, the government should consider reducing payment deadlines in a way that will not result in a reduction in tax control and will not result in a greater loss of resources for the state budget. A reduction in the repayment period from 60 to 30 to 7 days would also mean a significant liquidity shortfall in public financial revenues. In particular, in the month following the change, funds should be made available for VAT refunds a month earlier. The proposed changes would reduce VAT revenue by around €150 to € 160 million on the basis of 2008 data, which means that the proposed measure should cut funds somewhere. While the Government has already implemented the amendments to the Law on the Tax Procedure, it has ensured an ongoing reduction in the burden on legal persons, so that the tax rate applicable in 2009 and not the tax rate of the previous year, such as the applicable regulation, can be taken into account when determining the amount of the tax on legal persons' income for 2009. In this way, the amount of tax advances paid will be closer to the amount of tax to be paid in 2010 on the basis of tax accounts. The proposed measure will relieve the economy of liquidity. On the basis of the corporate income tax, the economy will be burdened by liquidity by around EUR 50 million per year. Due to the need to rationally spend money and resources targeted for measures to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis and because the law would exacerbate control of taxpayers, amendments to the Value Added Tax Act are not suitable for further consideration. It should also be recalled that Banka Slovenije's last warning is that Slovenia's debt will be more difficult already due to an overrun of 3% of the deficit. On 19 January 2009, the international credit rating company Coface reduced its credit rating due to the consequences of the financial and economic crisis in Slovenia. But we know what a reduction in the credit rating means. Therefore, the country and the economy will be more difficult and more expensive to borrow abroad, which will act as a hindrance to the promotion of economic growth. Therefore, caution should be exercised as the proposed law would increase the deficit even further, as this could reduce Slovenia's credit rating again. According to recent OMAR forecasts, economic growth is expected to be minus 4% of gross social product. In fact, Slovenia will have to violate the Maastricht criterion of 3% of the country's general sector deficit according to the ESA-95 methodology. The President of the Government also announced major structural reforms to increase the competitiveness of the economy. In any event, an additional package of anti-crisis measures will be needed to ensure that the maximum number of employees is maintained and that the economy is restructured. Let me say that in the last few months there has been a debate on this in the entire National Assembly. We will not be able to maintain a deficit of more than 3% for a long time. As a result, the government has announced a budget rebalancing which will result in a fall in revenue to seek a margin of discretion on the revenue and expenditure side. For this reason, the Group of Social Democrats does not support the proposal by the Slovenian Democratic Party amendment to prevent the third package of anti-crisis measures. The International Monetary Fund also points out that fiscal measures must be targeted and sustainable. By adopting this amendment, however, the sustainability of fiscal measures would be called into question. For this reason, the Group of Social Democrats supports the proposal for amendments to the VAT Act in this form, with a view to reducing the VAT refund deadline to 21 days, but with a date of 1 January 2010. The shortening of deadlines will be easier when the new Dursa information system is actually in place, which will speed up control and shorten the deadlines. The new information system could possibly be established in the previous mandate. It was also intended to be carried out by the previous Director of Dursa, Mrs Geržina, in 2005, but the then Minister, Mr Bajuk, made some personnel changes. So, the leadership was on Mr Simic's side and, by the end of the term, the Durs information system invitation to tender somehow did not lead to the end. Therefore, the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members reduces the VAT refund period to 21 days, but from 1 January 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. First, there was a mag. Andrej Vizjak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u52	Thank you very much. In particular, in order not to repeat some of the observations already made in the context of the presentations of the groups of Members. So, a key observation of why the Government or the previous term of office had not already proposed this. A rhetorical question may be asked: Why is this not in the previous term and in the previous term? It is said that the LDS Members and Members of the former LDS parties, or some new ones, are really talking about why this is just now, why this has not happened before. I ask them: Why was it not before, because the history of Slovenia began with the previous mandate, but probably with mandates from independence onward? I'm sure they'll be able to tell, because now they're talking about why it wasn't then. The other thing is that during the period of economic growth, when some sitting here also saw overheating of the Slovenian economy, these measures were significantly less current when, last of all, they received very cheap sufficient loans. Of course, this liquidity of companies was not so established. Today is, today is a crisis, unfortunately even a recession in Slovenia. And today these measures are still very current. This, Your Honor, is the answer, why, of course, these measures are on the table as early as they could be today. And once again, let me be answered by those who ask why it was not in the previous term, why it was not in their mandate when they ruled for 12 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u54	Hearing the debate so far has given me the idea that some have forgotten how the procedure has been going, what has already been said, how someone has changed their views and how someone has already voted later changed their minds. First of all, let me remind you that this proposal for content, this bill is not a bill written by the current opposition, but is a proposal for the economy of all the chambers and the two employers' organisations of Slovenia. This proposal was thus written in 2008. The second thing to remember is the fact that the Government has once received a decision to return these, as they now say, 130 to 150 million overpaid VAT. She's adopted that attitude, and she's got it now. We only differ at the rate. And those who have forgotten it have forgotten. Those who are now wondering where we're going to take it, so the government probably already knew where she was going to take it if she suggested she would take it. It's not the mission of Members to think instead of the government. If the Government proposes an amendment, if the Government proposes a proposal, of course it must also consider how it will do so. And it was already proposed once by the government that this would be at least in June. Well, she had to know how she was going to act this year. Third time. Some have forgotten that the reason for this, Durs' incompetence of controls, was very quickly abandoned. Only the first few days talked about it, then the government also found that it could be monitored and controlled in a short time, and therefore proposed a 21-day deadline for recovery. It is said that this reason is long gone as well. So Durs is capable of doing it. Now it is considered a bad alibi when we refer to it. The next reason that would have been mentioned was the deficit. Let me remind you, we're shorthanded. And let me remind you that the government promised a few days ago that the deficit would be significantly greater than planned. And that the government has also abandoned that argument, which is called the Maastricht terms. Not to mention 0.3% of GDP anymore, it says that the deficit will be increased by about two percentage points. And that here is some diaphazone for which solutions will be sought for a faster exit from the economic and financial crisis. The government also predicted a rebalancing. It is likely that during this period, as it prepares the balance, it has sufficient opportunities, including time to consider how to help, including through such measures as we are now talking about, the economy. The government has also announced a third wave of measures. Some say they'd be demolished if they changed something now. You know, some of the measures from the third wave, as predicted, will not work until two years or not. Some have already limited themselves to predicting that we cannot afford to fund workers and that we cannot do something similar. And if we're just going to say nice things about these third wave measures that we're going to get - I don't know - when, then the economy will be much more tormented not to say smurf in their individual works by then. When I support this amendment, which provides funds for the real sector before the law provides, I also recall that we have adopted another law in which we have written in the introduction, the government writes that we must shorten the path of financial resources to the real sector. This is a great opportunity to do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Excuse me, excuse me. First of all, Mr. Lucky Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. The fact is, when a country is in debt, it is difficult to return. But when a country is essentially obliged to recover something, it's on a liquid tape. In the financial context, the liquidity of businesses is not good because money on the market is more expensive. And it is so much more imperative that we take this measure so that the state returns immediately what is not itss. Back to the account, of course, of the one who had to take it to the state. In this way, we will help the economy as quickly as possible. And not only that, we need to introduce financial discipline. Because it still happens that companies that do business well, but because of financial discipline with excellent products on the market, are in liquidity difficulties due to financial non-discipline. But this country doesn't care. Nothing at all. Since the claim is open, the state collects its 20% on the exhibited delivery and does not care if the person who made the quality product gets paid as well. And there is a major problem in this bush, or rabbit, where the state does not want to establish a hunting relationship. And as long as we run away from responsibility in this way, the Slovenian economy will deteriorate. And the fact is that what you're putting down for 2010 is also wrong. I support this amendment and the measure must be immediate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Dear associates and coworkers! Clearly, it is clear to all in this National Assembly that the proposal of the VAT return law and the proposal of this amendment are both welcome and fair. But I hope it's also clear to everyone that he's ineffective. Action is now needed to help the economy directly. Now we need a guarantee scheme for which we were able enough to find a great deal of consensus in its implementation. Direct subsidies and targeted measures are now needed. For example, my view is that we should further encourage subsidies to invest in efficient energy use, in energy - where it is not only about building new blocks of thermal power plants, but also more modern technology. With this proposal to implement immediately after publication in the Official Journal, we will spend 130 million euros to save the economy a month of interest. A million euros and nothing more. We're aware of that. 130 for one million. Who needs additional credit today, however, has the right to have the guarantee scheme that we have just adopted. Or, we don't believe in a clear scheme. I doubt it, given that we've all been happy to support her. Now, fellow workers, coworkers, is not the time to be able to afford liquidity to help those who do not need help. It's not the time to help those who don't need help. Of course, everyone loves money, but the question is whether they need help or not. At this point, there are two priorities. One is to help those who need help and are healthy enough to be justified. And two, to help the economy take advantage of the moment and to restructure itself into an economy of knowledge and development, technological development. One that will come out of the crisis in a better way than the situation with which it fell. We need to help with measures that will have a clear objective. The crisis raised questions about the law of the market and put the law of man at the forefront. Today we are not just talking about helping the economy. Today we are talking about solidarity, which, more than yesterday, we need in our society. That it won't be the first thought we have again, the one that Margaret Teacher beats on the tables of the European Union and screams "I won't my money back!".. I want my money back. It's not that we want our money back at this point. As soon as there's a crisis, of course your money is back. We're making a major mistake here. This is not an economic crisis, co-workers, co-workers, this is a social crisis because the crisis is the values of neoliberalism. And we need to start thinking differently with such a crisis. It's not about helping the economy. It is a matter of helping the whole of society so that the whole company and our way of thinking can be restructured. Therefore, I think it is time to arrange as best as possible the time of 2010. And that now is the time, with the little money that the entire world economy still has and, of course, also the Slovenian economy and the Slovenian budget, to carry out smartly, purposefully and to put it where not only the economy, but the whole society, including workers, including pensioners, including young students, so that we aim it where society needs it most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Chapich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. I wouldn't want to repeat too much of what my colleague Yuri said. It is one measure where I support the law itself and the purposes of the law. However, I do not support this amendment, which is now shortening the deadline, despite the fact that it may look like one of the proposed proposals of this law in order to return as soon as possible. Even if I take into account the previous referral by my colleague Barovic, let us forget who was proposing this law and who was proposing the amendment, we cannot forget who led this economic sector in the previous mandate, where, in the event of a slightly better economic situation, a higher gross social product, with the growth of all of this, even such a measure, which is undoubtedly for the economy and those paying this VAT, is extremely important, has also been implemented. The point is that much earlier, perhaps even the previous government, not just the one that was, would shorten it. The shortening of this deadline means exactly what colleague Yuri has already stressed. This is about helping a part of the economy, not the whole economy, because most of the economy pays VAT and does not get it back because it is the purpose and purpose of the value added tax, that part of the money is paid even in cash, and that is only one month. Not anymore. This year, however, the country will permanently lose 150m euros, 160m euros, because a simple calculation says it will receive 12 VAT payments, and the surplus will bring them back 13 or even more because it is 21 days more than one month. This means that this is a calculation, and it will lose and it will not be able to replace this money in the current year with any other measure. However, this money is extremely important to ensure that the measures that this government is taking, including through the 2009 budget rebalancing and also through the proposal for a rebalancing that is now emerging, will be extremely important in order to alleviate the social tensions that arise, as well as to subsidise and encourage the economies that will thus receive or through the budget through other forms of co-financing. That's why I won't support this amendment. The law itself, as an intention and a desire of the government to change that for 2010, I think, when I do not know the situation that will be 2010, the very brave action of this government, which in some way is already committed to doing so in advance in 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Bezik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u62	Mr Vice President, Mr Bézjak, yes. Hello, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, Members. Why has the Slovenian Democratic Party decided to table an amendment to the Proposal for a Law amending the Value Added Tax Act? Just for one reason - how to create and help businesses in the liquidity problems in which they actually came at the moment. Tomorrow we will no longer have to help, for if companies fail, then it is a disaster for the whole of Slovenia. Last summer, the financial crisis in the United States began to take on noticeable dimensions. Banks and other banking institutions have mostly lent a lot of money as mortgage loans to people who are unable to pay or have a poor credit rating. Despite the measures taken by many central banks and governments around the world, this financial crisis has moved to the economic sector. In these days news is coming from car manufacturers, as sales have already fallen by more than 50%. This is followed by the large redundancies of employees in this business. In a number of countries, they are already facing a major recession. At the end of the previous term, Slovenia was in the biggest economic growth, as the history of Slovenia remembers. Even when this government took over its mandate, indicators were very good, as Slovenia was expected to achieve 3.1% economic growth in 2009 and 4% economic growth in 2010. Therefore, there was no talk of any recession in Slovenia. However, at the present time, better said yesterday, the situation has become different, as macroeconomic indicators show that the current economic situation is worrying, as the 2009 forecast is, believe it or not, minus 4%. It's no wonder they run Slovenia and the capital. Due to the liquidity problems faced by companies, we have proposed in the SDS a reduction in the refund paid from the current 60-day deadline to the 7-day deadline. It is our opinion that this would also have a positive impact on business-to-business payments, as there would be no more excuses, since the state does not pay faster than 60 days, how should we then pay economic operators. Less developed countries, including Slovenia, have smaller payment deadlines. Not long ago, we were talking about underdeveloped countries. Estonia, which has been in the common country of the Soviet Union, now has a repayment deadline of overpaid VAT for up to five days. On the working body, the Committee on Finance, we have come to the concept of common agreement that this payment period is actually 21 days. We agreed with that, too, it was only a step forward for the economy, for the liquidity problems the current economy has in Slovenia. Soon, however, a 10-minute break is taken, and the SD Group comes with another ideology that they cannot adopt this law this year, and they move it to 2010. It is now said that, in fact, companies do not yet need this overpaid VAT money this year to be more needed in 2010. Maybe so. But believe me, then there will be no more businesses. Then I also wonder how you Members and Members will come for the wages you deserve in this National Assembly. Then give yourself, let's give ourselves, Members and Members, also pour pure wine - let's work for free and come for the payment slips for the second year, maybe this measure will hold up. I cannot understand at all what has been said that the tax system in the Republic of Slovenia is not harmonised and could not consistently control economic operators if they reduce the payment deadline. That's not true. We know for ourselves that in 2006 the concentration of the tax system was created. From smaller tax units, the economic sector has moved to larger tax units. That's not how it works. It is true that some updates are needed in the tax system, but we must not oppose these updates, but rather help them to be as fast as possible. We are talking about 130 million euro deficits in the state budget balance that we have nowhere to take them. We do, believe me! In the balance you have proposed for the Secretary-General's function a large item, that is more money. There's a lot more money for the president of the country. Not to mention any of these items that you have increased. I don't know why. If there is a recession, then let it be for all of us, too, here in Parliament. This proposal does not like it. It was said earlier by one fellow Members: "This proposal does not like the economy, but will be liked for the state bureaucracy so that it can receive a salary of 5 per month, money for a normal life." Do not feel that this proposal is being made by colored people. We make this proposal out of the economy of those who feel the current crisis. You many in here don't know what's coming. This has already been pointed out at the end of last year, with great smiles from certain Members and Members. Now we're in this situation that's outside the door. It's not just the automotive industry, it's construction, there's carriers here, so I won't list all the entities. It is true that in the bulk of the work, the mayors manipulate the construction workers in their areas so that they do not pay for their tasks after a year. That's one question to ask. Those Members will vote against this amendment. In this country, with this short-term payment discipline between all economic operators, let it be done, not just for some. I hope and believe that this amendment will be voted on today, as your coalition colleague, Mr Willi Rezman, knows the pressure of the economy to adopt this amendment, so he also supports it, as do I and all my fellow Members. I believe your sympathy will be such that you will not be able to vote against this amendment, but that you will press the key for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u63	Mr. Bezjak. Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u64	Good day to all present! It all shows that the importance of this law, or particularly of this amendment, is so great that the presence in the Chamber is appropriate. I'd like to draw your attention to some strange things. Mr Jerovšek, you will have the opportunity to speak when you have the word. I have heard many unusual claims today, and I would like to react. First time. When you return our message to us when we asked ourselves why last year at the beginning of the year, when everything was blooming and smelling after the successful leadership of the country, there was no law proposed amending the VAT Act in this respect, as we are considering today. You're saying there was no need for that because the economy didn't need it. The timely or rapid return of overpaid VAT has always been of interest to the economy and, therefore, it is funny to say that this was not necessary before or that there was no need. But it's something else. At the time, at least it was said that there was a large budget surplus, it is said that this budget surplus could be used for a single deficit in the account of the more early overpaid VAT. It is interesting that we are now constantly talking about how to help the economy, but we forget that the state budget is a source of assistance to the economy in a variety of events or laws that we have already adopted and all the way from the guarantee scheme forward. In addition, the effectiveness of subsidising part-time or full-time payment aid, when reduced to 36 and 32 hours, is highly denied. It is interesting that you only hear and see those who have a negative assessment, those companies that claim that this law has helped them in any way that workers can at least, otherwise, be reduced, but at least they pay their contributions to the full and reduce their working hours, that this law has helped them very much, and you hear nothing and you see nothing. Interesting. It is said that in the face of reduced spillages due to bankruptcys that come after each other, in particular bankruptcys that are due to the greed of some people who have mismanaged businesses in the past who have been scrutinisingly buying Yes, Mr Pojbič, you too will have the opportunity to speak when you get the word. [[..]] Now shut up, please. Shut up, I said. Let's say exactly what happened last night, and what happened last night, we know what happened and what kind of people did what they did to bring businesses into bankruptcy and who helped them. I think the only amendment you put in good money was an amendment to guarantee schemes that prevents the extension or the granting of loans to those who have borrowed loans for management purposes. I think we're going to get to the point where banks are going to have to take their part in such frauds, I can't say anything else. However, that the reduction or implementation of the VAT drawback earlier than the end of this year could mean that the economy will pay the most "gore", if I can say at home, because Slovenia will no longer have the rating it is doing today because we will overcome the Maastricht deficit, of course you are not interested. You're only interested in this moment and this effect this second. For this reason, I think that there is a need for a little thoughtfulness and a little national thinking, but not always only in the short term and only for some groups of companies. I therefore think that such an amendment cannot be supported and that too much damage would be done to our country if such an amendment and such an amendment were adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Jožko Godec will not discuss it. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! First of all, I'd like to find out that I don't see any government representatives. The marriage itself is not so insignificant that it can be so ignorant. But well, that's other things. We all note that times are difficult, the conditions under which economic operators work are difficult, and since then the Slovenian proverb has always been that each euro comes in handy in such situations. We are essentially talking about the liquidity of the economy. The first thing that happens in times of crisis or in difficult times is an extension of the payment deadline. This means direct inefficiencies. This is said to be true, the partners of economic operators are on the same, they are in the same chain and they are also extending their payment. This means that the economy is short-termly running out of money for a certain period, which is making real liquidity worse. At the same time, companies have to pay their VAT to the emperor, which is Caesar's, which is normal and are later awaiting a return by the state. According to some statistics, this payment period has been extended by about one month over the last few months. And businesses at the same time are waiting for the refund of overpaid VAT, that's what they call their money. It's not someone else's money. Taxes to be paid anyway. It's just the part that's theirs. And this money is available to the state. It's no big deal, but it's about when this money comes back, when the country will bring it back. The law now applies that this should be returned within 60 days or in 30 days, if that is the case. There are countries in the European Union that have a 7-day deadline, Baltic countries, for example, have a 7-day deadline. And so do others. So it's a system like this. It's about the economy's money. And our proposal or proposal for an economy, however you wish, as has already been said today, is that it is necessary to return earlier. We proposed in the first phase of 7 days. Such a measure would be necessary and effective. And at that time, it's also necessary to bridge that extension. One of the measures is the extension of payment periods. After an excruciating, lengthy discussion at the previous meeting, the government listened to this, but only partially. The arguments that Durs is not capable of carrying out payment transactions in such a way as to avoid distortions are that 21 days is the period within which Durs can still monitor, or everything is legal. Okay, that's something, too. That's a step forward. But what if that proposal that has now come from the Government is essentially debasing, namely, that this measure, which has repaid overpaid VAT, has only been valid since 1.1.2010. And that's mutilated. I hope that then this measure will no longer be necessary, for an optimistic reason, so that the situation will be better. Some have also spoken today, but what if there is no longer any economic operator at that time, and this measure will not be necessary, even under this black scenario. As I have already said, because of the deterioration of payment conditions, any euro that comes sooner is welcome. And such a measure, which would come into force immediately, is a real refund of overpaid VAT right now, would be welcome and necessary, as well as necessary. Of course, we have to ask ourselves now whether we have the money for it. Fourteen days ago, it was said that more than €200 million was needed for such an intervention. I've already heard half that amount today, 120 million. I'm not going to say that it doesn't matter what the number is, but that just means that there's been some kind of sobering, that they're not so large and that it's more of a will thing. The money could be obtained in the draft budget, so to speak, a balance where over €250 million is spent on full-time financing. Now it's used up a little over 10%, not 20%. We all note that there will be at least EUR 200 million left here. If this measure is 120 million euros heavy, that means we have money. This money to finance working time will remain. I'm not going to speculate where this could go. Maybe on another occasion. Not here. It's too serious a topic. But the money will remain in the budget and we could use it for this measure. That's what they say. It's about listening. It's not about listening. It's not about doing this right now. And let's ask ourselves who's powering the state budget, the economy, the real sector and why we're choking them, why we're not giving them the money that's theirs and so on. No, we prefer to take different measures: let the economy be in debt and for the money to be liquid, to pay interest. The difference is more than obvious, the difference is great. It is not acceptable to argue that there will be an outage in the budget if this measure is to be adopted with immediate effect, because we have to have money for intervention. The rebalancing that has provided for large funds for such interventions is based on unrealistic foundations. That's another story. And we'll have a balance sheet. You've already announced that. Why is that necessary? I don't know. We would put it all together on a realistic basis, but it would not be necessary to announce the balance of the balance now that we have barely accepted the balance because it is an unrealistic balance. That's weird stuff. And also an argument why this has not already been done, why it has not been done in the previous period. Yeah, you know, that kind of system's been in place for, I don't know, 15 years, or since it's been on its own. Nor did the previous government change it because there was no signal from the economy. It was true, however, that there was no crisis in the previous government, there was 7% economic growth, and now we have a minus 4% economic growth. I'm not going to discuss who's more responsible for this or less. Make an impression on yourself. At this point, we have a negative 4%, but before the bad year, we had a positive 7. Think about it. But it's liquidity. It's liquidity maintenance. And if you pay someone back your own money, then he's self-sustaining, not with credit and interest, because you took his money away from him, then you offer him credit to make more money to be liquid if he wants to be liquid, he's gonna have to pay more interest. And maybe it won't hurt to have a little more comment on the techerism. It's true that Thatcher said she wanted her money back. She showed Europe her power. But, look, maybe this is real now. Economic operators want their money back. Why should someone else have access to his money? And now we're in a phase, when we can say, I'm gonna watch your money and I'm gonna distribute it in my taste to the one I want to help. I think it's a little out of date at this point and in this situation as we are. And last but not least, economic operators can ask themselves why we should not get rid of our own money, why we should use foreign money to borrow it. Let's give them our money, let them get rid of themselves, let them have their money, let them have their money, let them have their money, not say that the country will have problems, because we will give someone their own money back. Even so, we can think, it's perfectly legitimate. Economists who fight for survival would like to have every cent in time or sooner. Maybe you shouldn't ask someone to lend me money because I'm in trouble because I can't get mine because someone's using it. Okay, the law is that, but if we can agree to give it back to them sooner, the solution is that, and maybe some measure is off. And it doesn't have to depend on the other, it can depend on its work and its money, but it doesn't have to ask for its money, it doesn't get it, and it has to ask for foreign funds. So someone lends it to you, and you have to pay it off, maybe, with interest. That is why, of course, I think this measure is correct and this amendment, which we are proposing, seems to me to be in place, necessary and necessary. Perhaps some measure may also fall away, so of course I will vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u68	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will, of course, support this proposed amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party because I am sure that this law should be adopted in the previous year, at the end of 2008, because it would improve the liquidity situation of a large company. Since this has not happened, we are trying, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, with the proposal of this amendment, to close this matter so that this law will be in force as soon as possible, because we are convinced that the economy needs this law. I am also personally convinced that everything needs to be done to keep every job, because you know, we have a problem with one and the other every day, and the third and the fourth bankruptcy. Today, a colleague from SD has already talked about some individuals who can be mentioned here today, says Mr Bavčar, who is certainly not a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but of the LDS. There are quite a few people who have brought society into an extremely difficult situation. I would like to stress here the following. When we talk about the importance of jobs, I would like to emphasise the following: Please, if you do not disturb me in my debate! [[..]] I have the information from the Employment Office, which says: "The Employment Institute announced on 9 February 2009 that we had a marked increase in unemployment in January this year. At the end of January, 73 thousand 911 were registered in the institution, 11.6% more than December 2008 and 6.7% more than January last year." In January, 12 000 895 unemployed persons were registered at the new establishment. The number of newly reported persons increased by 65.4% compared to December, with an increase of 78% compared to January 2008. According to the Statistics Office of the Republic of Slovenia of 18 March 2009, unemployment is approaching 80,000. And, dear colleagues, I am listening to the discussion of my friends, you, fellow Members and Members of Parliament from Zares, who claim that the amendment is incorrect. In LDS, you claim that the amendment is demagogy. In the SD, some of your Members argue that the economy does not need assistance. Dear colleagues, that's amazing. Simply everyone sitting in this hall, and all those listening to us now, must be appalled at what you are doing. The ones who are most responsible at this point in time for everything to be done in order to get this country on the road, as the electorates and voters have entrusted it to you. And, of course, in the end, the opposition is the one who must solve your incompetence. Your inability to run this country has led Slovenia to a point where we have from 0.6% of GDP in a positive direction minus 4% in a negative direction, in the struggles of four months of running this country. I am not saying that this has not been affected by the global economic and financial situation, but certainly if such measures as the Slovenian Democratic Party had been proposed, there would not be such a situation in the country at this point. And there wouldn't be that many unemployed in this country. This law is certainly one of the laws that can help prevent more unemployed. It can help. And so I ask you to support this amendment on behalf of the economy today. Not because of demagogies, not because this amendment was incorrect and the economy did not need help, not because of it. Because I am convinced that every job we hold is extremely important, every single job. I therefore ask you once again, on behalf of the economy, to vote for this amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, while also addressing the mistakes made by you, who have taken over the leadership of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Miroslav Klun will not discuss it. Yes, you were mentioned. Here you go. Certainly not by name, but the parties mentioned were. It was mentioned Indeed, it was mentioned by LDS and it was mentioned by SD. Here's your word, but then you don't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Indeed a replica, given that colleague Pojbič mentioned Really that we claim this amendment to be incorrect and demagogic [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u71	I'm sorry, time's up. Mr. Miroslav Klun will not discuss it. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! If anything, Slovenia today needs well-thought-out measures to promote economic growth and also to address social distress in some who are no longer employed today because the simple market is no longer functioning as it has been in previous years. I think that some companies would also be happy to wait 60 days for the value added tax to come back if they had something to sell. So it is a fact that nothing helps, even if we quickly return value added tax if no service is provided. Our objective should be to enable the economy to provide a service. And then the value added tax is paid out of this service. Therefore, the measures cannot in any way be uniform, narrow, but must be harmonised in the overall scheme, which is represented by a number of factors in the governance of the country. And if we are already talking about running the country, it is really incomprehensible that the party who today says that this is the solution and the only solution for the economy recognises at the same time that they preferred to hire loans in the previous mandate because they were favourable conditions. Excuse me, this is proof of the short-term policy and the real inability to run the country that we witnessed in the previous term. And the consequences of such guidance are felt today. It is very difficult to manage the debt, Slovenia, because it is already extremely in charge of measures at the time of exceptional economic growth. And that is what still weighs on us today as we look for successful and appropriate solutions. However, once again, I would like to make it very clear that it is necessary at this point to think more clearly and in a more sober and coordinated manner, both with all the government authorities and with all the parties in Parliament, when we are assessing measures that could help the economy and which could also alleviate social distress. And I stress that if we do not also establish some form of consumption, because consumption is also the one that allows the product to be sold, and that those who produce the product also pay the value added tax. [[...]] If we do not expose this market, and not only the Slovenian market, but also the common European market, then we can face the fact that we will not actually have anything to pay the VAT and also, as I have already said, to pay it back. Many of the measures envisaged by the European Union also go in the direction of promoting development as well and thus rationalising production, and this can also encourage the development of jobs that will be even more creative than they were before yesterday when this crisis was not taking place. That is why it is extremely important that we try to get as whole out of this crisis as possible, if we can call it that, so that we can have an adequate development ahead of us tomorrow. And this is the task of the current government. I hope that this composition of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia as well. However, I do not think that any far-off accusation can lead to this situation, but above all, the economy does not want Parliament to bet on such and other indications here. The economy expects, above all, coordinated solutions that will not be one-day but actually solutions that will allow it to plan its long-term development even in these critical moments in which we are today. Therefore, this compromise, which was also adopted in the drafting of the Proposal for a Value Added Tax Law in order to reduce the value added tax to 21 days, is certainly one of the useful and necessary compromises. In this compromise, I think it would be appropriate to remain, because, as everything appears to be, we can remain in this position until the beginning of next year. In the meantime, as we have already heard, we expect a number of new measures, as well as facts that dictate different decisions, as we have already taken in the rebalancing process. If we just remember what the consequences could be if the rebalancing was not adopted in Slovenia and voting against the rebalancing would now also mean that it is voting against measures that are already giving results in order to mitigate the economic crisis. But better, it was obviously an estimate not to accept the balance, because then everyone will go even worse than if the balance were accepted. The balance sheet is always needed in public finances precisely for the reason that you are coordinating with it everything that is actually happening in the public financial area at some point. Each budget and budget balance is a plan. And this plan is being complemented and coordinated according to the needs and capabilities of the public finance sector. And even if there is a rebalancing, the balance will happen, because these things need to be taken into account and we need to be as operational as possible, as practical as possible, but not rigid, and, I would say, bound by some principles that, in fact, in Slovenia at this moment, even the wider world cannot be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes won't discuss it. Tom Mencinger has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I will support the proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act, but I will not support the amendment. But there's something I'd like to say first of all. In fact, we've been listening to demagogy for a long time, but it's practically a cubic demagogy. We warned three months ago about the crisis that is creeping into our country, we said that there are problems with entrepreneurs, and companies had quite a laugh on the other hand that there is no crisis. Now we are listening to the story quite the opposite, that the government does not react in time, that the government does not have measures. I think it's really sad enough, and I hope that people, viewers, viewers are watching these things, and they also see who was warning who is now speaking against these things. The next thing I think is that some fellow Members forget that they have been leading this country for four years, that they have taken certain measures to adopt policies in these four years, which unfortunately now shows that in some parts it has been incorrect and ineffective. To talk about 7% of economic growth at some point, I think it's a demagogy again, because the actual situation that was in the markets at the time was really very favourable. Now to say that the state and government have made a 4% drop in this economic growth in these four months, I think it's demagogy again because the real thing has changed overnight in the global economic field. We have practically witnessed the collapse of the financial system, the collapse of economic policy as such in a global sense. I am convinced that the crisis as such is just coming to Slovenia, that we have not yet come to the lower part of this curve. This is also confirmed by the fact that in Germany this economic growth is minus five percent, which means that if they sneeze in Germany, we will have the least chance here if not something else. I would suggest that we actually talk about the country, that we seek common solutions and that we do not burden viewers and viewers, that we do not burden others with these things. Let's look for solutions that will be good for our country of Slovenia. Maybe he'd only mention two or three. I am sure that we have done little or nothing in persecuting the grey economy. There is also an area which is unfair competition for craftsmen and entrepreneurs, does not pay taxes, work on this market and can lower prices. And this payment discipline, but not so much on the part of the state as large systems that have their own subsystems, especially smaller entrepreneurs, and then with different contracts and different ways does not cover them, does not pay, and in fact happens what happens that these small businesses have very big problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u76	Your Honor! On Saturday afternoon, I listened to Radio Slovenia. And this, while I was somewhere on my way to Maribor, reported on protests in Frankfurt, Hannover and other major European cities. Protests by those who demand that we take advantage of the current crisis for the fundamental social changes that Slovenia, Europe and the world need. These protests were then accompanied by a sentence on the radio: Slovenia rests peacefully in the meantime. At the time I returned from the coalition summit, from Brda to Kranj, and I was in good spirits, because I was armed with the knowledge that the government coalition is very aware of why this economic and financial crisis is going on and what are the opportunities and necessity facing Slovenia during this crisis. In this respect, I would like to discuss, instead of the issue of the already seen amendment, what today really stands as a challenge to Slovenian politics and which, last but not least, provides an opportunity for some new developmental consensus between the position and opposition, between employers and employees, between NGOs in the community as a whole. We need a new social contract, we need a contract that will redefine responsibility and control over the financial system, we need a regulation of greed and instead of greed as a driver of our social arrangements to put man and his creative powers. We need a new balance between public and private and a new relationship between the country and the market. Your amendment in the sense of law, which I support in principle, shows your understanding that the crisis caused by the market can also solve the market. Here are our fundamental differences. We believe that only one new social agreement on new social development can come from this crisis, with the world as well as Slovenia. And this cannot be based on the invisible hand of Adam Smith, who in the last 30 years has completely cancelled her task of regulating the relationship in society, because even on the basis of this, she is unable to now this invisible deadline, destroyed, as it is, to re-regulation the world. That's not working. What worries me is the possible successful adoption of today's amendment, which would quickly exacerbate our common possibilities. Last week, we were taking on a rebalancing. You were wondering why we're accepting a rebalancing that's no longer up to date. And in fact, on this side of the hall, we have been able to tell you that this balance is made on the basis of a starting point that no longer applies. However, it is better to adopt a rebalancing at the starting points that speak 0.6% of economic growth than to insist on what you have adopted, which is made at the pre-risk of substantial, substantially higher economic growth and consequently significantly higher revenues. Today, it is the responsibility of the National Assembly to ask what we will do with limited income so that some social benefits will be maximized. It is a development that we will preserve jobs and, above all, that we will also better protect people's social security. The social security of the individual and the community must remain at the centre of our policy even during this crisis. Because only the creative powers, knowledge and innovation of man will draw Slovenia out of this crisis. In this respect, I think we face some serious challenges. And I would like to, because I don't want to attribute bad intentions to the opposition, I believe that we can all have genuine, good intentions together, but I think we need to start dealing with real issues in this regard. Despite the idea that this amendment, with the immediate validity of the new VAT law, will help the economy, we will, in fact, prevent the country from helping the economy, through structural and better targeted measures, to preserve jobs and the fundamental restructuring that we need for greater innovation, for additional value and for the new pressured way of Slovenia, rather than for the society of knowledge and innovation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I am very pleased to hear now that the coalition party on the Hill was successful on Saturday, that, as the speaker said, Members were happy to return home, but it seems that some of the elements from there are operating today. Today you explain that in Slovenia everything is okay, that it actually works better, if anything is wrong, is the fault of the global crisis, and at home everything is done best. I don't know, I think the situation is quite different and reversed: that before our eyes under this government, the Slovenian economy is going to fall apart or into immeasurable trouble. And that, in fact, the government, the coalition doesn't slip away. The only thing she did was invite the coalition to the Hill party. The proposals that are offered from elsewhere offered by the economy are vilified. One such proposal is also the return of overpaid VAT. With all four of you, defend yourself so that this will take effect at the right time, so that there will be any effects on the economy, on reducing unemployment and so on. And the main problem with the current power is that it is lost in confusion, that it is justified only on the global crisis, and the problem is also the power of tycoon connections and tycoon influences, which have direct leverage to power. Still. And that is why, of course, I cannot accept the obvious or debate in which Breda Pecan used to talk about greed and self-sacrifice. And she pointed her finger at that side. Yeah, for God's sake, whose tuxedo clientele is it? Wasn't that your clients' clientele, it was forever, and it's today. Show me a tycoon who owned something at some company, and it belongs to this side! There's no such tycoons, for God's sake! And now the young ideologist is talking about regulating greed. Not the removal of greed under your authority, not the elimination of greed, but the regulation of greed, so that it will look good on the outside, that you people will "paint" again to take measures to act and so on. Regulated greed, it's a good plot of coalition species. Look, I'm sure no regulation of greed, but if you wrap it in even better colored paper, it's not appropriate. The removal of this fertilized creature and the cutting of it is necessary. And that's not what the current government is going to do and it's not going to do. Moreover, the last time a Member drew attention to specific cases, he received from the coalition types an insult, a simple reaction which Mr President did not even wish to register in the case of Mr Levanič. When I myself pointed out that there was also one of those companies that was completely state-owned, where, in my opinion, there were quite a few years of "fat cows", and in the end, there was almost nothing left at the end of the account, it was necessary to ask where the money went from such companies, and they were completely under the control of managers. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u79	Mr Jerovšek, if you warn me whether I react or not, then I must tell you that we have an examination of the value added tax law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u80	Yeah, I'm looking at the economic side and this law that we could do on the other hand. Mr. Potts, so much so that we can understand each other. Probably. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u81	I haven't heard one word from you to mention value added tax. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u82	I'm probably less distant than your Members, but you just don't react there, and you react here, of course. Mr Levanic - in this law it is necessary to say this - he denied himself the last time he declared me a court jester in my absence. I don't know why with a discount, because I'm not so small a law that I could be mentioned by a discount. I think the court jesters were more childish. And, look, he demented himself. He said that the company where I was once alerted to wild property had been removed, that the price of the product had now fallen by 60% and that it was still operating successfully. Sam has offered proof that there has to be 60% of income in the past years, I don't know, unprovoked or something, if, even now, when the price has fallen 60%, it is still a success. You know what kind of money this is! What money is that? And that's why I'm glad that with that insult, actually, the MP from young's theory of subconscious warned himself. After young, the one who has a complex, a frustration, projectes it to another and condemns it to what is its own complex. And look, that's why I'm calling on the government to take action seriously. Listen, we are reading these days unheard of statements by newly appointed bank directors not to act on unsecured loans in the past. They just tolerate some of the crimes. And I, when you say to us, the fault of our government is, somehow, I admit that we have not made personnel changes in these banking institutions, as well as in state companies, where money has been done. It's our fault. But you've been babbling about the personnel tsunami, and it wasn't possible. And some of the presidents of the control councils were the voice of the outcry in the desert, and everything around them was just like the old days all the time. Therefore, take the responsibility you need to take and start taking measures that will benefit the economy. One of these is being offered to you now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, I must conclude that you did not discuss the bill. I just consciously didn't go to warn you again because he's out of his mind. Because at every point, you talk about what you think. And when I'm in charge, I'll let you do it, too, unless it's too bad, because that's how everyone notices that the content isn't relevant to the agenda. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u84	Now I've got a little bit of a problem. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Previous expertise on the economic and economic and financial situation in Slovenia and political analysis and a lot of words in pencils, that this government is confused, that this government is connected with tycoon ties, etc., it is gruesome, reminding me that I can only twist into one sentence: words without meaning are like pants without bracelets. That's all! It's over! I can predict and suppose that the proposaler also had a good purpose in trying to supplement this law, but he missed the timing. I, too, do not think that the time in which this amendment is proposed is appropriate. The time for this amendment proposed by the proposer today was much better when he led the economic sector. That's when he had the chance. The economy must always be helped, regardless of the times and turbulences that are taking place. The economy always needs some kind of assistance from the state. And he didn't do it then. Even though he and the government boasted of a large surplus, these things could also be adjusted to the economy. In short, my point is that it's not the right time to make this change. And the Government's explanation of why it is not the right time is correct, and I think it is also definitive about this proposal. So once again, I will uphold the law, this amendment, which is repeated in the third, not anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kolarič won't discuss it. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I take this Parliament as an institution, as the right address for finding solutions, for dialogue, for talking, for agreeing on finding these solutions. And when my fellow Member, Willi Rezman, said that this was not my proposal, this is not an opposition proposal that this is an economic proposal, he was right. For this is a proposal that has been very, very often lately, I have been stressing recently, which has been put forward by economic operators. Why? Because economic operators sensed that such a solution would bring them significantly more in these times than any other solution, or as it would have brought them within a period of one year, two, five or ten years ago. That is why this proposal is on the table and we are discussing it. However, I am engaged in a lot of political disqualifications. But it's not a political proposal! The proposal is very simple and oriented towards bringing the interests and expectations of the economy closer. And the economy needs this treatment in these times. Here today I have heard some nonsense in the direction that the previous government has not felt the coming crisis and that we have been saying months ago that there is no crisis, that is nonsense. Why, then, did the previous government, at the time of the intergovernmental process, devote one of the meetings to an analysis of the situation? The Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development has prepared: Possible measures during the crisis and why the Government has taken four anti-crisis measures - the previous outgoing government! You two are lucky to have just now, so to speak, the Banking Act and the Public Finance Act. The Banking Act, which introduced the State guarantee or, yes, the State guarantee for bank deposits and, of course, the Public Finance Act, which opened the way for guarantees for the functioning of the interbank market and also for the mitigation of the credit crunch. The former government has yet to feel, but it has said that if the measures are timely, if the measures are effective, there will be no recession in Slovenia, because no one has announced them at the time; not even the international institutions – not the Slovenian Office for Macroeconomic Relations, not the international institutions! At the time of the recession, this is a negative economic growth in two quarters of a row, he did not predict! I also say that the European institutions do not. Why? Because they expected Slovenia to be at least as effective in dealing with those issues as it was previously a policy economy in Slovenia. And the international community has counted as much as we do in the opposition, of course! She's got it! Look at the numbers, I'm not going to be "scramming" you here about what I'd say, some political flat-rate ratings. Today, information on confidence in the economy in the European Union has been published. In the European Union, it fell by 0.6% to 60.3%; in the euro area it fell by 0.7% to 74.6%; in Slovenia it fell by 1.08%, that is to say, three times more than in the European Union, three times more to 44.1% and is at a devastatingly low level. Here, resolve these arguments, if, in the previous term, you had a favourable, good economic growth, because everything was good, we had a 3% higher economic growth than the average of the European Union, and now we record worse results than the average of the European Union. The forecast of 0.4% of economic growth is also very poor, among the worst. That's why your argument fades, if we're here in some environment, let Germany sneeze, we don't know what we have. Don't think! This means that you are incapable of pursuing economic policies and relying on the actions of others, and we are sinking and the economy is sinking. When the opposition proposes one law that is written on the skin of the economy, because it is, in fact, summarized according to the proposals of both chambers, we are accused - I don't know, populism, etc. Thank God that you have actually realized that this is our proposal, because the Government attributed this proposal to itself and said that this is one of the important measures taken by the Government, the reduction of payment deadlines or VAT repayment periods to 21 days. The Government's amendment to the law proposed by the opposition is now a government measure. Fine, really! So, I would like to point out that, unlike the many Flossules I have heard, this concrete measure that helps the economy immediately, and I have been involved - not in any face-to-face with these things, but more or less political mud. And I almost feel that, especially because I heard some old speeches written here and read them and they no longer reflect the current situation. For example, it has been said that Slovenia will lose its rating because it will increase its deficit due to this law, if it is accepted, the deficit will be greater than the Maastricht and this will throw us into lower credit treatment. Look at what the balance has just been when we consciously know that these incomes on which the balance was based will not be, we consciously know. On the expenditure side, we do nothing to make these expenditure less, it is said, consciously go to deficit or blind ourselves to do what is written in it - but this is not ten steps to reduce Slovenia's credit rating. That is to say, we accept a budget rebalancing which will not have these revenues as foreseen by the rebalancing, we know this now because they served us in the middle with the latest analyses; we do nothing on the expenditure side; even the Slovenian People's Party's Amendment, which was actually the only right one in the given situation, is that it has only reduced spending and has not dedicated this money to others who are and who would increase spending on this account. So the rebalancing is a much longer step towards lowering the credit rating than this proposal and this law in order to return his money to the economy earlier. I will be constantly, although I am boring myself, stressing the reasons, not least, why this has not been done in some way before. I am not saying that this law or this solution was not, for example, important before and necessary for the economy before, but it was a priority on the scale of importance in a lower place than it is now, because two years ago companies did not face such high liquidity problems. The winnings were short-term credits, those you worked in banks, you know what favourable credit conditions were a year and a half ago, bankers were jumping for companies and offering them cheap money. Loans went to huge heights, and that was cut at the moment. The financial and economic crisis has made the money market worse at the moment, and in such situations it is necessary to cut down on the measures available to ensure otherwise liquidity or to cut off this illiquid financial market. And that's the idea. By the way, if all the aircraft was mine, which was not in charge of proposing such laws in the previous term, because I was an economic minister, and the area of taxes belonged to the Ministry of Finance, all flew here to me, but anyway, "mea culpa", as far as that is concerned, but I ask why not any SD and LDS finance minister who ruled Slovenia, except for the last term, had previously proposed three mandates. And to tell us something is rhetorical. Why hasn't someone done this before, because there have been periods of economic growth. If I conclude, I am sure that, also because of the time-consuming action, perhaps even the time-consuming adoption of this measure or similar measures, the situation is the same as it is. And that they were in recession not only because of global and European circumstances, but also because of such politicisations, such proposals as we are witnessing to them today, if this is one way or another. This is also observed by other Members, someone said, let us forget that this is the opposition's proposal. Willie Rezman even said it correctly, this is a proposal from the economy. Let us take it as an economic proposal and decide on it as an economic proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has also been reported, and there is no time for SDS. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u88	Hello again! Today's debate really limits to moments on the password "it's not true, it is". I really admire people who somehow forget their past jobs. Today, when I read and hear about some business decisions from the past - and as has been said, about lending - I am reading about lending not only to banks, about lending, as my colleague said before me, also going to higher levels. Some of the debaters who know the economy very closely, each in their own way, today have spoken a few words in fairy tale style. Those of us who have ever read or told stories to children know how it goes: "Once upon a time, they were very successful..." And as one of my colleagues said, yesterday, the situation became different. Today's forecast for 2009 is minus 4%. No wonder! I am sure that it was not meant to be the sole responsibility of the current government for these indications for 2009 alone and in particular the current government. I believe it wasn't meant to be. Today was a speech on the ideology of the Group of Social Democrats, in which I am also on my own, and on the Committees' modified views. No amendment adopted on the basis of changed circumstances, including decisions to shorten the payment deadlines for value added tax to 21 days, but with effect from 1 January, no objection shall be expressed. The economy expects action from us. Measures that will mean a further development for businesses and their employees, as far as the situation permits. And what is most important to people today: to keep a job or, as we say, to have a job, so that we can survive our family and ourselves. One of the economists who employs over 300 people, mostly women in the textile industry, told me yesterday that in Slovenia it would be best to write at the door of our stores: "We are Chinese," because in our stores we can buy garlic from China, as if we ourselves did not know how to plant garlic. In the textile industry, however, we have the most Chinese goods on our shelves. This commodity is the cheapest, even though it is of poor quality, if not almost doubtful or controversial. When it comes to Chinese wealth and the work of the current government, I am sure that the current government is not responsible for this issue. We are aware, however, that the current government will have to accept the balance sheet, because it is nothing surprising and nothing bad if this is to be predicted. I would be very happy if the forecast of possible measures for the future were already made last year, even though already foreseen by those who have been responsible in the past. Therefore, the current government will have to adopt a third package of anti-crisis measures. The amendment of the value added tax law is necessary at two points. Therefore, the deadlines for VAT refund to 21 days and beginning on 1 January 2010 are reduced. One of the thoughts that economists have problems because municipalities, even mayors, delay paying their obligations for one year, surprises me because I didn't know anything about it at all. However, let me conclude with one extremely simple thought. I think each of the simple people will agree with me. I'm home alone in the village, in the hills under the foot of the Gorjans, where we are home simple people, far away from the sea. So I'd like to say the following. Unfortunately, we're here today, not sitting 90, but much less, but in the end, I would say, "I'm closer to the fact that, without being on a boat or a boat together, I'm closer to saying that we're all on the same wagon." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the debate between Members and Members. Does the government want it? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, as a motioner. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u90	I am very glad that there is also knowledge in the coalition that there are specific solutions to be found, but not here to read to us levite and general floscules. The economy needs concrete measures. This is understood by the economic operator. The economic operator does not understand the politics that comes before him and says, "You know, you, we will help you, we are aware of the problems you are in. We are determined to take a stand against you. We will do everything to drain honey and milk in Slovenia. You know, in such words, an economic operator can be wiped out under something. An economic operator needs a concrete measure such as that on the table today. That's what he needs! He needs a message about what kind of credit he can get, whether it's convenient or not convenient or similar. By the way, the government has not yet provided any solution to help businesses to borrow loans, short-term loans that would already be valid, which would be useful today. I'm talking to economic operators, and they're talking to me, too, because their other doors are probably closed or their phones are ringing in the middle of nowhere, and they're turning to me. I talk to everyone and tell them what I know because I don't know what the government has or if it has. But a lot of economic operators turned to the SID bank. They have been sent to commercial banks, and these require enormous sums of loan insurance, which means that interest on short-term loans is expensive for good companies not to come out with them, over 10%, 12%. How can an economic operator who works with a normal margin, because it is faced with international competition, hire such loans because all living risks hang on this credit. Even if he has a business, even if he has contracts, it doesn't mean anything. He has to protect and the insurance costs and costs. And these measures are not and are not; measures to enable the economy to be in debt, not least for the current business. We have now passed a law on the guarantee scheme, we have not yet seen the regulation, I hope that the government will keep its word and come with it to Parliament before it goes to the government, which will only talk about loans for new development projects, etc. However, a company has a busy business, it has invested through some kind of investment, and now, of course, it wants to breathe, but it cannot because its credit conditions have deteriorated overnight and its access to finance is more difficult. And such companies, among other things - because I said that this law is only one part of these measures - this law offers, inter alia, a partial solution to such situations. Today or even today, we will make certain proposals for references to the extraordinary meetings of the competent committees, working bodies, parliaments, to do more to benefit the economy of this country, not to read here, but to impose some general problems. I agree that the country on the one hand needs structural change, but it also needs short-term action and is one of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have concluded by discussing the proposal for a law in its entirety. I can probably say that we have also discussed the proposed amendment to Article 2 in full over this period. Nevertheless, I formally ask, does anyone else wish to discuss Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendment, which, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda and at the latest at 17.25. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - First of all, a proposal for a law supplementing the Insurance Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 34 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Bojan Kontic requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the bill-maker, mag. Andre Visiak, for further explanation of the law. Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A mutual health insurance company has been established to transfer to it the entire insurance portfolio of voluntary health insurance for payments. Today, the Mutual, that is, out of over 900 thousand insured persons, and so do so many members of the Mutual Assembly who exercise their rights in the congregation. There is also a basic problem and a source of problems. Are insurers really exercising their rights and interests in the congregation? The position of the motioners of this law is that they do not. In fact, it is a matter of deciding members at the Mutual Assembly in connection with the decision-making of their respective members. The insured person may grant the decision-making authority at the Assembly only for the incoming assembly and with instructions on how to vote. However, if the insured person issues a waiver, and there is a problem, the authorising officer shall vote on his own discretion and without restriction. There is no procedure for the organised collection of powers. The provisions of the ZZD stipulating that each shareholder should be given access to data, such as the owners of the company and so on, and not applicable to the company or to each other. Thus, at each assembly, those who are most capable of collecting powers may exercise their interests, namely, a handful of directors of regional business units The mutuals who are most interested in enforcing this approach and principle. With the majority that they may actually have, the experience of past congregations shows that they can even call off and replace the Governing Council. And the list of those present in one of the congregations showed, for example, that 76% of the votes were in the hands of the top 10. Thus, 900,000 insurers and insurers are placed in the capable hands of ten officials, who may have unfettered and possibly sometimes controversially voted out in these congregations. The aim of the law is, therefore, to address the issue of the decision-making of members in the congregations of the Mutual or Decision-making Committees in such a way as to ensure that the interests and rights of each other are fully represented. The proposal for a law governs the collection of powers for the Mutual Assembly, by clearly demonstrating from the mandate the will of the authorising officer or of the one who issued that power in relation to the decisions to be taken at that assembly. Furthermore, the proposal also prohibits the collection of powers to the management, employees of the Mutual Insurance Office and their immediate family members, and also regulates the Assembly's reference to the mutual insurance undertaking. So, the basic intention is to make, for the first time, a little more order in representing members at the assembly itself and to prevent anomalies or the possibility of abuse of this imperfect way and a poor way of collecting the powers of members. In the first reading, the law is in such a text as it is. The next procedure opens the way for us to upgrade solutions through the second and third readings, even if only in this high assembly is the need to recognise the need for the current system to be weak and that it needs to be rectified.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word is from a representative of the Magi Government. Helena Kamnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to briefly present the Government's opinion on the proposed law. The Government assesses that it was the intention of the applicant to regulate certain specificities in the collection of powers that would apply only to mutual health insurance or insurance. It therefore considers that these specifications should be regulated in a specific law, such as the Law on the Conditions for the Status Transformation of the Mutual Health Insurance Company, which was based on the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. The Government’s view is that the regulatory regulation of the specific characteristics of a particular company, in this case the Mutual, does not fall within the content of the Insurance Act, which is a general and systemic law governing both the functioning of insurance undertakings which have the status form of a share company and insurance undertakings which have the status forms of a mutual insurance company. The proposed arrangements for the collection and content of powers are not appropriate and constitute an intervention in the autonomy of insurance undertakings as companies. For example, it is not clear what the specific risks or specificities of the administration, the supervisory board, employees or its immediate family members in the mutual insurance company would be, which would have such a direct impact on the functioning of the mutual insurance company, as opposed to administrations, supervisory boards and employees in companies and their potential to influence other shareholders or associates. The regulation of minority rights of members of the mutual insurance company, as contained in the proposal for a law, is inconsistent with the regulation of minority rights in the company law, since it places mutual insurance companies in a very uneven position compared to other economic operators on the market. The adoption of the proposed regulation could have a negative impact on the company's business stability. On the basis of that proposal, the Government does not support the law. This position is fully supported by both the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the competent supervisory officer of the insurance sector in Slovenia and the Slovenian Insurance Association. The Ministry of Health is already preparing a new law on health care and health insurance, which will also re-organise the area of voluntary health insurance. And the government estimates that in this legislation it is possible to fully follow the purpose of the law before us. On the basis of the above, we propose that Members take the decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Villa Trophynik will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. The issue that touches the proposed law is present, and we have even considered or even prepared a similar law in our parliamentary group. Despite the fact that we have been overtaken by the applicants, we believe that this issue needs to be addressed as soon as possible. And for this reason, we generally support the intentions of the law, which does not mean that we fully agree with the law, but we do not think that it is possible, for some prestigious reasons, to refuse to solve the problem. Therefore, we are prepared to continue the procedure, if it comes to it, by means of appropriate amendments, to help improve or arrange the law to be as quality as possible. The initiator or the drafter of the law has said some of the essential problems that need to be solved, so he would not repeat these things because we are thinking similarly, regardless of whether we have the same answers to solve this problem. However, I would like to highlight the following information. Indeed, the mutual insurance company was in some way a reason to think about the changes, but it is important to be aware, given the Government's very well-represented position, that it is also generally a problem of a number of similar insurance companies that could arise for this area. And of course, if, in an illustration of 900 or 900 members of the current congregation, one insurance company acting on the principle of reciprocity comes to the congregation or participates through powers of about 2%, and that the powers are generally given by people or authorities who do not necessarily act or are highly likely to act even in conflict with the interests of membership, we consider that there is an urgent need for certain protective provisions or measures in this area to avoid abuse or decision-making in the congregation in contravention of the interests of the insurers or members of the Mutual. This is a specific issue and because of the specific situation it is not possible to generalise it with general provisions relating to similar entities in this field. Let me briefly say, we will support the decision to proceed with the procedure, but of course we expect that if this decision is adopted, there will be substantial improvements in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Our position will also be brief and relatively clear. He's going to take it down to three points. First time. That change is necessary and that we support the intention of the proposers in this respect. Another time. We would like to point out that this does not mean full agreement with what the applicant has written and proposed for consideration, and that it also means listening to arguments, otherwise rejected, by the Government. Third time. It is important, and this seems to us, from everything - not on the substantive side, but on the procedural side - it is very important for us in Parliament to succeed the parliamentary group, including the coalition group, to agree, to support, at times, the fundamental principle proposed, direction, content and not subject to the executive branch of power. That is why we will also support this proposal or proposal for further consideration and that further consideration of what can be improved in this bill will also be improved.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Srečko Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Insurance Act should have made such a change a long time ago. It's actually some kind of security guard, but of course - better now than never. We would like to stress, however, that as soon as we have everything stolen, what has been stolen, we accept some sort of insurance that is self - imposed, which prohibits voting for participation in the congregation of leaders and relatives. On the other hand, we can read in the newspaper that Montenegrin meetings of February, supervisors in the insurance company are paid in cash - Finances, for example. 25th this month, our parliamentary group, or Mr. Zmigo Jelinčič, addressed to the Government the question of how it is possible that we can actually pay such meetings beyond the control councils, of course, which are not taxed either. Because we know that they are paid in Montenegro, Serbia, in short, wherever the insurance company has its own exposures or its own representations, and this is paid in cash at home. When we talk about how we sold these insurance companies, we need to think back a little bit. At that time, we sold insurance companies by applying as buyers and making a guarantee of fairly unbought shares on banks without a personal guarantee, and today they are essentially the majority owners of these insurance companies. To talk about allowing individuals to make a destiny for the majority is a fact, and we consciously made this hole in the marriage that we are now patching up, but that is irrelevant, because everything is already alienated. "Acception" was done to the end. I think that the Government's transfer is too much to delay for some future period, this must be done now, if we can save another euro, it will be welcome for those who have no impact on the work of insurance companies, but it will somehow make it difficult for all these gentlemen who know too much manipulation and corruption and customerism, which is possible on a legal basis. And that's what they're doing, everywhere you turn these days, it's in full swing. We will support this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the Proposal for a Law on the Complementation of the Insurance Act, which is regulated by insurance undertakings, including insurance undertakings which have a status form d.d., as well as insurance undertakings which have a status form of mutual insurance company. This law therefore contains general provisions applicable to all insurance undertakings. Why am I stressing this? Since it is based on the explanation given by the proposaler to supplement the Insurance Act, it is his intention to settle certain issues for a specific company, namely the Mutual Health Insurance Company, the VVZ Ljubljana, established on the basis of the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act 1998. We are asked whether it is appropriate in the Insurance Act to regulate matters relating to a specific legal person, or whether such matters could be better regulated in a specific law. If we look at the content of the law, we can say that we certainly agree that the arrangement of the Ombudsman in the case of a congregation organised as a congregation of members is totally inappropriate in Article 54. In general, if this provision can be misused in such a way that powers are chosen in a way that, under the terms of reference, "in their own hands", they are accumulated by the directors of regional business units, without a time limit and without any substantive guidance to decide on the specific issues decided by the Assembly. In the absence of formal arrangements for the organisation of the collection of powers, at all events. We find it particularly controversial because, in fact, the same persons decide in the role of owners, the assembly, and in the role of administration, i.e. directors. These are applications which, due to conflicts of interest under the general provisions of the Company Act, should be separate. On the other hand, the proposed law in Article 2 governs the reference of the Assembly in contravention of the general provision of Article 54, paragraph 1, which provides for a reasonable application of the provisions of the Company Act. We cannot get rid of the feeling that the proposed solution is specifically intended for the Mutual Health Insurance Company Ljubljana, which in our opinion is not part of the system law. However, the third argument that supports our decision to support or not support this law is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Company Act, which the Government has tabled in the legislative procedure on 20 March this year. The main solutions to this law are infringing on the provisions of the Law on Economic Companies governing the Communities of Economic Companies. Thus, provisions generally governing the Assembly’s reference, the content and publication of the Assembly, the references and participation, the provision of information, the addition of the agenda, communications to shareholders and members of the Supervisory Board and so on are being amended. The provisions governing the so-called voting under the shareholder's mandate shall also be amended. Here, in our view, the proposed solutions solve the problem much better than the law in question today. The proposal for this law therefore contains a detailed regulation of the issues that are trying to deal with the law that is now before us. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, this bill will not be supported as a suitable basis for further consideration. Most of the arguments were already listed. However, because we agree with the content of the solutions proposed, at this point let me also point out our continued action or expectation. In the SLS Group, we propose that the Government, immediately after the adoption of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Economic Companies, which was introduced into the legislative procedure on 20 March, prepare a systematic solution to the regulation of the rules of the Assembly, the reference, the decision and so on, which will summarise or refer to solutions in the company law. We believe that the regulation relating to the issue of powers in the company law is fully appropriate and that it is also transposed into the provisions of the insurance law governing mutual insurance companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Anton Anderlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u104	Respectable. The need to regulate this issue, which is supposed to be regulated by the proposal for a law amending the Insurance Act, appeared a long time ago. This problem, however, came to light when we considered the law we adopted in the National Assembly less than a month ago. It is clear that it has become clear that it is necessary to address the issues of the duration of the powers given by the insurers to those responsible for the meetings of the assemblies, and therefore this issue needs to be settled, the duration of the period should be limited and I believe that we will do so in the course of the procedure. The level of the limit required for the Assembly meeting to be convened should also be regulated. Experience has so far shown that the limit is too low. It is also necessary to regulate or identify the question of what powers the Minister of Health should have, in our opinion, to remove or withdraw from this obligation, since in the case of mutual insurance companies it is likely that they could then go to another area and should be listed in the law of all ministries, all ministers/ministerials, which should also regulate it. Thus, our belief that the subject governed by this law is necessary to regulate and we will support the law at first reading, counting that we will jointly formulate amendments that will address this issue even more broadly, not just for the issue of the insurance company Mutual. This is what we owe, after all, because 900 000 insurers expect transparent decision-making, expect good governance and, of course, one of the things that we will also deal with in this work is, of course, the disclosure of the conflict of interest of those who will collect these powers if they are to be eliminated. As it is said, at the parliamentary club, we will be ambitious to make the law substantially rectified in the second reading, to change, to support a proposal for a decision that says that the law is a suitable basis for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Dr Luka Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u106	Thank you. In the debate on the amendment of the Insurance Act, many of us have found that, in addition to the issue of the allocation of mutual insurance capital, the issue of the appointment of members' assemblies, the acquisition of powers and the decision-making method is also an issue. It was found that the provisions should be amended and that more transparency should be ensured. We have assessed the permanent powers as inadequate and therefore the need to amend the law. In doing so, I would like to thank the proposer for drawing up the proposal before us today, and I am sure he will not mind because of the concrete solutions outlined in the proposal, however, we have quite a few concerns. The main purpose must be to ensure greater transparency, to collect powers of reference to the Assembly, but not at the expense of the company's ongoing and effective functioning. We must not forget that a mutual insurance company, an insurance undertaking or a mutual insurance company is a private undertaking owned by its members and members and that it is not a public institution, as could be seen in certain provisions of the bill. Following this proposal, for example, even the intervention of the Minister of Health, which has raised a number of brows of lawyers and the professional public, is envisaged when the Assembly is convened and carried out. At the same time, we do not think that the law, as proposed, is appropriate, since, as the Government claims, it clearly regulates the status of only one particular company, namely mutual health insurance companies. A proposal to order any mutual insurance company to re-establish powers for each assembly would put such a type of economic initiative in a highly unequal position compared to other types, such as equity companies. We believe that it is appropriate to limit the validity of powers to a reasonable level, which will not entail unnecessary costs, but will nevertheless increase the level of transparency. In addition, we believe that the provision that makes it impossible for the 4000 members and members of the mutual insurance company to call the assembly on a closed agenda is impractical and would only endanger the current functioning of an undertaking that may be dealing not with good business at any level at any given time, but with the convening of an assembly. Even more surprising is the proposal, as it has already been said, that the cancellation of such a meeting could be allowed by the Minister of Health, regardless of the fact that it is not a public institution and the law does not only govern the mutual health insurance company, but all mutual insurance companies. Such a provision is therefore at the threshold of constitutionality, since there is no public interest to justify it in the draft law. Regardless of the many shortcomings of the bill's proposal, we believe that it can be complemented in the second reading. We have therefore decided that in the first reading of the law we do not oppose, especially because we want to break with the practice of the previous right-centre coalition, which rejected the laws only because they did not like the proposer and immediately proposed its version. On the contrary, today's support for the law at first reading is strong evidence that we Social Democrats are willing to cooperate and that we do not know the division into "yours and ours" but only on good proposals and on bad proposals. And since we believe that, despite the many shortcomings that we want to correct in the second reading, this proposal is good, we will not oppose it at first reading. It is a step in favour of cooperation and constructive atmosphere in the National Assembly, and we expect the opposition to appreciate this, and that it will not forget this as soon as the vote on this point is concluded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Andrej Vizjak has the floor to speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Vice President. We will support the draft law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We will also support all proposals that will go in the direction of improving the text below. But I don't share my views with those who say it's just some symbolic gesture, if you support good suggestions and don't look at the color or the client they come from. In fact, we had this proposal a little while ago, and it was a different conclusion. That this proposal is also somewhat challenging, let us say, in a way, controversial, also shows the extremely large activity of lobbyists who have recently emerged and persuaded the parliamentary groups to maintain their practice. Moreover, there has also been a call by the Congregation of the Mutual to do something just before the new solutions. So it is right to look mainly at this proposal through the interests of the members, i.e. the mutual insurers, because it is right for them to make a transparent and simple decision on their rights and the way in which this insurance undertaking operates in the future. And only this is the ambition of this law. So the ambition is that decision-making approaches members and prevents the abuses that practice has now flooded on a daily basis and are more than obvious. Once again, the fact that 10 regional directors can gather 76% of voting rights in one assembly means that these decisions of the Assembly will be very friendly to the leadership and to these regional directors. It is difficult for me to think that decisions are friendly to leadership, that they are in fact even and equivalent for all, including for those insured who yearn for this insurance company to upgrade its competitiveness, to reach out to certain insurance products, which are new, which are the result of changes in time, the result of ageing of the population and therefore go to the benefit of these members. And here we are with those problems that we have dealt with at one of the previous meetings, when we have also had this law, when we have had a lot of controversy about where the profits of insurance companies are, and when we have talked about how it is possible to redistribute profits into the development of new products, not to finance these products. Dear Anderlich, I will shorten, but according to my assessment, measure. I would be very happy if you would leave me this pleasant duty! Thus, the purpose of the law is to properly regulate the decision-making of the members of the assemblies and, last but not least, the possibility of the Assembly being convened by the members of this insurance undertaking. I have already heard some suggestions on how it is possible to upgrade, improve this text, everyone is very welcome, and they are likely to upgrade some mission and a positive message and the added value of this proposal. I will therefore be very pleased if this law supports as many groups as possible in addition to the SDS, because this will be a good basis for further consideration of this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. I'll only call those who are in the hall. [[...]] Mr. Rogers. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. I would not like to stress the support expressed for this law, but I would like to point out perhaps another aspect of the topic that has not emerged in the current presentation of opinions. In my opinion, it seems a little inappropriate to relativise provisions that clearly refer to the only mutual insurance company in our country, arguing that, what if there are other provisions. Realistically and honestly, it is difficult to expect any other mutual insurance company to be organized in due course, at least in the light of the experience we have with this mutual insurance company. In particular, given the fact that the mutual insurance company is not a classic insurance undertaking whose objective would be to create profits, and therefore the interest in setting up any mutual insurance undertakings is small. Because the desire for profit is still a stronger incentive for the establishment of various companies or other entities, such as solidarity for the establishment of, say, mutual insurance companies. This doesn't even seem wrong to me that things are being handled the way they are proposed here. For me, any mutual insurance company is by no means a private company. While many might wish that a mutual insurance company should follow certain points of the company law, particularly those which allow such and other privatisation and payment of profits and so on. But the mutual insurance company, in my opinion, is more like an economic society than a public institution, as it was insinuated here, but perhaps a society. We are all members of each other's owners at the same time as, say, all members of the company own all the property that a fire company has, or whatever else. In short, they're together in good and bad. As the purpose of society is not to create profits, but I do not know, cultural activity, fire safety, what I know, hunting activity and so on, as well as in the mutual insurance company, it is considered that the health of its members is a fundamental objective and that it is virtually unable to do the surplus, except for the purpose of restoring this surplus to the basic activity, in short ensuring the health safety of its members. I do not agree that the possibility of any other reference to the Assembly, but only by the administration, would so greatly undermine the functioning of the mutual administration, which is supposed to work so hard for the positive functioning of such an insurance undertaking. We all remember from a year ago, or a little longer ago, that the management was primarily dealing with how to own this insurance company, and then I had no feeling that I was dealing with the positive business of the insurance company itself. In short, if the administration at the time had had the time to devote so much time to the planned property, which had been prevented by God, then I think that even from time to time any congregation call on our part, the insurers should not be burdened so much that the entire activity of mutual suffering would result. So I place great hopes in the next reading of this law, in the improvements that will be followed by the total well-being of almost millions of insurers of this insurance company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Likar has the floor. Excuse me, Mr. Chappich. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Lycar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The mutual health insurance undertaking to which the proposal to supplement the law relates was established by legal separation of voluntary health insurance from compulsory health insurance within the framework of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. It is a specialised mutual insurance company which is intended to be highly non-profit-oriented and exclusively owned by members or insurers. Due to numerous memberships, about 900,000 of us are said to be the mutual largest provider of voluntary health insurance in Slovenia. We would like to see the proposal of the Complementary Act of the Insurance Act as far as possible the mutual interests and rights of the insured are realized. In addition to Article 53 of the Law, the collection of powers for the Mutual Insurance Assembly shall be governed by the provisions of Article 53 of the Law, so that the powers of an individual with regard to decisions to be decided at a particular assembly shall be clearly demonstrated. It is unacceptable for an individual to decide, on behalf of the members of the congregation, on the basis of an indefinite period of time, on the basis of their knowledge, as far as it is possible to do so. The amendment would also prevent the collection of powers to the management of the insurance undertaking, the employees of the company and their immediate family members, thereby preventing them from obtaining more powers on the basis of access to the data made available to them by their workplace. Now this is possible, and it also happens that several district directors have more than half of the votes of the insurance company, which has over 900,000 members, in the hands of each other. I believe that the Members will support the solutions in the first reading, upgrade them in the second reading, eliminate these anomalies and ensure that the interests of the insured are realized as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Perne has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Grill, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Notwithstanding the fact that this law, which has been tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, is relatively short, I am of the opinion that the content of this substance is particularly important for our insurers. Each other is an insurance undertaking, the purpose of which is to provide health insurance to a large number of insured persons, since over 900 000 insured persons are associated in this Mutual Health Insurance. Therefore, it is also right that so many people can also have a transparent and, above all, accessible means of co-decision in the management of this insurance undertaking as well as in decisions related to its further development. In the past or past years, we have also witnessed attempts at various transformations. At that time, much effort had to be made not to do so, for in any case it would be in the best interest of our insurers. We, as the National Assembly or the State, must under no circumstances allow this to happen. Therefore, the existing legal solutions, where it has already been mentioned, are left to decide on all the most important matters of a handful of people, can be only 10 of them, with the help of the powers they have acquired by their insurers, without knowing what powers they have given, having the opportunity to make decisions in essence unlimited or pending withdrawal, and of the most important decisions. It is therefore appropriate to try to arrange, amend, give the insurance undertaking the opportunity to make decisions that are important to the insured to enable them to express their will at that time and also to choose their own. It is also important that this solution, which is now proposed, makes it impossible for these decision-making bodies or authorities to propose relatives of all those who have the ability to manage the insurance undertaking, and thus, of course, prevent a number of possible abuses. Therefore, I think that the current solution or proposal of this law is good enough that even if the National Assembly in such a form were to confirm it, this would be a very great progress in the sense that this insurance company is indeed mutual in the future, literally. I am therefore surprised that the Government itself does not support this proposal to assess that this law is not suitable for general or further consideration. Some Members of the debate today also expressed their support for this law, of course, expecting some solutions to be improved through the debate. For this reason, I also assess that this law is suitable for further consideration and will also support it. I expect that today there will be sufficient consensus and also recognition that this law does not conflict with the objective of having a good health insurance company to support it and that in further procedures, if it is found, we will reshape the content with the appropriate amendments and really get to such a law as I have already mentioned, which will be of particular benefit to the insured and the insured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. I must say that I am adhering to the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's candidates. Surely a consideration of the insurance company, which brings together the most Slovenes, is needed. Especially in these times that come when uncertainty is great. There's a lot of smoke in here. One thing is for sure that the principle of reciprocity, which is supposed to be'me for you, you for me', is that of course we do not paraphrase it in practice, as has often happened'me for you and him for ourselves'. And it is certainly this thought that we will be more involved in the congregation by means of a larger quorum, certainly positive and I support it. Of course, there is a greater dilemma, but we will continue to discuss what to do and how to direct this profit or the surplus of funds so that the ransom will be higher for those who pay the premiums monthly. One option is for sure also that this profit is reinvested and thus increases the basic profit and the premium of those we pay will be lower. Or a second thought about what is created more than is used to lower the premium. I think it is right that we leave the law to a follow-up procedure and improve it on the basis of a quality and reasoned debate. Above all, this is the time and opportunity for all those who are small in Slovenia, small shareholders or insurers, in addition to their duty to pay the premium, to be aware of the right to make decisions at the assembly, to decide either on our own or through their responsibilities. This second right, however, is all too often forgotten, and this moment is the change in insurance legislation, the debate on the Mutual Guarantee of the possibility and the opportunity to upgrade and improve our conduct in terms of the larger ransom for the family budget. That is why I support and support the spirit of the newly introduced law as a Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u118	Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is certainly necessary to ask the question of whose interest the Mutual Insurance Company should act or should work. We probably all agree that we should act in the interests of the insured. As a result of them it is established, as a result of which 900 000 entrusted this Mutual Insurance with their voluntary insurance, it should also operate in a management sense. For this reason, I must say that I am personally surprised by the position of the Government, which speaks of the fact that this area cannot be regulated in this law, but that it is a matter of general law. I think that the law is appropriate, right, it governs the area of all mutual insurance companies, but it certainly is the most important Mutual since there are 900 thousand insurance companies in it. And if we look into the past, we can ask ourselves whether this Mutual Insurance Company has fulfilled our expectations in recent years, or whether it has fulfilled the expectations of all those large 900 thousand insurers and insurers. Remember, it is not long before, because of this strange form of governance, there was much time and energy under the leadership of the former Director devoted to whether to simplify, to the savage advantage or not, and to the efforts of the former Minister, who in all ways prevented this intention. I think that this change is a step towards not going to happen in the future, and a step towards how and how this money contributed by all 900 000 insurers is not going to be managed by one or fourteen people, but actually by those who unite in the Mutual. I firmly believe that if this novel were to be implemented earlier or if we are to implement it now in a relatively short time, that these gains that the Mutual has made in recent years and have not been small, went back in tens of millions of euros, it is possible to return to the insurers in this sense, to reduce waiting times, to facilitate the way to health services, so that some operations will not have to wait two or three years, as an example of orthopedics, so that a number of operations for which they are, the funds are, the devices are, but are not of interest to the Mutual, to do more quickly. I think it's unacceptable for some mutual insurance company to overstate, so this profit is not directed back to the insurance company. It is unacceptable, what has happened in the past, that many hospitals have gone to waste because they have provided services that have been necessary and then the Mutual did not want to pay them because they were not misled in the contracts because some of the regulations were put in place and services were taking place in this framework. All things cannot be planned. Life runs its own way, and I think it's right for insurers to decide on these things, not leadership, not fourteen directors, or thirteen or twelve regional units. And I think it is essential that the remaining funds be allocated back to these insurers in the sense of improving healthcare services, reducing waiting periods, and allowing faster access to services for those most in need. The problem of health care in Slovenia is now not malnutrition in buildings, not so much in instruments, not so much in people. The problem is in the organization, ready to do the most with the available money. And I think that one step in this direction is also the proposal of this novel, which in itself does not bring it, but brings it indirectly. It brings when the decision is actually made to those for which the Mutual has actually been established and when it is prevented from playing a few individuals in this country with the Mutual Insurance Office. For this reason, I hope that this law, not only in this form, will not be adopted today, but also in the future, and I hope that we will not witness again some attempts to distort the legislation proposed by the opposition in the way that we have witnessed it in one of the previous laws - when we propose something that is good, in the interest of the Slovenian economy in that case, in the interest of the insurers, and then in the subsequent legislative stages when the legislative procedure begins, through such or other amendments, the essence of the law is distorted. I sincerely hope that we will not witness this in this case and that the purpose, as proposed, will also be confirmed and adopted in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's nice to say too much talk about this insurance company anyway. And it is true that there are many doubts about governance, control, and decision-making. In the past, some have had a lot of appetites through this insurance company. Most likely because the financial flow is good and the appetites are normal. When we spoke recently and also allowed for the further development of the Mutual, all in the desire and pursuit of great concern for the welfare of the insured, I had doubts about the effectiveness of this work. Look, I imagine it's mutual, which means to contribute to one basket and then from this basket somewhere else also track and offer quality health care to all the insurance companies. They've made a profit. If profit turns out, I'm not exactly agreeing that this money should then be invested in additional products immediately, but I think that it can be relatively cheap insurance itself and, of course, when there is a shortage, it should also be increased as it is mutual. However, mutual leadership must effectively follow this to see where the financial situation is and what needs are and can be well addressed. The basic insurance, however, should be the one that cares and develops products, offers them and then charges them. And in this I also see that the Mutual has to follow this so that these services can also be financed efficiently and well. I am of the opinion that this law must be supported and directed [[...]] [[Cell phone ringing.]] Yeah, I'll turn it off, it'll be different next time, I'm sorry. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Brultz has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, Secretary of State! In the SDS Group, we have tabled an amendment to the proposal for a law supplementing the insurance law. In particular, it is a matter of deciding the members of the Assembly with powers, of voting at the Assembly. So that some individuals may decide on 900 000 votes of insurers on the Mutual Insurance Act, there is no transparency of democratic voting. There is a lack of decision - making system in the congregation that is established by the present law. The Slovenian Democratic Party is proposing an amendment with a view to improving transparency and preventing the manipulation of mutual insurance. We know for ourselves what manipulations and events are being done in health care, dental care, and laboratories. After all, if he works as a civil servant or as a dentist in a state institution, and in the afternoon is actually private, he creates a position for his afternoon earnings. I think we need to stop these things from being permanent or practical. Today, the mutual insurance company has over 900,000 insured persons, including so many members of the congregation. However, it does not work intransparency for a few individuals who decide on all these insurers. The insurance company must remain primarily reciprocal for investors, users, 900 000 and something. I support the proposal for further consideration, with a view to further developing it and making it what all citizens of Slovenia deserve in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Posedel, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. I will be very brief in this debate, only to confirm what my colleague Trofenik said in the presentation of the opinion of the Group. We'll back it up. They are also supported and, above all, because it is the benefit of the insured and that we do not look at the proposer in what we support in the parliamentary group. And this is once again evidence that even if the other party submits a useful proposal, as well as the SDS, we will support such a proposal and therefore we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u126	Thank you very much. In addition to the already presented position of the Group of Members and the fact that certain cynicism by the opposition at the time offered may only be due to the burden, I will only point out that it is likely that the joint drafting of the amendments to this Act in the second reading of a test of the capacity of the National Assembly to find a common constructive solution. I'm counting, I'm truly counting on this wisdom to come from everyone in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you. Mrs. Kamnar on behalf of the Government, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] We have thus concluded the debate of the debaters who have been announced. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I can't see any hands. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the National Assembly, in the context of the half-hour vote, at 2 p.m. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u128	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting devices, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Rights from the Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Please. Mr Tessel has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Members and Members! The SDS Group will vote against this law or supplement, which has already been tabled for a third time, for several reasons. If this law were adopted last year, the matter would still be understandable when it was still a konjunkture, and this year it is a recession and we do not know what it will be like for the other groups that might be more necessary. It is a small group that is not socially threatened, such as vulnerable groups of pensioners living on the verge of survival. Last year they received a supplement, and this year it has not yet been and is not in sight. And we fear that there will be no tides in such an economic situation and there will be even less flow. What happens to pensions is a big question. At that time, it is not appropriate to seek redress for a particular group of people. I therefore appeal that no such law be passed at this time. Secondly, the effect is primarily psychological, not as financial as we have heard, whether it is 300 000 or 30 000 euros per year, although the difference is relatively large, all together is negligible compared to how psychologically effective it can be. Officers who have begun to lift their heads and other groups, this is only the beginning that can make the reptiles even further forward. The SDS Group will therefore vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. Excuse me, abort. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. We will reopen the application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Otherwise, we will not oppose this law, but we will not "for" or "against" because we think that the matter is very selectively intended in one direction. You have a feeling that some people are just looking for spots and they want to somehow get closer to those we don't know exactly where they were. One thing they'd do, the other thing they wouldn't do. And if you think, ladies and gentlemen, that the pensioners will applaud - they won't. Again, it is the privilege of one particular segment within the pensioners. I don't think that's fair, and I think it's kind of inappropriate to increase these supplements at this time, especially since these people were over 1600 last year, and this year they fell to 50, to 50, to 50, as has been said. And the sum, which was around €400,000 last year, has also decreased to about €30,000. One wonders if someone can't count, or if someone is lying or cheating. And this scheming, I think it's too much in the National Assembly. The law went into consideration after a reduced procedure. Laws that regulate people's affairs, which are increasingly on the road, and we don't see these laws here. We do not see laws to regulate social issues and to push lazy people where they need to work, but not to give them social support. We don't see this, because, as it turns out, lazy people are kind of at your heart and you like having one segment that is powered by social transfers. Nor do you change after a fast or short-term working law whereby some are privileged and do not want to retire because they do not need to retire. We're the only country in the world that allows someone to stay on the job even though they should be retired by now. But of course you have to take care of your "aged" personnel, who receive a salary of about three thousand euros, and pensions would have only a thousand euros. That's why I think it's kind of unfair. And if we wanted to regulate some things, we would also regulate others about the status of some people who really did something for Slovenia and who were also forgotten and pushed aside by your President Milan Kučan, such as General Chad, who was willing to do a lot of things and move into territorial defense at the time, Kučan told him to stay on the Reich Command that it would not be bad for Slovenia. But nobody remembers him today.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, we will really support this law because we believe that social rights begin where the rule of law is respected. Respect for the rule of law also means eliminating all discrimination. We will vote in favour because it is not about the exercise of privileges, but it is about the equalisation of citizens and citizens, i.e. the elimination of discriminatory attitudes towards a certain segment of pensioners. We can't see here and we can't share the opinion of those who say it's inappropriate during a conjuction or during a recession. Of course, this has nothing to do with it. We believe that the fight against discrimination is also a step forward in the elimination of social injustices, which we can also look forward to in this difficult stage of social recession. For this reason, our Group of Members will vote unitedly in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Franz Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Our parliamentary group will support this law for a simple reason because it advocates equality before the law and wants to resolve the discriminatory behaviour or discriminatory position of pensioners after military insurers who have been deprived of the right to work on a widow's pension, although most of them live in poverty, as found in statistics in our country. We also think it is inappropriate to talk about everything else as part of this decision, just not about the things we are experiencing today. And that's why we're going to support this marriage because we're not embarrassed and we're not ashamed to do it. But shame can be on those who think that this cannot happen, and in doing so they draw to the plan arguments that do not belong here and not elsewhere. We regret that some are not for this. I must also say that our Group knows that adopting this law is more fair to pensioners than accepting an allowance that, among other things, those with 500 euros, even if they have Mercedes at home, a yacht or something. This law solves the problem of improving the material situation of pensioners in this country, and in fact it has nothing to do with the things that have been discussed here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the bill. The law is based on two foundations of our constitutional arrangement. This is that Slovenia is a legal and social state. Equality before the law is our direction, it would be right if the Members and Members were fully aware of it. In addition to the social state, the fact that the average supplement that can go to these widows is €58, and the price is strictly fixed, so that those who do not have a social position over which anyone could resent it. Thirdly, we believe that it will come to its government in the spring with a proposal to regulate the social situation - all of us, not only pensioners, but also pensioners, and that in this way we will resolve the situation of all those in whom you believe that this law must now be rejected in order to regulate it together then. And lastly, it is very unfair to mention things that actually have nothing to do with the bill. It is necessary to read the explanations under previous laws and to find that, together, over 1,160 military pensioners, who do not have exactly any relationship with a widow's pension, except that approximately 50 widows who would receive that right may be selected from this circle. The number was found by the Government on the basis of data and is also agreed by the ZPIZ, so it is not made up. However, it is not possible to compare this with 1,000 pensioners. And one more thing. It's about the widows. I've talked to many of them. Their men are dead before they can be conquered. And speaking of doing anything bad in Slovenia's independence, it's unfair, but it's insulting to these widows. And they were particularly sensitive when we talked about finally being the same for them as for everyone else. We'll vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Please apply for explanations of vote on your own behalf. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u139	Thank you so much for saying that. I must immediately say in the introduction that I will not support this bill for a simple reason, because this proposed regulation is not appropriate from a legal point of view. The basic rule of pension insurance provides for the pension to be provided by the fund to which the insurers and their employers have paid the contribution. And active military personnel paid contributions to a special military fund in Belgrade. Look, we don't know the numbers, we're hunting between 50 and 1,600. You explained, but I saw it myself. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u140	Comrade Croat, there is no more controversy and dialogue with the other side.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u141	Then please, if you'll calm down the Members, they'll let me say what I mean. We've come to some stage where there's no problem in providing funds, so let it be erased for damages, whether it's military generals or JLA generals who want pensions, widows after officers want an allowance. I feel like we're at the point where some pre-election promises need to be fulfilled at all costs. Look, these ladies were more likely to be before the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has rejected their initiative and now you are changing the law. It's similar to deleted. They were rejected. Why don't we adopt a constitutional law? These would be the same vats for everyone. And so I think this is really about paying some pre-election promises, so I'm going to reject the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was born in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and there are many from here who are also sitting. Some were born in the Federal People’s Republic, etc. In short, Yugoslavia, whatever the case, was our common country, the pension fund of the Yugoslav People's Army, which was our common army as long as it existed and was, was also our common fund. And at the time of independence, Slovenia, of course, committed itself to taking care of the social rights of its citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u144	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u145	Most of the social rights, the pension goes from the pension fund and some directly from the budget, because this is how we committed ourselves to the successful agreements. The error in the law prompted one category to be neglected. This marriage solves it, it fixes it back. I will vote in favour of this law, because I am convinced that if I objected to this law, I would act in the spirit of totalitarianism of the previous century, which, on the basis of race, nationality, religion, would prohibit the love of someone else. By this law, by objecting to such a law as it is laid down, we will, if we vote against it, oppose the profession of a man that someone can love, and we set it decades ago. I can't agree with that, so I'm going to support this marriage. I also hope that those who oppose this law will not be explicitly opposed by the vote. If it can no longer be supported, then at least it should not be stated so directly and on the contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Alexander Ravnikar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u147	Thank you, President. I'll support the marriage. I see it as a part of the realization of those human rights that can be achieved late, but better late than never, at least a little. But I will speak for another reason, because I am tired of these lies, with which some fellow Members do not know by whose order, probably not because they rely on the accompanying material, justifies their vote against. My vote is also due to these lies that are being thrown into the same group here and that are only part of the same strategy with which we have already had an extraordinary session, we have extraordinary meetings of working bodies and we will be "mixing" tomorrow and we will have further work in other bodies. All these things have a joint move. And this is one of these:--a lie, a lie, and another lie.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u148	The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It was said that social injustices were being corrected, that the Republic of Slovenia was a legal and social state and that it was enshrined in the Constitution and that it also contained equality before the law. Then we ask ourselves, what about those 250,000 of our citizens who live on the brink of poverty, what about those almost 80,000 who lost their jobs, what about those students who don't get a scholarship, what about those who can't afford the right and the right treatment. One wonders whether the right to work is also a constitutional right, but some do not. One wonders what this country is now and this government has done to a variety of tycoons that are not persecuted. What did she do with the different directors and the managers who pay off the terrible money and nothing to anyone? It has been said that the nonadmission of this law is offensive. Who's it insulting to? Maybe all those pensioners who were promised 1,000 euros before the elections and received a large number of Members? One wonders what kind of country we live in. In the end, who wonders where hundreds of millions of people have disappeared from the General Sailing? Who wonders where the Primorska Meat Industry disappeared, when Mr. was nice with the heat of some "passed" all together and opened up three companies abroad and put our people on the road? Where is this offensive now, and to whom is this offensive?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u151	Thank you. As has already been said, it is not fair and it is not fair that the law, with all due respect, is a small handful of people particularly exposed in the National Assembly and that it is decided upon. Even less is it disrespectful for a number of other marriages to follow a reduced procedure. It is even less acceptable for me to know that in this proposal, the Law on the Rights of the Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers is not the widows of those who have fallen into a self-conservation war; at least they would have included them, but they are not. As the Victory of the Elinčič Nobles said, because we will not oppose, but so enthusiastic for a handful, for the adoption of a marriage for 50 people, we cannot really be jumping out of joy in the air.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Thirdly, I will support the proposed law because I think it would be a mistake not to realize that the group of citizens of this country is being wronged. They cannot exercise the right that goes to all other widows, i.e. that those who have obtained the right to a pension from their past work may choose to exercise a more favourable pension regime, which also means 15% of the widow's pension after the deceased partner. These widows have been deprived of this right since 2005. And we keep hearing that there are certain privileges. For what privileges? But the point is that we are aware that these widows cannot exercise this right, and we continue to say that we will not do so, and we are knitting together and, as snowballs, we are picking up all sorts of excuses. And we've heard about the MIP, and we've heard about what I don't know about, but this is, once again, for very old citizens of this country who cannot exercise the legal right to choose an option that is more favourable for them. This has nothing to do with the fact that their partners have been doing some of the profession that some now want to display so badly. But what didn't you once say about the dead is all good, and their husbands are dead. Now we can arrange for a hidden and rejected right for a small group of citizens. I hope you will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I reopen applications for explanations of vote on my behalf. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! I will vote against it for two reasons. The first is that the lies that are pronounced in support of the pro are a little too severe. And the second reason is this. Pensions apply under some law on solidarity, solidarity of all those who invest in some fund. That's what it says in the pension fund. And the population we're talking about, they didn't pay for this fund, they paid for another fund. If he was in Belgrade, fine, because it doesn't matter, but he wasn't in the Slovenian fund of the community of pension and disability insurance, so he can't be treated under the same legislation. What are we even talking about? We are talking about those who already have a normal pension like all those 500 or 600,000 Slovenian pensioners. That's 70% of that average. That's what you've got. It's another 15%, but it doesn't have half a million who paid for the Slovenian fund. That's illogical, and that means privilege. Like it or not, it's a privilege, if someone doesn't pay something, they can't get more from this fund. All half a million Slovenian pensioners received less and paid into this fund for 30.40 years. It doesn't make any sense. And the facts are like that. I just can't accept the argument that we can talk to many of these if there are only 50. 50 and not a lot. And such an argument does not hold up, so I am against because it seems irresponsible and unfair to those 500 or 600,000 Slovenian pensioners who will have fewer because they have spent their entire lives in this fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivo Wiggle has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u157	Dear Mr. President. I think I have to tell you why I'm going to vote yes. But I stopped by for something else. I came by because of these young people sitting up here at the gallery who will create a very unusual and, I would say, undesirable opinion on the National Assembly, where obviously even when it comes to the fundamental rights of individuals and the fundamental realization of rights in a normal state of law, we are speaking and arguing here obviously for some ideological and political reasons, which have nothing to do with the subject itself. I regret that, so I'm also appealing to these young people, and maybe there's still some sense in these meatballs, and you haven't noticed it yet. But I will end up supporting every right of a small group, even if it is so small, when it comes to the right that comes from the rule of law and the understanding of the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u159	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, it was very clear how much time these people paid for the fund, including in Slovenian. But it's obviously no longer important than who they are, where they came from and what they're like. In my opinion, this is one of the last episodes of the former joint Yugoslavia, which must be concluded in a humane manner. And that's why we need to get this story off the agenda. I think it's the third time he's on the agenda. I will vote in favour of putting this story under the roof and giving the impression in this House that we are sitting people who care about human rights regardless of who they are, Serbs, Croats, Slovenians, Italians or anyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u161	Thank you, Mr. President. I too will vote in favour for the reasons I have already stated on behalf of the Group of Members. In fact, it is a matter of eliminating discrimination against a smaller social group, which, due to this lack of consistency between the interpretations of the payment of pension liabilities in one fund or in a federal fund, has remained somewhere in this interregime of the expectation of equal rights. This time we have this opportunity, and I will vote in favour because I do not accept blackmail and quote other problems that have nothing to do with this particular issue, not on the issue deleted, or on the other JNA officers. In fact, we are talking about harmonising rights arising from the commitment of the Republic of Slovenia to all its citizens and citizens when independent Slovenia has ensured that it adopts, by the logic of succession, all obligations arising from the pension line and other social rights. I hope that we will not take advantage of this argument to create new divisions in society, let us close these open wounds from our period of legal independence, by legal logic and by the logic of non-discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Very short, very simple. The law regulates the equality of certain people who have not had these equalitys so far. And even if he's only going to settle for one person, this one person deserves equality. That's why I'm going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Pojbich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u165	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! I will not support this marriage for one simple reason. This law, in my opinion, discriminates against the Slovenes and Slovenes, to the Slovenian people. That's why I won't support him. I am convinced that only those who have paid it can benefit from the pension fund. And these are Slovenians and Slovenians. Those who paid in the Belgrade fund could get the 15% widows from that fund. And there's something very important that I think I should stress. When we talk about the Yugoslav army, because it was said to be our common army. Of course, it was only until it attacked the Republic of Slovenia. Since then, the Yugoslav National Army has not been the army of the Republic of Slovenia and of all Slovenes and Slovenes. Not since then. And those who speak that way in this National Assembly, please imagine how you are discussing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u167	Thank you so much for saying that. First, let me say that in the case of this law there is a large majority of these women and men, beware, widows and widows are not only widows, Slovenian and Slovenian nationalities and they are all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. All those who are deceased, according to whom we propose that this law give them the right to 15% of the widow's allowance, were all in the vast majority of Slovenian nationality. And they were all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact that Yugoslav legislation was such that the payment of the contribution to pension insurance for members of the Yugoslav People's Army was otherwise regulated than for all others was a special law which we adopted as an obligation to self-sustain, in fact, stipulated that it was also accepted that there was no injustice on the part of those who were military insurers. That's the first thing to say. Another time. When we talk about these widowers and widows, the vast majority of them are pensioners or all are pensioners under the general law. The only difference is that they get, say, they don't get 70% of the widow's pension. So those who misinterpret the matter first look at what the law says and what the explanation says. These are pensioners by general law and pensioners by general law who are widows or widowers by military insurers. That's why I think you have some vague notions first, and secondly, you hate other people in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have already indicated in the opinion of the Group the reasons why I will also support this law. I must say that I also pointed out the problem of some other categories on my questions yesterday. And I am pleased that the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs has assured me that, when considering some changes in the pension law, he will think and think about the lowest rural pensions that today receive 200 or 185, 187 euros a month. That's what I think is necessary. I agree with those who say that all categories of people in Slovenia should be considered. I repeat, I will uphold this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I'm asking you again. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u171	Thank you very much for taking the floor. I will vote in favour because only the rule of law is the rule of law. What's this all about? Even if the injustice was caused by one person in this country, it must certainly be corrected. And if the law is to be supplemented or amended, it is also necessary to do so. Otherwise, it is time to realize that the pension does not depend on the status or any political definition, only on how much you have paid and contributed to the pension scheme. Even if the case of a serial killer had been found, his conviction of the valuable sins of his pension could not be taken away. This is a right arising from payments, not from status or political definition, as some would like. I support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u173	Thank you very much. In principle, I have no problem with the elimination of certain injustices, irregularities, shortcomings in legislation. This is in every country, as well as in Slovenia, quite a bit. Decades ago, people lost their jobs, bankruptcys, injustices, and bailouts from the trust fund. So it's a terrible injustice. Have we fixed these people's wrongs? A whole bunch of young people are waiting on the job market, not getting their first job, lowering scholarships, and could list the injustices that we have hugely in this country. Of course, all these injustices with one budget cannot be resolved, so it is very important what priority it is for the Government or coalition to address these injustices. I would first begin with the worst and most serious injustices that have hit people the most, and with the inconsistencies and indecisions that are tanning those young, promising people who are just going to create and do something. That's where I'd start fixing injustices. For example, to increase the scholarship fund in order to equalise education opportunities for all people in Slovenia and could also be listed. I am not saying that this structure, which you have addressed, may not require a certain solution, but certainly not with the priority that you have drawn or set. For this reason, I believe that in these circumstances it would be easier to do anything before to deal with military pensions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u175	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will not support this law in any way either, for it seems unacceptable to me that we are also burdening the pension allowance with these pension supplements for those who did not pay the pension allowance. The cashier's office is already going through all the stitches. It is burdened with a number of expenses to be paid from this cash register for different categories of people. This is also a key reason why we now have such difficulties in this cash register that we provide our pensioners with regular pensions already in place. For this category of people who have always been privileged in the past, now try again some privileges, let it be so small, to claim from the pension fund, which I find unacceptable. The men of these widows were then paid to a cashier's office in Belgrade, so it would be appropriate to pay for possible loans, if any, now from the Belgrade treasury. I would therefore suggest that solutions are sought at the international level here, and that those who go to Belgrade promise compensation for the erased in Slovenia to talk there in a way that will then pay these additional pensions for those citizens in Slovenia who are disadvantaged. That is why I think that we must look in this direction, not in the way of this proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u177	Dear Mr. President. Of course I'll give my vote for this marriage. Because it is enough to violate fundamental human rights and to prevent us from having too little money in the state treasury. Let's be concrete! This cost will not go away from the pension at all, but from the state treasury. That's a first. 500, 500, 550. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u178	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u179	Women or gentlemen, anyone, widows and widowers, will receive about 50 euros a month. [[...]] That's 2,500 euros. Listen, don't make fun of me! That's less than our wages. And that's a first. He's paying one person between us, of course, so we can understand each other. And first of all, there's something else you need to know. I have a case of one beneficiary or beneficiary. The lady is a widow by construction engineer. In the previous country, the military hired nurses, doctors, construction engineers, and more. They were both Slovenians. The lady's still alive. And now, ladies - our citizens, the Slovenes - we will not allow her to be entitled to the same things as people throughout the country. That's why I'm going to vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u180	I'm asking you again. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. I will not use the time to explain my voice to mention to whom everything in this country is bad today because there are too many of these. All I'm saying is that I'm going to vote for the law because it doesn't privilege anyone, but it just makes it equal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u183	I firmly believe that the challenges facing Slovenian society are so great that it would be appropriate to end the divisions that mark the time of 25 years ago. I don't understand why it takes so much hatred on some subjects that divide us too long and that have no basis at all. Being a Democrat always means respecting someone else's opinion, because that's what some of you have written down on behalf of your client. Since I believe that terror over human rights must be ended and equality before the law enforced, I will vote in favour of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The word is Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u185	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I didn't mean to answer that explanation myself, but somehow a person gets the feeling and is slowly ashamed of himself because he is silent. I don't want to be silent, I want to say why I am voting for this law. I will vote for this law because I too have enough of this behavior, exclusive, vindictive, demeaning, if you want, racist towards all those who are supposed to be different, and they are not at all different - this is still the greatest regret in this matter. It is for all our citizens, or citizens, who have been deprived of the possibility, when amending the relevant legislation, of being able to obtain and enforce the difference between a minimum pension and a minimum pension. And I do not want to remain silent, I want to say that I am deeply respecting the principle of the social and legal state and, of course, deeply respect the principle of equality before the law. Without all this there is no rule of law, without all this there is no democracy. And those who say that you did not support this law are the same as they say: I am also a fool or I am a racist - if you will. That's how it goes. I'll support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, an explanation of the voice? Please, I'm reopening the application. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Nor will I support this law alone, for reasons leading to exclusion, to a non-systemic approach. The initiator or first-signed said that this law is not a systematic approach and that a systemic approach can be expected in a month, two or three. I must also say that I will not support this because you did not support a one-time allowance for pensions that would be given to those who have the lowest pensions, at least some basis for resolving the difficult situation. That is why I will not support this law, because this category of people governed by this law belongs to the middle category of pensioners, not to those with the lowest pensions, not to the highest, but to some extent to the highest. And the proposal that you have taken into this pension system, and the budget will also cover this, covers those who actually live in this sustainable intermediate zone, somewhere far above the lowest pensions. In Slovenia there are many pensioners who have substantially lower pensions than this category of pensioners. And for one more reason, I will not support it, because we are talking about the pension allowance here, but I am not talking about fixing the pension base there for all those who are in a difficult situation, who have problems and deserve it, and they are just like those of our citizens. I am also disturbed by the fact that this proposal is being resolved in this package of rules on the status of deleted persons. But I think it is a great deal of cynicism in this proposal, and I don't think there will be any bad news on our side if we don't support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. I'm asking you again. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u189	Thank you very much, President. I will support this law for a simple reason because it saves inequality and benefits, a small number which did not have the right to realize the work of the widow's pension of the deceased spouse. I will vote in favour because some of the situation will be rectified. I will also vote in favour of the fact that I am one of those who opposed the Social Transfers Act, with which the gentlemen against this law today have frozen 43 rights mostly of the poorest strata in this country, during a time of relative prosperity, and then no conscience has bothered them in terms of how poor, how small they have income, pensioners, social supporters and how they will be with the scholarships - and saved them in 2007 from that title just before the elections, just as they generously earmarked the pensioners in the form of a one-off allowance. Both revolved there some over 34 million euros, and that's the whole story. In short, first they took it and then they gave it generously. We were not against it because the pensioners received it, but the solution was unfair to the poor, of whom today is the word and which gentlemen should have in their hearts with capital letters. This is why I will support this law because it actually runs in the direction of helping those who do not have help without now referring to someone who does not belong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u191	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I must say that sometimes it is very sad to hear some arguments here in the National Assembly, especially when we are talking about regulating some of the irregularities that have occurred. That is why I will vote in favour of the law, because it seems very important to me that we slowly resolve the injustices that have occurred in the past. We do this absolutely with this law. The government's announcement is also that we will systematically address those socially disadvantaged groups that are most vulnerable to the economic and financial crisis in the future. Unfortunately, I may understand the Slovenian Democratic Party that it does not want to treat people in Slovenia in an equal and equitable manner. And I'm pretty sure we're gonna keep doing this and we're gonna do it. It's not true we're reducing scholarships. This must also be said clearly and loudly. There'll be more scholarships. Money is also provided for this. In the previous term, you have done this by taking into account in the censorship of the scholarships the child's allowances to take into account the pension and so on. That's gonna have to be changed. We especially need more scholarships for these times in order to be able to help young people who are learning and who are having a difficult time in education. It is fair to say that some injustices are being corrected by this law, that injustices will be rectified in the future, and that this government is doing so. It's sad that you're turning [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u192	No unnecessary controversy, no controversy [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u193	Excuse me, Mr. President. It is only right that we make certain things clear. I will support this marriage because it seems right to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u195	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Of course I'll support this marriage. I'll tell you why. Words such as: system, category, zone, package were used. We're talking about people! And the greater cynicism is that you push this story into a package deleted. This law was introduced for the first time 30.1. 2008, second time 28.4.2008 and third time now. I'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u196	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 22. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of 51c. Articles of the Law on Local Self-Government. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads: "Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of 51c. the article of the Law on Local Self-Government shall not be adopted." We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 5. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly and that the procedure for the adoption of the authentic interpretation has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group, the Slovenian Democratic Party, to Article 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u197	Thank you so much for saying that. Slovenia is facing the consequences of the economic crisis, but not only because of the crisis in the economy and the financial sector on a global and European scale. A considerable part of this responsibility is also borne by the current government. She had quite a time, a few opportunities to take appropriate, quick action, but this did not happen and the consequences are here; the consequences are bad, so we are already facing some 80,000 unemployed. A month loses a job or loses a job between 200 and 300 people, forecasts are alarming for the future. This is not just an assessment of the opposition and some of the nerds, for example, from the previous term. These are also estimates of economists. I prefer not to read quotes from recognised Slovenian economists on the coordination of government measures in this area. The data themselves on the economic climate, on confidence in the economy in the Republic of Slovenia, are worse from month to month and therefore the country needs rapid and effective measures. It also needs long-term structural changes, which will not only be counter-crisis, will also help create better conditions for the development of the economy and for the greater competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Look at just one example, the law on the guarantee scheme that is in Parliament has, for example, been passed by the English government or the state at the end of last year. We are still engaged in the adoption of these measures, in fact, until the adoption of the regulation will be nothing operational and we have missed a few months of valuable time. We therefore propose that at least one measure, which is a measure of speedy return of overpaid VAT, be carried out without delay and not again with a few months' delay, in order to actually enforce this law only next year. The essence of the amendment that we are now voting on, of course supported by the SDS Group, is that the 21-day period of reimbursement of overpaid VAT will enter into force immediately and not in the second half of this year. I therefore ask you to support this amendment, for at least some support for the Slovenian economy proposal. And I think that all those who have listened to the Slovenian economy more than the Minister of Finance will support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Vizjak explained the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Bogdan Barovic has the word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Since we are talking about the amendment, I would like once again to invite colleagues and colleagues to consider adopting this amendment. It is an immediate effect of a partially quality, unanimously adopted law. We are going to help a lot of people who are in the current liquidity situation and other assistance to them as a timely refund of the overpaid value added tax - it can mean further work and existence. That's all this is about, colleagues and colleagues. And if we find consensus here, believe me, no harm will be done to the state budget or anyone. In the next rebalancing, if we adopt such an amendment and the law, we can absolutely compensate, and we will do a lot of good to people who lack the exact hole that means paying the overpaid value added tax. Let's be reasonable. It's not about that kind of money. Let us also adopt this amendment and adopt a common law that will greatly contribute to the development of the economy in these times. We, in the Slovenian National Party, will be very pleased to support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u200	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 63 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 39. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Dear colleagues, I looked very slowly at the hall, on all sides, and warned that we had started the vote and only then did the deadline rise, in which case I will not interrupt the vote. No, no, no. I had [[...]] Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I note that in the votes of all parliamentary groups, they do not do the same. Earlier in the mid-term, when Mr. Potrč requested an explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group, you suspended the vote under the previous law. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u202	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u203	you have suspended the vote. [[...]] Look, the procedure was running. And now, in this case, you have left the vote to the end, even though you were also warned during the vote that the Members would like to explain their vote. It's happened at the budget rebalancing. It's happened now. I propose only this, Mr President, that in all the votes, all parliamentary groups should be treated equally. So those who are in the coalition, as well as those who are in the opposition. Members of Parliament are the same by status, whether it is the Vice-President of the National Assembly of Mr Porc or any of us. There's no difference. And I want everyone in the National Assembly to have exactly the same status in all procedures as the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u204	Dear Mr. Tanko. I am sure that I have the same attitude and rules with all Members. The previous interruption took place because I had actually overlooked the fact that parliamentary groups have the possibility of justifying, justifying the vote. And I didn't give them that opportunity before. Now I have also given all Members the opportunity to justify their vote and waited, waited, examined and then decided and went to the vote. So your comparison in this regard is not correct. We continue to make decisions, we end up voting on the amendment, we move on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I'm informing you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the marriage would be inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u205	Thank you very much. In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal of the law without an inadequate amendment, because we expect the economic situation to be so tight in early 2009 that many entrepreneurs and economists will need such assistance that improves liquidity. At this point, however, we regret that the public financial situation is not such that we can do so immediately, because the budget balance has earmarked large and necessary funds for social transfers as well as for economic assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u207	Thank you very much. I'm very sorry that it was the decision she was making. I would also like to remind my colleagues that you need to understand that you are putting us in a difficult situation. We want to help the economy with this law, but at the same time we would like to help immediately. That is why I will be alone and a colleague who will come, we will decide and we will support this law, because it will only help, but it will not help as much as we expected. Who knows what's gonna happen on 1.1.2010? An effect would be necessary immediately. Once again, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, we regret that you have not accepted this amendment, because, after all, those rumors of financial consequences - the financial consequences will be, in any event, and the excuses for such and other financial consequences will always be, but that is not right, it is our view that some will still be rich on the basis of this adopted law, or that they will be able to secure their financial situation and liquidity at the expense of those who should belong to them. That's not fair. That's what I want to stress. However, we will vote in favour of the law that we will be 1. 1. 2010, I hope, helped our economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Grims has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u209	In the SDS Group, we will support the proposed law. Logically, this is a solution that we have also proposed. Unfortunately, the Government did not have the courage to adopt the law in its original form, and also because of the previous vote, when you rejected our amendment, we particularly note that, at the time we are facing the economic crisis, timely action is essential when it comes to creating a positive situation for the further development of the Slovenian economy. It is also possible to look for the distinction that is now obvious in timely action, the difference between the previous mandate and the current one. In the previous mandate, Slovenia was 3% to 4% above the average of the euro area. Now, according to the most optimistic predictions, it is only on average, and by more pessimistic, it is already significantly worse than the average. And this difference, ladies and gentlemen, between the positive difference in the time of the government of Janez Janša, the positive difference with the average of the euro area is what testifies to the expertise and timely action of the previous government. This fact that this has been lost in just a few months and you have now slipped to the average or even below it, and a witness to too slow, non-professional action, could be called after a domestic snitch, which is much more fatal for the Slovenian economy in these circumstances than it would have been. For this reason, we also point out that most of our proposals, which have been prepared in a professional and timely manner and could have been valid since the new year, have unfortunately been rejected. And even those whom you accept as this law are crippled so that they are not as effective as they could be. However, these are steps that are necessary for our economy. It is not necessary for our economy to satisfy only the interests of individual groups, as we have seen in some of the coalition's previous votes. It is essential for our Slovenia to establish a more positive framework for the faster development of the Slovenian economy, to relieve it at all possible points and, of course, rather than in the given case, that too many funds are returned to the Slovenian economy as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u210	Thank you very much. An explanation of the vote on your behalf, please. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u211	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will support this law, because I have no other choice, although I regret that the final text of this law is, in particular, completely different from the intention of the proposer, the Slovenian Democratic Party, due to the non-admission of the amendment. The validity of this Act from 1.1.2010, believe me, will not have the expected effects. This law should have been adopted already in January or even earlier, but we did not file it earlier. Therefore, I regret that even now there was not enough hearing to be accepted in the original text. Slovenia had a record economic growth in the previous year. The estimates were that this year will continue to be positive economic growth, and we have constantly warned in the Slovenian Democratic Party if such measures are not taken in time, such laws that will respond to these changes, both in the global economy and in Slovenia, will begin to decline very quickly. Today we're already facing predictions of a minus 4% point. I'm afraid if there are no new measures that the government is forecasting, but I'm afraid it won't, we'll have even more unpleasant forecasts in two months. That is why I really urge the Government and the coalition to respond to such proposals with confirmation, not with a prior rejection, once we are sure to propose new constructive measures again. As I said, this law of these effects, which could have had been adopted in January, will certainly not have any effect now. But I'm going to support him, because there's no one else left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u213	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will support this law, but I must say very clearly, with a very bitter taste, because the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party has not been adopted, so that this law has the effects that this law has been expected to have. The law will not enter into force immediately. In fact, this law should enter into force as early as November or December 2008. However, this coalition, this government did not understand and did not respond properly. That's why today we have so many people at the Employment Institute, and every minute there are so many bankruptcys, and by the end of the year we will have an army at the Employment Institute with 100,000 unemployed. Do not tell me, dear colleagues, those who are sitting here today in Parliament and have not voted in favour of the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party that you are not guilty of losing your job. With this decision you have made here today, you are guilty of a large number of people who will lose their jobs on this account, [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u214	Mr. Poebich, don't argue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u215	because a lot of companies will not be able to provide liquidity in their company. [[....]] And this marriage would solve this problem. So once again, I will support this marriage, but with a bitter taste, because I am sure that what you have done today, you have done a great harm to the economy; to the one who pays you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u217	Today we have heard that the causes of the economic crisis in Slovenia do not concern global conditions, but that this is the fault of the new government. And I'm wondering, gentlemen, where's your face? ♪ Then when ♪ [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u218	Mr. Frangež, the same goes for you. Please, it's not a dispute.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u219	I'm sorry. In the past four years, you have entrusted Slovenia with more than 15 years of independence of this country, and after the state banks had services in the previous term only for the tycunization of Slovenia and the financing of managers' purchases. [[....]] You have a lot of attention for the economy today. And I would like this law, as you will adopt it today, to be adopted at a time once earlier when the situation allowed this and when the state did not have the time-bound deadlines to help restructure the economy with the best possible and carefully considered measures and to start a new flow in Slovenia. I will vote in favour of the law. I will vote in favour of the law as proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u221	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Indeed, I must support this law, because it is an economy, a development of the economy. I'm really sorry that the seniors, the seniors on the other hand, did not support this law to enter into force today, at the latest tomorrow. You need to know that you take some responsibility for certain companies. It is true that you have taken the development of Maribor with a heavy heart. Now that companies in Maribor are failing, you smile, including those coming from Maribor [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u222	Please, Mr. Bezjak, no controversy and no addressing the other side. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u223	Thank you. Then let it be the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u224	It is.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u225	It doesn't look like it. The second thing I want to say is why it is important for the law to be adopted by the immediate application of the deadline. It is precisely from this point of view, because companies would gain from liquidity assets, because these days it is difficult to obtain funds in institutions, banks and so on. This is liquidity money that is not paid off by the state. The taxpayers' money needed to develop the company, to pay and so on. Unfortunately, certain companies have to go bankrupt, the number of unemployment rises to two, and this is the response of the current government, the current coalition. I hope you'll have more sense in the future [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in fact, supported, at any time, any other good proposal by the opposite party, the opposition. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u226	Thank you very much. I'm asking you again. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u227	Thank you for your word. A number of modernisations took place in the previous term. Both in the field of information technology, including the tax system, and a number of tax measures have been implemented at an estimated amount of € billion and a half. Here were tax reliefs for companies and also for taxpayers. The modernisation of the tax system, I can say, has been very radically implemented in the previous term. There are still some options for further improvements. One of these is the additional reductions in the taxation of profits from companies that could be earmarked for development. One of these additional options is subsidies and aid to development firms and additional tax reliefs and one of the most important, if not the most important options are payment deadlines, that is to say when the Government, the contracting State, and the repayment deadlines for those funds which are overpaid to the State budget in one way or another. VAT is part of this category, and I am, in fact, very upset that this coalition in this area, which remains, has not been able to take some important, fundamental steps. She certainly had a lot of opportunities to do more in the area of VAT returns than it did. In order to further reduce, reduce payment deadlines or payback periods, as this information system certainly permits, ours is better than in Estonia, for example. In addition, the State certainly has in its accounts in its accounts the resources with which it can substantially reduce and secure this payment, especially since it is the funds created by the economy. On 1 January, however, the deadline is complete transposition, especially since the Government has changed its mind at the time of the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u229	Given that the purpose of the law has been completely distorted by the application of 1.1.2010, it is very difficult to decide whether to support it at all or not, since by then we can theoretically change it seven times as many times as we meet. The main purpose of this law was to allow for liquidity relaxation of the economy. This law supports the economy. If our amendment had been adopted, it would have acted immediately and would have acted indiscriminately for everyone. It would not increase the public financial deficit, as it is increased by some other measures taken by your government and which are not effective. One such is the law on subsidisation of part-time work; however, the law begins a series of bankruptcys. There will be a number of jobless people, despite the relatively high public expenditure of this title and the effects of none. So there is no valid reason to oppose this law. The former government left a good balance sheet, a government surplus in 2007 and 2008. Debt fell from 28% of GDP to 23% of GDP. However, at the time that the former government was still engaged in only ongoing business, and from the election until the appointment of a new government, it had taken some measures to mitigate the coming crisis; some of them, unfortunately, did not. If we did not take those two measures, which were then proposed and then adopted, I am afraid that we would be facing the banking crisis now, which would not be the most encouraging. My opinion is that, despite all of this, the law goes to uphold the law because it shows some direction to move forward. But there will be no effect today from such a law as we will support it, for, at that time, 1. 1. 2010, such a law will no longer be necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u231	Thank you for your word. Even though the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party has not been adopted and the law is somehow crippled, distorted, disabled and ineffective, I will end up supporting the law. For there is still more sparrow in the hand than a dove on the roof, even though this sparrow is the size of an ant. I am surprised at the way this government is saved and encouraged by the economy. Obviously, coffee will not be able to save anything, or so essential, that it will be able to intervene structurally and qualitatively in an economy that is, according to some forecasts, in the worst crisis in 2009 and somehow towards 2010, which is expected to reach the bottom, so it is necessary to act quickly in 2009. Finally, I would say that the law should have been passed a long time ago. Given when we invested it, it could have been around the new year, but the coalition has smoldied it for so long and made it crippled and disabled that the effects of 2009 will not, but in 2010, the crisis period will reach the bottom and production will be revived and will no longer have that effect. Of course, the economy will also be happy to take this change, which will be returned to them much too late, but will not have a significant impact on the stimulus of the economy. So I'm going to support the marriage, even though it's completely huddled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u232	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u233	Thank you very much. I will also support this law myself because I feel co-responsible that we have not found for four years, during the previous power and functioning of Parliament, the determination to shorten the time for VAT return for a bad month and a half. Thus, it is also the responsibility of the former authorities to delay this VAT return and to correct it by law. However, I support the postponement of this law because the immediate implementation of the law would cause immediate problems in the budget for this year. I think that the positive effects of such a solution can also be expected in the coming year. That is why it is right to support this law; although late, it will shorten the deadline. However, this government has only taken 4 months to support such a solution, that the deadline for VAT returns and I think that this is much less time than 4 years when we did not agree at the time of relative prosperity to do what would then have significantly less impact on the budget, but it would probably not have been any budgetary surplus that my colleagues have liked to remember; but that is life. At the time, this matter was in the shadow of a serious thought, and today it is at the forefront. It's right that our colleagues have made a marriage, and they have our support. It'll be real with some delay, and I think it's a contribution. Of course I'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Urh has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u235	Thank you for your word. I will support this marriage. I must say that I am a half-year-old member of the National Assembly, and I have already been declared guilty. If someone is responsible and is guilty of not adopting this law, it is the fault of those who were in the government 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, who could have adopted this law in the wake of large economic growth in support of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Personally, the Group of Social Democrats will support the amendment of the value added tax law. In support of the economy, in the mandate of this government, we will support a reduction in the VAT refund period to 21 days with effect from 1 January 2010. Today, we remember that another year ago was golden in comparison with today’s times. Now, let us not forget that we have yet another important moment ahead of us, namely the adoption of the third package of anti-crisis austerity measures. Since we are courageous here alone, we want to help all those who need help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u238	Thank you very much. I am reopening my application for reasons of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u239	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I must say that I will support the proposed law, otherwise with a bit of bitter taste, because I would like it to be enforced sooner than it will be now. But it has to be said that this is only one of those laws that could be somewhat or, I am sure, in the final stage, help make this crisis, which we are witnessing, smaller. Speaking of golden times, it would also be good to say that when the highest growth was and the criticism was very strong by the then opposition, which ensured that this was due to favourable economic conditions in the world. Back then, economic growth was over 7%, and now it's negative economic growth. Here, too, we now pronounce ourselves or some say that this is the result of an economic crisis. But at the time Slovenia had the highest economic growth in the euro area, today, and this moment Slovenia has the lowest economic growth in the same area. So it is important to ask whether these measures, which are not actually appropriate at this time, are appropriate or not. I think they're absolutely inadequate. And I really look forward to that third package of measures, but I haven't seen the first and second ones or measures at all, and even fewer have been detected by our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u240	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 12th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Insurance Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Insurance Act is suitable for further consideration. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members, please, for the applications. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u241	In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a decision that the law is suitable for further consideration, and we hope that in the next procedure nothing like the previous law, the VAT Act, which was "totally screwed up" or destroyed its basic purpose, will not happen. What is the basic purpose of this law? The fundamental purpose of this law is to give opportunities to those for whom the Mutual is actually established, i.e. to ensure that they decide how money will be managed within the framework of the Mutual Management and that it will not be decided by an individual or a few individuals, well-paid individuals sitting in the chairs of the administration or regional administrations of that company. The mutual has ruled very well in recent years. It has dominated the creation of more than €10 million in profits each year. On the other hand, some Slovenian hospitals have shown losses, not because of poor business, but because the same Mutual did not pay them services that were urgently needed. The amendment of the law should help to eliminate these anomalies in the future and to allow the surpluses that are eventually created in this insurance undertaking to return to the insurers in such a way as to reduce waiting periods in those areas where these periods are absolutely high and that the funds are intended to improve the health care of all citizens and citizens. This is what we consider to be a fundamental mission of mutual insurance and not making profits. We also believe that the attempts we have witnessed in the past, which have been severely prevented by the former Minister of Health - on tycunization or on the ownership of this insurance company - should never happen again, and we believe that once the insurers get more rights and will be able to manage the insurance company in fact, such attempts will also be prevented. For this reason, we will also support and reiterate this decision, and we hope that the law in future legislative treatment will not be subject to such corrections as to its fundamental purpose, as has been the case with the VAT return law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u243	Thank you. In the Slovenian National Party, as has already been said, we also support the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the First Treatment Insurance Act. We'll support your decision. We regret only that he came too late and at the same time proves this, and we are pleased that, at the hearing in January and February, we had a proposal for a law supplementing the insurance law, which we discussed in two cases at previous meetings, in the Slovenian National Party. In the first reading, the law was completely incomplete; in the second reading, the Law on Insurance and Supplements was essentially amended; it was substantially recast by the Law-Legal Service; and today's proposal by law is proof that what was done was bad. I hope that this proposal for a law supplementing the insurance law in the second reading will remain substantively the same so that it will not experience the fate to be completely changed and reversed. In this first reading, we will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Dr. Luka Juri has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Notwithstanding the fact that the purpose of the law is good and that it tries to regulate an area that we have found to be problematic in most cases, and the fact that, on the other hand, the solutions themselves, the concrete solutions to this law, raised the eyebrows of many lawyers and the professional public, when we realize how irrational and pointless they are, the Social Democrats have decided that it is precisely with the desire to promote dialogue with all parties in the National Assembly - which in the end is also dehumanizing to themselves - I am aware of the facts and perceptions that the proposals are opposed only because they are supposed to come from other sides, I note that they are not true; for this reason we have decided that we will not oppose the proposal at first reading. However, we will strive to correct it in a second reading by making it meaningful, practical and effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u246	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 3. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Franz Bogovic, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, to Mr Franz Bogovic's question on the reorganisation of Slovenian electricity or the amendment of the national energy programme. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u247	Thank you very much. I propose to my colleagues and colleagues, although we are used to some automation on such proposals, that we support this proposal. If you remember, we all, even in our previous mandate as the opposition, spoke about the need for a new energy national programme. We were talking about thermal energy facilities, about mines that also concern our valleys. We were talking about possible constructions, the closure of nuclear power plants; we were talking about a chain of Sava power plants. We've talked about a lot of things. But all of this was chaotic, not specified in the national programme. Ideas, opinions, wishes, desires each year changed. In short, it is high time that we all talk together about what our energy national programme should be. How we will ensure energy self-sufficiency, which is most important and about which the Slovenian National Party has also spoken over the past four years. Colleagues and colleagues! Take this proposal as a well-meaning, not as a guess to a minister or anyone, but as a content that we need to talk about, which we need to finally design and with which we will address not only the energy issue, remember, not only the energy issue, but also the social, economic, demographic and geographical issues are strongly linked to the national energy programme. In Slovenia, we will absolutely support the initiative, with the expectation that most Members and Members will support it, and that we will once again agree on a medium-term or even long-term national energy policy that is important for all of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u248	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The changed situation due to the adoption of the climate energy package, which also sets important targets for Slovenia: 25% of the share of renewables in final consumption, reduction of CO's emissions and increased energy efficiency; changes due to the consequences of the crisis, including in the electricity market, as prices have fallen dramatically and I am therefore pleased that the market has also started to operate in Slovenia. These offers to households at a 10% lower price are due to a somewhat balanced consumption and supply, so the market has started to work. And in these circumstances, strategic decisions must continue in the direction of safe, reliable, competitive and sustainable energy use. However, these new terms of reference are so different from those on which the national energy plan is based, that this plan needs to be amended and only on the basis of the amendment of this plan will it go quickly with concrete projects. I therefore believe that the debate on this topic is more than necessary, as we are aware of the phenomena that this Parliament has already confirmed, in the context of the rebalancing, an additional guarantee quota for Block-6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant, which is actually a useful project, but would be in the light of new changes, at least, to be revised and placed in these national objectives to be achieved by 2020. That is why we propose or therefore support the proposal of Member Franz Bogovic to discuss this, to call on the Government to prepare a national energy plan as soon as possible, so that, by then, it will not rush to our door, with some investments, which, by the way, even after the Minister of Finance's statements yesterday, will produce a 50% higher electricity price than today's market power. We do not want to leave the stakeholders, as well as the European Community, an energy policy that will move away from these "green" ambitions and actually go towards more expensive energy, all because it is political social projects. I believe that there is still a need to discuss this in depth and to reach this consensus on the amendment of the national energy plan, and then to accelerate the investments resulting from this National Strategy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u251	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The energy theme is a topic with which, by its own professional duty, I have been working at the local level for the past decade, and I must say that I have been given to see the practical majority of the arrangements of these systems across Europe and also see what the consequences are when wrong steps are taken in individual countries, whether these are very fast sales of energy systems or whether these are reckless privatisations of energy systems, but sometimes also wrong investment decisions. When I monitor energy in Slovenia, I think that we are in Slovenia, today, on a very good path and that in fact this energy system, which is largely state-owned and which also has very different diversification sources of production, is well on track to ensure good electricity supply, is said to be stable and also at competitive prices. Given the familiarity of the situation at home, I think there is a perfectly legitimate fear that at this point there is not enough strategic thinking in the context of the very changed circumstances in which we are living. There is a policy that continues when trying to leave the initiative to one part of this energy sector to practically set up a strategy for the next decade. I am one of those who strongly advocate that coal mining, which takes place in Slovenia and is also necessary in relation to energy, and that it has a certain ten-year perspective in Slovenia, but it is necessary to make a very precise policy in the strategic documents, whether today there is a need for some increase in these capacities, including with very large inputs at these times, or whether it is possible to settle this matter in a different way. In a way, as far as I know this system, I am sure that, as long as we follow the dynamics of the National Assembly, as we have seen yesterday from the words and response of the President of the Government, we will discuss little and decide little, because those who sign contracts today, who also make calls, will beat us all together and for the next ten years we will have nothing else to discuss. That is why we can leave this debate to a term of office or two, and they will discuss it when something can be discussed. I therefore call on all Members and Members to support, in a responsible way, for the good of Slovenia, the well-being of energy, only a very fair initiative to discuss this issue at the strategic level, in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich has the floor. Procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u253	Mr President, at the previous meeting it appeared that something was actually happening at this point, which does not belong to it. And this is a debate on how to talk at strategic levels about certain substances in order to have an in-depth discussion and so on. This Article of the Rules of Procedure and this Institute is very clear: Question and initiative. The possibility of a complementary question. If the Member or Member is not satisfied or has not been answered in full. And a third option, which is voted on and not explained what anyone would like to do on this subject, or whether it will be an unsatisfactory answer, according to that Member, not the other 89 Members and Members, or whether he has not received a satisfactory answer to the question he has asked. These are not collective issues, these are not matters discussed by the National Assembly, but are a substance regulated by the Rules of Procedure. Mr Petan, read it and read the reasons why this so-called parliamentary hour is intended. I think that we will have to update this institution, even in the way that some other parliaments have to say that the Minister of the Environment has half an hour available once a month to answer questions from Members and Members. And within this, initiatives can be developed. I don't mind talking about strategic matters, contracts, and I don't know what, but these are the other articles of the Rules of Procedure. Preparation of the material to be placed on the working body's agenda shall be made up of views, solutions shall be drawn up and, if the discussion is not satisfactory or sufficient in the working body, shall be held in the National Assembly. As it is said, in this case, it is only when the questioner thinks that he has not been properly or understood or has not answered him properly and so on. I regret that this point from the meeting in some way "commits" in some way to some of the general statements of us individuals on the question of another Member or Member. I hope you will not take this as some criticism of your work, but above all, because I see that we all want something from you, but you would like this to be harmonious all together in this National Assembly, which is right, but I firmly believe that how these voting intentions are explained, that it is not in the context of this article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Procedural Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem and then procedurally Mr Bogovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Please grant 15 minutes of rest before the decision of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u256	Before deciding on the draft decision, of course. Procedural, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u257	I very much respect Mr Anderlich's experience, which is beyond doubt, and I firmly believe he knows the Rules of Procedure better than I know him. But I would read business again why I asked yesterday's question about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u258	Mr Bogovic, there is no need for us to know this business text. Also in procedural proposals, it is not appropriate to politicise with others. Of course you have the chance to go all the way. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u259	The third question I raised yesterday was that, on the basis of such a strategic document, decisions on further steps in Slovenian energy would be taken, meaning that the validation of guarantees for individual investments and the possible reorganisation of the Slovenian electricity system would be carried out only after the consideration and adoption of the National Energy Programme in the National Assembly. On this question, I read the magnetograms very carefully today, and I didn't get an answer. Because I claim that others will do this by signing a treaty instead of talking to me about it and answering that question, I propose that the National Assembly do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u260	Bogovich, no one has ever reported to you that you should not have made a request to address this point at the next meeting. Once again, paragraph 246 states that the initiative to hold a debate on the response of the Government or the Minister-General or the Secretary-General of the Government is decided by the National Assembly without discussion. Of course, there are no business provisions that would prevent explanations of vote from taking place before any vote. And this explanation for the voice is, if you ask me, to a large extent abused on all sides as some kind of debate, on all sides, to understand each other. And we're gonna have to take this seriously. And if we agree to do so, we will also have to adapt this institution accordingly. So far, my proposals in the College have been made at an informal meeting to severely limit the controversy, in particular in order to have only one round of explanations rejected. Just so you know. So we'll go through the whole procedure just like before. However, I would like to warn everyone, not just one, that they are getting as close to the spirit of the Rules of Procedure as possible and that they are not ahead of the debate that may yet take place. So much for that. We have now concluded the explanation for the vote of the groups of Members. Someone wants an explanation in their own name. I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u261	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I agree with everything that has been said. But I'm gonna say I have a big problem myself. Why? Because I want to discuss what our energy projects are like in this National Assembly, but I am afraid that we will not get answers at such a meeting as is now proposed by our colleagues from the SLS. There has been a lot of talk in recent weeks about various energy projects. But, unfortunately, I've never heard anyone say anything about the Savvy. I come from a valley where we live or as if some would like to see us live, even from energy. And for me personally, this question is extremely important. And I think that in this House Members and Members coming from different parts must express their position. Regrettably, in these days, there are many lobbying for their niches, marketable, different, and political. Before I vote, I'll think about how I'm going to decide. As I said, this debate is extremely important to me. I come from a valley that lives on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u263	I am looking at the initiative of Ambassador Bogovič with affection. However, I will vote against such a debate because I think that the National Assembly must properly address this large energy package. I think that the debate on the response of the Prime Minister to the question of emissary is not a city. At the first regular meeting of the Committee on the Economy - at the next meeting, Mr Vizjak reiterated this initiative - I have already proposed that the Committee on the Economy deal thematically with energy issues, also because, thank God, the previous government in this area has been ineffective and has not realized what it has written in its strategic documents. Thank God, because in this case half of Slovenia's electricity production, as well as the entire Drava chain of hydroelectric power plants, would be privately owned. I am pleased to redefine our energy plans, even because we are still far from those goals that we have adopted in the context of our international commitments, and this is a greater share of renewable energy sources. I will support this debate, but in second place and at second time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u265	Thank you for your word. I must also say that the question of colleague Franz Bogovic has aroused a great deal of interest in me, because I have been following the energy situation for a long time. Certainly, a broader debate was needed to redefine some of the priorities or new ones related to the energy market in Slovenia. The lower prices brought by the electricity market have already been mentioned since competing companies had access to our market. And in the light of this, perhaps some electricity production is less competitive and should be examined whether it still belongs in this context. We are committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the fight against climate change. Diversification of energy sources is desirable. Certainly, greater emphasis should be placed on new energy sources that bring new jobs, a challenge for technology, perhaps photovoltaics, wind energy, and above all biomass, where there is a trend or efficiency that this is thermal energy with cogeneration, that is, electricity production. It may also be worth mentioning waste incineration, of course with modern technology devices. We are reminded of this by the European Union that about 40 to 50% of the current ones should be disposed of in this way. Of course, we have witnessed the work of various lobbying. In Block 6, it should be noted that it is accompanied by the purchase of energy vouchers and that the final price of electricity can be very questionable. Finally, I would like to point out that in the previous term we have also held some such debates, which are widespread, on the basis of a question. For example, the debate on the sugar factory in Ormož [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u266	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich. He's quitting. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u267	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable. Let me first say that I will support this proposal. Secondly, I would like to say that I come from an area where there is no such lobby, which is said to be no thermal power plants, no hydropower plants, no nuclear power plant, no gas power plant. That's what they say I can look at independently. It's a very strategic, long-term decision. But here I don't care because the consequences are going to be 20, 30 years, and today we're deciding on a period of 20, 30 years. And the matter needs to be seriously weighed, in Parliament, to say its own words and also to make decisions. Actually, I'm not against what happened so quickly. However, this means that the matter went terribly wrong for Maribor. In Maribor we know that we have hydroelectric power plants that are financially beneficial in terms of production. But if we go into this, to quickly adopt the plan, it means that Maribor and this part are completely cut off from any development. This means that there would not be an expected power plant on Kozjak, there would be no power plants on Mura, which are also a solution to flood safety, there would be no Krske 2, there would be no gas plants that were envisaged. On the other hand, the entire accumulation of Drava power plants from Maribor would have been brought somewhere else. Now, I don't think you can do it that easily. If we make a deal, that's fine. I don't see any problem. On the other hand, if we focus on thermal power plants, this means that we will have major problems from an energy climate perspective. It's a big CO leak, that's facts, and that's a good point. I do not prejudge any solution, I am not against any solution, but I am in favour of a patient agreement and on the basis of a programme, the plan is to say - this is how it will happen in Slovenia for 20, 30 years. Since these are not decisions for one day, they are not for one government, for one term, but they are some 10-year decisions. That is why I support this proposal, and I think it is right for us to take certain decisions and responsibilities in the National Assembly as well. I support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u268	Thank you very much. I'm asking you again. Colleagues, I would really like to warn you not to discuss the debate yourself, but just explain your voice. Please. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u269	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! I support any debate on energy in one way or another. Reliable is energy, which is a very seductive "breed", for these or those circles, lobbying, political, even local interesting. It's interesting for the media, for individuals, not least for capital. It is interesting, however, in recent times when we are talking about efficient energy use, how, in what way, we are going to update the energy strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, so much more. But the way this debate is supposed to come to the National Assembly, I don't think it's true. We have a committee, we have a Rules of Procedure that tells us exactly how certain debates are being discussed and I therefore explain my vote. I say that even though I support all the debates in this case and in this way, I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u271	Thank you, President. I will support this proposal, and I will also mention some of the reasons why I think such support is justified. First of all, it is justified because we have long ago found, at the time of the preparation of the coalition agreement, that energy issues, in particular in relation to climate and other changes, environmental issues, renewables, energy efficiency and so on, are a central problem. And I don't know why we should run away from such discussions. So that's one reason why I support this. In doing so, I stress that at least those of us who have negotiated this at the night meeting have all stood up for it. Another reason is that the Committee on the Economy has adopted a work programme. This work programme states that we will deal with these matters and I, as Chairman of this committee, have made a request to the Minister for Development, the Minister for the Economy and the Director of the Energy Directorate to prepare immediately the relevant materials that will allow for a thorough debate. If the proposal we are currently talking about were supported, I would expect additional materials that would probably be prepared by the proponents of this debate, and that would only be welcome if we had so much more of these materials. In addition, we are all, including in the coalition agreement, and also in the work plan of the Committee on the Economy, to undertake all the resolution programmes, those of the 34 that were once adopted and to determine the stage to which they are realized, what needs to be done or abandoned. This is therefore another reason why I support this kind of debate on energy, even if it is proposed by someone else, if it is not the Committee on the Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u273	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I absolutely support the proposal for a debate in the National Energy Assembly from this very point of view. In some ways, the construction of very expensive energy entities, such as those that are actually much cheaper and much more rational and much more ecological, cannot possibly be brought to life. I have in mind a project of five power plants on Mura, which is why the mayor of Radgona himself should take over, not that he is not at the meetings after all. And I also have a project of Kozjak, a pumping plant, actually a flow for Kozjak, and here, I also think there is a need to support and discuss. But not somehow that we want to build a variety of sources of energy, additional sources of energy, as well as maybe a nuclear power plant, a second block in Krk. The Primors themselves also oppose the free source of power plants, wind power plants. I don't understand that either. Why do they object? This is the future from an ecological point of view, as well as from a financial point of view very low. I therefore propose that this proposal also be accepted by a number of people for this consideration in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Otherwise, I conclude my explanation of vote on behalf of the groups in question, on my own behalf. I'm closing my vote and assigning a 15-minute recess, which is until 16.20. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u275	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Please take your seats in the hall, because we will proceed immediately to the vote. A few moments to occupy your seats. Please! I'm asking you to take your seats again. We will proceed immediately to the vote. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 27. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 27.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jožet Tank, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Borut Pahor to Mr Jožet Tank's question on human resources changes. We're voting. Excuse me. Please come in first. I'm giving you a lot of time. Please explain the vote on behalf of the members of the groups. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u276	Thank you so much for saying that. The President of the Government, Mr Pahor, announced a different human resources paradigm, a different approach and the execution of the staff, as used and carried out by his predecessors, who, in particular, was the last to receive mainly political recruitment and non-professional recruitment. As a street musician, the president of the government said that no one would be replaced as a street liner, under the level of the Secretary of State. In the event that such an event happens, it will be necessary to explain in particular in writing for such cases that no one will be recruited by political affiliation, that your question does not exist, ours does not exist, and should not be asked. And in January this year, he announced that all human resources changes would take place through the newly established KAS. When we look at and analyse the situation in the human resources policy, in which the President of the Government, Borut Pahor, is particularly pleased, we find that none of the changes under the level of State secretaries has been in writing. That exchanges also take place deep below the level of State secretaries, including in the offices of Directorates and in official posts. Nor is it true that the statement made by the President yesterday that, following the establishment of the KAS, all human resources exchanges take place on the basis of the decisions of the KAS, since the replacement on the head of the Slovenian railways and also on the head of the police, was passed by the decisions of the KAS. The recruitment is also highly political, as indicated by the appointments of Dr. Max Tynikar, Dr. Mateja Kožuh Novak, Dr. Andrej Godc, mag. Janez the Ripper, mag. Vinka Logai, Maretica Mahne, Rudija Mojet, Draška Veselinovich, Zoran Thaler, Dr. Bogomir Kovac, Andrej Gerencher and others in the supervisory worlds and other institutions. As these exchanges take place, it is also possible to understand from a letter sent by the Liberal Democracy Group on the Internet when it announced a replacement at the head of the Forestry Directorate, and it is written: "But our objective cannot be a direct account with the director of the Directorate." In short, these exchanges are taking place, they are taking place in a very secretive way and they are extremely political. I suggest that you support the debate by the coalition members, as the Prime Minister has said, that we look into the eye, because if you have sufficient arguments, then you will be able to respond easily to the allegations that I have raised in my parliamentary question, and [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mr Alexander Ravnikar has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u278	Thank you, President. I would just like to say that the President of the Government has responded in a substantive manner. No illegality has been reported in all exchanges so far. If, as the National Assembly, we have the right to exercise our supervisory function, we have it right over the legality of the functioning of the State authorities. And there's nothing wrong here. However, we also have enough constant deliberation on those issues that are central and we have enough of these strategies to place us on issues that are not decisive or for this time and for this body by surrounding us, by strategic, tactical and operational approaches. We will therefore vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before I make a procedural proposal, let me say that I strongly protest against the way in which the President is assessed, as is done by the head of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Now, a procedural proposal, I suggest you take a 10-minute recess before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Of course, I will take this proposal into account. An explanation of the vote in your own name, please. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u282	I will vote against such a debate and controversy around human resources policy and human resources counters, although I am very interested in this topic and I know it to some extent. However, for such a discussion, when the SDS personnel counter, which was spinning at such a speed, will be brought from the service with such speed that it exceeded all the technical instructions for 10 times the speed and overrun the electric engine. When you return this human resources counter, we will examine it well, count down on the number of personnel exchanges in the first year, second, third and fourth years of rule, and then accept such a discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u284	Your Honor! I shall exceptionally proceed to the level of the proposer of this decision. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u285	Please, Mr. Brultz, not if you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u286	Then it'll be hard to defend her. [[...]] See, during the pre-election period, all administrative units were required to attach the SDS electoral programme to letters to Slovenians around the world. Then all the chiefs of the administrative units should be suspended. Slovenian mail had to place tables with the SDS sign on shelves where customers used their services throughout Slovenia. In HIT, they had to cook directly frozen fish because a lady from the SDS party, with the support of the President at HIT, was applying her ideas and we did not work on these replacements. So, there is still a great deal of room for us to arrange for the rule of law in this country, so I will vote against such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u288	I will vote in favour of the debate because the pre-election political manipulation of the Prime Minister of the Government on the non-political recruitment that has been occupied by a number of voters broke out before the last Human Resources Accreditation Council, so-called KAS, which is supposed to provide a political, professional appointment, was obviously "if it is ours", which is yours, "is apolitical". The government is carrying out systematic and comprehensive human resources tsunamis, as almost all directorates of the Directorates, members of the public service councils at state level, have already been replaced. We are now coming to a second stage at the level of municipalities, landscapes and so on. If I mention just a few. The President of the Council of the Party is indeed the President of the Film Fund. That's where the directors change after the current tape. Member of a number of councils of other public institutions. The President of the administration of the largest state bank of Nova Ljubljanska Banka became the one who should be sitting in the National Assembly as an LDS Member without a public tender, without adequate qualifications. The president of the SD of the Koper Municipal Committee is the president of the University of Primorske Student Organisation, whose Rector is the former SD internal minister and his right-hand man is the former secretary of state at the Ministry. I believe that the President of the Government is not satisfied with his new image, which he expressed yesterday with unrelenting anger when he answered the questions of the Members. However, if the mirror placed does not show the expected image, it cannot be the opposition's fault. The opposition of the mirror continues for the sake of responsibility, but the image cannot change or even beautify. This calls for a debate on this issue in order to bring together before this mirror a whole series of all those client staff exchanges that we have been to and will be witnessed to in the coming days and months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u290	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will simply not vote in favour of this decision, because the arguments of the motioner, a street political bummer, have not convinced me, so I will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u292	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'm voting against it because you obviously don't have another theme to come back to the agenda with. And if anywhere, then in this area Borut Pahor proved that he was serious. Look, I don't agree with my Prime Minister in a lot of ways. However, I agree with one thing that he meant seriously in this area. And like my colleague said before, we could be here hours discussing who and where you've been setting up the past four years and it's not worth it. It's a waste of time. And on those lists that you mention, they even talked about lists in Parliament last time. And I'm not going to talk about what lists you were talking about when one of your vice presidents held a meeting of the National Assembly, but he didn't react. And there are people on those lists who have expired their mandates. And today, they're amazed to find out what they're doing on your lists. But you know, it's a convenient thing for such and other abuses. And your list, you can put it anywhere you want. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u294	I will vote for myself because it is precisely because of some political hygiene that I think it is necessary to hold a debate, because we have heard today, and we can read from the newspaper every day that there are people in positions without a call for proposals. Perhaps it would suggest, at least for the form, that a call be made and then, indeed, by some time delay chosen in advance to settle in this place. But most of all, I was revolutionised by a letter calling for a change in the agricultural ministry, because I am a member of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. And in some other circumstances, if there were to be a rapid change of government, and if everyone were to change and recruit in this way, I wonder how someone in some position could possibly be able to take a job because they would be threatened by a permanent change. And projects run for three to five years require at least two mandates in the right place. Finally, let this public debate take place so that, as the Commissioner said yesterday, we can look into the eyes - pure accounts, good friends. That way we can look into each other's eyes. Otherwise, it's more difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u296	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against, of course. Not because we might be afraid to discuss these issues, on the contrary. But I'm afraid there's something about this meeting going on for, like, a week or so. In fact, it would take so long if we wanted to count in the current coalition and tell you all the changes you've made in four years. Colleagues from SDS, you may be ashamed to speak [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u297	Dear colleague, don't be directly argumentative with the other side, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u298	I'm not embalming.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u299	It can be politicised in the National Assembly in general.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u300	In short, I am ashamed that my fellow Members are discussing exchanges while they have done such things and replaced so many people during their term of office. No, I will be more precise, I will say. [[...]] The counter that points to your website, this number you're publishing today, you've only switched to one of the ministries. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u301	A colleague of the Classics, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u302	Only one of the ministries where I worked, at the Ministry of the Interior, so many people in one ministry alone, are replacing you in thousands.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u303	Thank you very much. I'm asking you again for applications. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u304	Thank you for your word. It seems that some still look at the world over the past four years through pink glasses and cannot see what has actually been happening over the past four years, how many people have been replaced, how many people have been given just a writing table, a ficus no more, and the chair has been writing. And that's why the expectations of replacing after winning the election, between the voters and the electorate, who also helped our party in power, were great. And so the mandate holder's statement that there will be no political change, a promise that has not come across our circles of over-approval, because we feel that those who do not do their job well should still be replaced. We could also look around the hall and find someone who was a member of a supervisory committee, but today it turns out that that oversight committee has not done its job. What I have heard is why we should discuss the response of the President of the Government, but only reminds me that a number of specialists with doctoral titles have been appointed who, according to the current opposition, do not have professional references to perform the work for which they have references. Then it is very understandable that they have been given an opportunity and that the small number we have among experts should lead us to give professional people the opportunity to work. I will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Mr President, first of all, I will protest that you did not protest and protest against Comrade Kumra's slutty hate speech. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u307	Please, Mr Jerovšek, explain your voice [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u308	It's your duty. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u309	Other Options [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u310	And you didn't do it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u311	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u312	It was a hate speech and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u313	Peace in the hall. Mr Jerovšek, I warn you that you are in explanation of your vote and that you have no other rights or the possibility to talk about other topics. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u314	I have the right to protest.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u315	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u316	I will vote in favour of this proposal. Because it's about talking about the pre-election fraud that the ruling option has now carried out. The option, which has made enormous use of human tsunamis and has had strong support for media space, is now sweeping everything alive with much more rigorous methods and much more ideological purity, which exists in professional positions. And this process is no longer hidden today, it will continue until the last power plant, surely. Look, and after something, you're recorders, something special. Under this government has been politically liquidated and replaced by someone who has not yet begun to perform his functions. We know that Mr Marko Crnkovic was appointed director of the Media Directorate. The Minister has already decided, it has written everywhere, and then he made one mistake, which is logical, something that is acceptable to the democratic world. He wrote in his column that he agrees that criminals do not bear the names of streets of Slovenian cities and places. And of course it was far too much for orthodox and dogmatic civil society. The minister took him out immediately, shut him down. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u317	Mr Jerovšek, I warn you - what expressions you use and what important connections you drive. Please, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u318	You're a sociologist. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u319	in fact, no, no, no, no, no, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u320	I could understand that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u321	Explanation. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u322	You're a sociologist, you could understand that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u323	That's why I understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u324	So, look, this human resources policy is based on strictly ideological dogmatic principles. Such cases, I could tell you a lot more. And this is dangerous for Slovenian democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Procedural Mr. Lois Posedel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u326	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I hope that you have also come to realize that, with this interpretation of the Rules of Procedure when voting on the issues, you have opened this debate practically and that we are listening to a debate at a likely level that is not appropriate, and above all to a debate on a topic where the main ones are not responsible here. There are no government presidents, no ministers, all those who, according to the opposition, are supposed to be making all these many changes. I would therefore suggest that the Rules of Procedure should respect that the proposed public debate is voted on today only if this debate is voted on, the President and the Ministers will have the opportunity to answer, or today we will listen to all 90 Members who claim one or the other. I therefore propose that you respect or jointly respect this Rules of Procedure and that we vote on this proposal rather than discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u327	Dear Mr. Posedel, that's what we're talking about. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] [[...]] Mr. Jerovšek, please. Dear colleague Posedel, we discussed this some half an hour ago. It is not possible to discuss this initiative at the next meeting under the Rules of Procedure. However, the Rules of Procedure shall allow explanations of vote before each vote and shall give no exceptions, including for this case. That is why I must allow my explanation of vote. I myself proposed at the informal meeting of the College that we should, in general, limit or define the issue of explanations of vote by trying to prevent any controversy and debate and by limiting the explanation of vote to just one reported round. This last proposal has not been adopted, and the first question is how successful we can be in conducting such a debate. We cannot discuss this and I must not put it to the vote because it would also violate the Member's right to have an opportunity to explain it to the vote. It is clear, however, that this institution, if there is will in the National Assembly, is not good in the way it is, and needs to be changed. That is why, of course, we continue. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u328	Colleagues from the current position would know [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u329	A respected magus. Grims, it's a voice explanation, not a dialogue and a conversation with your colleagues in the current position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u330	However, it is procedural to point out that by voting "for" they have the opportunity to invite the Prime Minister of the Government to join us. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u331	You haven't come forward for a procedural question, so please just explain your vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u332	Your Honor, no one would open this subject if it were not your key pre-election promise that there would be no political change. Now, of course, there is a counter already in very high numbers, and I believe that many people are very embarrassed about this because they realize that the last elections for the winners were a major political fraud. And for that reason, I understand them very well and very well. This proves that they have a bad conscience. After all, even bad conscience is proof that at least conscience exists, which is already in some way a positive sign, this opens the way for further negotiation. However, it is important to note here that this debate would be good to discuss these dimensions. For when the previous term came, it went like this: if it was a public call, it was a cry that it was political recruitment; but if there was no invitation to tender, it was scandalous, extremely inappropriate political recruitment. In the debate on this issue, however, it was said: if it is an invitation to tender, it is an invitation to tender, if not, but a good practice. Please! In the previous term, this was a scandalous political recruitment, and in your case, you baptized it for good practice. This debate for the development of a political culture in Slovenia would be very, very beneficial, due to the end of this kind of diversion. And, of course, also to know what great electoral fraud was really about.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u334	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I hardly believe why the parliamentary programme is so poorly viewed, because if at least a little of the arguments were used in their debates or explanations of vote, people might be able to move the debate a little bit easier in the National Assembly. I will vote against this proposal because I think that the debate on human resources policy and the obvious is unjustifiable. This is what some people know and are in pain because the recruitment practice in Slovenia is changing. I will vote against the debate on staffing, because I do not want to see this practice as it has been in the past four years. I will vote against such a debate because I do not want people in key positions to be afraid, as they were in the past mandate, in particular the fear of what political options they belong to, which, of course, has affected the motivation of people in their work. I will vote against this because I firmly believe that the new human resources policy brings mainly a lot of expertise among people. I don't want to divide people into yours and ours. No matter who was named, I don't want to follow their membership card. I believe that someone who was appointed to a responsible place was also from different political options, but I wouldn't want to trouble you with that. I do not want to put outside the lists of people who have been appointed anywhere, and I also want to confront them with the fact that the political options are, as some do. I don't think it's the right time. I think it is high time that we value people according to their expertise, regardless of which political options they belong to. We started doing this. I suggest you follow us and adopt a new human resources policy in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u336	If ever, today is the time for Slovenia to combine all its powers, knowledge and talents to survive these difficult times and take advantage of these difficult times as our opportunities. And these challenges facing Slovenia must unite and not disunite Slovenia. After this discussion, I understand the proposal as a means of disuniting, as an attempt to re-share ourselves into yours and ours and which, at every other point, puts in the optics of our reflection topics that are not real themes. And questions that are not the right questions, while people in these difficult times also ask us the right answers because they are losing their jobs or if their job is at risk. I believe in a new human resources paradigm. But I allow a mistake to happen. That in individual cases it was different than I would have liked, but I trust in Prime Minister Borut Pahor that with the new human resources paradigm he wants to show what is today the key challenge of Slovenia. And that is, if we want to be stronger tomorrow, if we want to ensure social security for people, better jobs and better prospects for the Slovenian economy, culture, sport and other activities, we must stop this harmful practice of disunity. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u338	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of the debate. I don't deny that there are procedures, governments, that they're not legal or that they're legal. That's not what I object to. They're just doing what's right under the law. However, I object to the fact that these procedures do not go as predicted by the new human resources paradigm. For two and a half years, we have listened to how they are going to happen or not to change in important places in public administration, supervisory councils, companies, Directorates. And this new human resources paradigm, despite the fact that the President of the Government claims otherwise, does not take place as foretold. At that time, for several months this government was staffed, almost 100 persons were replaced, all qualified, all educated, and none of them were replaced in accordance with the new human resources paradigm, none. All were resolved before the end of the term of office, of course, the moment someone was dismissed, his mandate expired, we all understand that, but they are going on differently. Nor did it have appointments or ensured that the opposition could have one third in the supervisory councils in companies where the State has significant stakes. It's gone. It's the only government in the world after independence that doesn't guarantee it. All of Drnovskov's governments, Bajuk's government and former Prime Minister Janša's government ensured this. This government is the first one to clean up radically and does not provide and does not allow a third in the supervisory councils. It also brings out the opposition from all public control. It is therefore necessary to discuss this in order to make these comparisons, to see whether the President's claim is true or ours and, therefore, to support this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivo Wiggle has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u340	Dear Mr. President. The former government has never announced its paradigm in the field of human resources. But she did four years in a way that made this paradigm very clear and very clear. Very many people have been placed in an angle, very many institutions have been headquartered, and in very many institutions of national importance, heads have been planted, which do not belong there, not according to qualifications, formal or declared interest. You probably know about some of the people I'm talking about. The most recent case I have learned is the fact that 147 authorised ministers are currently employed at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of that country. You have just heard, 147 authorized ministers, in a job that would be required by normal standards, say, 15 to 20 people in such a rank. All of you have been installed by the Government in, say, a positive tsunami of bringing your own personnel, while there is still time for positions that are most often lacking neither qualifications nor knowledge. I think there is a need to discuss this issue of staffing in the National Assembly. I think that this is an important ethical issue highlighted by the fact that we have limited human resources and will always have them. This is an extremely important question. The Prime Minister made a prediction that apparently would be difficult to keep. I think he has taken a step too far in good faith to be able to achieve a more humane and different, more positive approach in human resources policy. But the way you are [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u342	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll vote against it because I don't think psychoanalysis belongs in the National Assembly. And that would be pure psychoanalysis, or looking in the mirror, where the proponents of this proposal would actually see themselves, because there is all that they have been doing for four years, and now they want to project it to the current government. I don't argue, I explain my voice. The fact is that we cannot vote for something that is forgotten that there has been systematic political recruitment in the previous term. Let me just mention the case of my own congregation. The former government there was politically recruiting at the highest levels, such as at the top of Luke Koper a member of the SDS, and at the summit of Inter-European, also a close associate of the previous prime minister. Today we know the state of these companies, everyone knew that this political recruitment was leading directly to destruction, but no one was reacting at the time. Let's not talk about Hit, let's not talk about Cobile Lipica and so on. In short, there are many such cases. And if I continue where Comrade Wygel stopped, in diplomacy itself. In the previous term, we witnessed the appointment of an ambassador who was found not to have had an adequate education, but had to be appointed politically and sent to Argentina, despite the fact that Argentina had not given it for seven months and had postponed it by consensus. That was all, and that is why we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u344	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against, in the hope that the President of the Government will replace, as soon as possible, all the incompetent personnel that have been drawn anywhere, from the Government to the ministries and to all the businesses where people have worked in fear, because they have, of course, been intimidated. And I hope that Borut Pahor will do everything in accordance with the rules and good practice in these four years so that people will work peacefully and carefreely and enjoy their business. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u346	Thank you very much. I will vote against it for several reasons. The first reason is one which, in my opinion, I think has been defined perfectly by my colleague, Matevž Frangež, so the fact that this is not a real topic, that this is not a topic that unites, is a topic that is shared and added to this is a topic that will not contribute in any way to the better future of our society. Second, because I think this is a bluff. If we compare the USB key, I will find, with the policy of the previous government, that lists should be written on a whole series of large archival hard drives, because probably there would not be enough space on one USB key. And there's one more thing. This list we're talking about is a bluff in itself. The names that are placed there, I can tell by themselves, are wrongly placed, by mistake and actually represent a lie. For example, number 66 contains a person who was a member of the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for student issues because he was president of a student organisation. When he was no longer president of the student organization, he was, of course, completely normal. He agrees with that. It's not normal that if there's no president, he's still sitting. And now the new president of the student organization is sitting in his place. There's a lot of these cases. So I conclude that basically the whole story is a big bluff and it deserves nothing but a voice "against". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u347	Thank you very much. I'm asking you again. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u348	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against it, although I must say that I am very moved to be in favour. In order to have this debate in this House and to face whether political recruitment is actually taking place under this government or to have this counter finally examined and determined whether or not this counter shows people, I have not yet looked at it by its names, which may not be professionally appropriate. I don't know when we'll really be able to recruit professionally in this country. But the previous government certainly didn't do it, whether you say it a thousand times or you mean it. Dozens and dozens of people with theological education sit around various ministries. Is that the case?Oh, my God! More than 10 people, for example, who are locally connected to the place where the minister was staying, have received a job at the Service for Local Self - Administration. Is that the case?Oh, my God! There is so much confusion that by somehow turning the pointer against this government, you are primarily defending yourself from all that you have done in your mandate. And our president has already said that it would be good if the counter were adjusted to maybe count the billions and billions of euros that were spent by the personnel that were actually set up very politically on your part, in the Intereuropa, in the Drava Power Plants, credits, in fact on the Electric segment, we can barely see the likely stories. In Eles, where Canadian rowers were financed, there was a football club in the third league, out of our money, and they were cheerfully inducing electricity. And above all, there was also one of your ministers, who today is full of mouths, a little bit not for the Nobel Prize for Economics. Maybe now we should point this finger somewhere else.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u350	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will have an explanation of vote for as long as I would like to have written down in the Rules of Procedure in the future. I will vote against it mainly for the reason that I think that those who win elections can also choose to implement the programme at all levels, both at the state and at the local level. I say it from my own experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u352	Thanks again for saying that. I believe it's hard for some people to talk about these things. But I agree that this moment is a difficult time, and it is necessary to join forces. If those who now run this country wanted to truly join forces, then they would accept our proposed development partnership with both hands. But that didn't happen. See, in the previous term, it was the recruitment when, for the first time in public administration, the number of employees had actually decreased. First of all, since we've had this. And when I said before, you need to pool your strengths and actually choose the best. But what could be better than this frame that was in the previous government? [[A laugh in the hall.]] You can laugh. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u353	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u354	The previous government reached the European Union, I said earlier, and you were pale after 7% economic growth, and your government with your staffing came to a negative 4% point. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u355	Mr. Robert Croat, please don't mess with the other side. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u356	I hope you're aware of your responsibility. Blefu, the bluff was the promises of the current mandate holder, Mr Pahor. It was just a bluff. He was saying, "I was at the trial when he said clearly and loudly, "I won't let you be able to take a shot past professionalism. I won't let the staff change people who have proven to be good." It's changing on the average. We're at number 85. Let's have this debate. What are you afraid of?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u357	Mr. Croat, don't ask, because they can't answer. Thank you very much. I conclude the explanation of vote on my own behalf. I'll schedule a break in 10 minutes. Meet me at 5:16. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u358	We continue with the interrupt and the session. I ask you to take your seats, because we will proceed immediately to the vote. We're voting. There are 40 Members present. I'm guessing the assembly isn't concluded. We will re-vote. We're voting. 41 Members are present. The assembly is not adjourned. We will continue the vote in 10 minutes. That's 5:27. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u359	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! Continue with the interrupted point and the suspended session. Please take your seats because we are coming directly to the third vote. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 40. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Zmaj Jelinčič Plemenite, the assembly will decide on the following proposal: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, to the question of Mr Zmaj Jelinčič Plmenite concerning the production and sale of generic medicines. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 40. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Marijan Pojbič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, to the question of Mr Marijan Pojbič, on the question of building a home for the elderly. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u360	Dear Mr. President! Since I was not satisfied with the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs' response, I also proposed a broader debate on these issues, which I have put to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. I am very disappointed that the Minister for the Answer to this question has spent a few minutes. I'm sure in those few minutes he didn't have a chance to explain everything I asked him. But that's not the most important thing yet. Most importantly, the answer to the question was not as substantively formulated as it was expected to answer those fundamental questions and the fundamental problems faced by those waiting in line to get to bed in a nursing home. I have asked the Minister three key questions, which I will repeat once again. First question: What are the measures of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in 2009 in the area of home building for the elderly? Second question: What is the long-term strategy of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs on building a home for the elderly? And third question: What is your view of the public-private partnership in building a home for the elderly? I have not received concrete and qualitative answers to all these three questions. It follows from the budget's balance sheet that the items dedicated to building a home for the elderly are reduced in one item by even half a million euros. I personally assess, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that things are not going in the right direction here and that there are no positive effects in the direction that we could expect to see the network of homes for the elderly to expand from public resources, as most of the parties in the position promised in the pre-election campaign. Since we are assessing in the Slovenian Democratic Party that things are not going in the right direction, we are proposing to this High Council to hold a broader debate on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u361	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 40. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Ms Katarina Kresal to the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak on the results of police work in the field of organised and economic crime. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I'm asking you to sign up. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u362	Thank you very much. I was particularly interested in priorities in the question. There were very few of us in this room, so I will briefly try to repeat the matter. As I said or asked in my question, the Minister, in particular, asked me how many times she is in her mandate and how she applies Article 2 of the Police Act or Article 2a, b, c and c, which gives her the opportunity and the right to direct and set the priorities of the police without interfering with individual segments. In the past period, the Ministry of the Interior, in particular in 1997, had some unusual priorities. As I said at about the same time, the worst murder occurred in Tekačev, and at about the same time, some significant violations of public order and peace or attempts to violate public order and peace, in which the former Deputy Prime Minister and Mr Ivan Zidar have fought verbally. The case in Tekačev was dealt with by high school criminals, and it is no wonder that they wrote down the number of the copat 43 instead of 42. That is why we are still dealing with the unsolved case and that Christian Stonenik [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u363	I'm asking for your attention and peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u364	is not found guilty in that procedure and the procedure is open. [[...]] While that violation of public order and peace was being dealt with by criminals at the state level, at the highest level, which is perfectly normal, it should be dealt with by some rookie police officer, a beginner criminalist and so on. However, things have changed considerably during the mandate period of the past governments. Previously, different legal bases have been laid down so that police can take on a higher level and tasks of lower-level police units, so that more serious crimes can be dealt with by those with more knowledge at the highest levels. This was also known relatively in the past mandate period by criminal investigation. Crime investigation has increased to approximately 48%, more specifically from almost 39% to 48%. And we have witnessed some important crimes being investigated, including the well-known tower in Brnik, where we know that according to the data at the time it cost 16 million, and according to new data it will be about 9 million. I wanted to say that the police can help with their effective work there as well. Over the last period [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] However, priorities are re-set. [[...]] I have found that it is simply not possible to detect the right priorities, so I have requested this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u365	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 41. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Visiak will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Francet Križanič, to the question of mags. Andrej Visiak in connection with the construction of the Termoelectrica Šostanj. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. In my own name. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u366	Thank you very much. I'll be brief too. I think that such a decision or a different decision in the light of this proposal is virtually irrelevant, because today the National Assembly has voted on the Government's reply to the question by Ambassador Franz Bogovic. Although I will support my proposal, even if it is not supported, the space in that debate will also be sufficient for this content, which is an integral part of the broader topic proposed in that debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u367	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 42. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ivan Grill, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Borut Miklavčič, Minister of Health, to Mr Ivan Grill's question on the granting of public authority to the Chamber of Physotherapy Services of Slovenia. On behalf of the Group of Members, please apply.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u368	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u369	First report, Mr. Grill. Mr Ivan Grill has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u370	Thank you so much for saying that. Yesterday's question that I asked Minister Miklavčič about the conflicts that are now very prominent in the Slovenian space between the Chamber of Physio-therapeuticians of Slovenia and the Society of Physio-physicianists, which harms the users of these services and also this profession, I regret that the Minister has not answered the questions which I think are very important and which could also lead to the resolution of this conflict. We know that the Ministry has granted a public mandate to the Chamber of Physiotherapists of Slovenia, whose president is Mrs Frederica Kresal, who also owns a company called Vita San, which conducts education, which provides for licensing points for maintenance and also for the award of a concession. Here it is in a privileged position, charging services very different, especially to non-members of this Chamber, and this is significantly more expensive than ever. However, we know that this mandate has been given unlawfully because the Chamber does not meet the criteria, namely that it would have 60% of the membership of physiotherapists in Slovenia. In this regard, it would be very necessary to have information from the Ministry, but we did not get how many members of physiotherapists are in Slovenia at all, what he will do when it is determined or if he initiates a process to determine the actual number of members of the Chamber, whether he will officially initiate a process of determining responsibility, because it is obvious that the physical therapists' chamber has made a false statement on its membership; why the Ministry of Health has not complied with the request of the Association of Physicotherapists to look into the file or in that documentation, and it has only done so for the intervention of information agents. And what I think is extremely important is whether the Ministry of Health will withdraw the powers of the Chamber of Physiotherapists of Slovenia once it is established that they do not have the necessary criteria, that is 60% of this membership. I think that these answers would also help the Ministry of Health, so that somehow [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u371	Dear colleague Grill, please, if you finish slowly. The timer didn't catch you because you didn't shut yourself down when you got involved. After manual measurements, it's been three minutes. Please complete your explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u372	Thank you very much. I'll finish, and then I'll give up the explanation on my own behalf. I think that such a debate would be for the benefit of the ministry and also the Slovenian public, especially the physiotherapists, in order to determine the actual situation and the situation, in particular to find a solution to this Gordy knot, which is now burning, also being resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-03-31-SDZ5-Redna-04.ana.u373	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 41. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. I also interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue tomorrow, on Wednesday, April 1st, at 9 p.m. Thank you very much and very much.
